ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u1	I would like to welcome all those present in the Chamber and, of course, the Secretary of State for Finance. Before I give him the floor, I assume there is a point of order from Mr Van Dijck.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u2	Yes, Mr President, on a point of order. I read at the ANP that there have been many meetings in back rooms, that the Christian parties have been exchanged for D66 and that there is even consultation with the CDA. I would like a statement or a letter from the Secretary of State whether there is a deal on the Tax Plan and whether the Tax Plan can count on a majority in the First Chamber before midnight. Otherwise we will not have to debate something for which there is no majority here until midnight.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u3	Mr Bashir, on this point of order too?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u4	It has also come to my group's attention through the media that discussions have indeed taken place in back rooms. That's why I also like to get an update on the state of affairs. Then we know what we are talking about. We can then go straight to the core and debate it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u5	It is now getting very shady in what condition we are now talking to each other and what there is and what not to do with agreements. I also need some explanation. This can be done in the form of a letter, but also a statement by the Secretary of State or by the coalition groups.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u6	I'm full of my mouth, too. I would also like that clarification. I agree with the requests.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u7	There are all kinds of confusing reports and therefore I think it would be good if the Secretary of State indicated at the beginning of his speech whether there was a deal with one or more parties. That is what everyone is waiting for, and it seems logical to me that the Secretary of State should start with that. That's way faster than a letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u8	I agree with Mr Dijkgraaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u9	I'm looking at the Secretary of State. I ask him first to answer the question of whether there is anything to report, whether there is news or something to confirm, whether he considers it necessary to suspend first or whether he is ready to answer the questions that were asked yesterday.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u10	Mr. Chairman. I don't see the background to the word "schimmig." I said here a few weeks ago that in my profession I talk to everyone except those who don't want to talk to me. That has not changed, not even since we left each other here. I don't know what a back room and an front room is, but I haven't changed my behavior lately. I leave the messages to the media and I leave it to the parties here to report which parts of what they support and do not support. This does not fool anyone behind the back and certainly not democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u11	Mr Van Dijck, this is a point of order. At your request, the Secretary of State has said that he has nothing to say about what is important for the debate we are about to have. You have a second point of order?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u12	Yes, because the Secretary of State says nothing has changed since we broke up last night at 11:45 p.m. In the media it says that consultations have been held with the CDA, D66, the coalition party summit and Mr Rutte and Mr Dijsselbloem. In other words, there have been many consultations and the Chamber is entitled to transparency. What was exchanged during these consultations and what was the outcome? Is there a deal or not? That is the crucial question. The Secretary of State also has to say it if there is no deal. That's also in the media. Because then it goes to the First Chamber unchanged and then he gambles it on. The question is, does he take the chance or did he sound like he did?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u13	The point of order is that you are not satisfied with the statement just made by the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u14	Yesterday, we had a wide-ranging debate with each other. Then we broke up around 11:45 p.m. Now we read in the media that there have been several consultations, while the consultation is now starting and could have happened here. But it didn't happen here; it was discussed elsewhere. That's why it would make sense if we got an update now. What's been discussed? Who's been spoken to? What's decided?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u15	I assume that after these two minutes, the Secretary of State will not be able to make a statement other than the statement he has just given. I have given you the opportunity to respond to it. A lot of questions were asked yesterday to the Secretary of State regarding what is on the agenda. That is why I propose that the Secretary of State should simply start by giving his answers and his response to the contributions of the various Members of Parliament. The Secretary of State has indicated that he will do this in cubes. I see that Mr Van Dijck has another point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u16	You pass my point of order. I'd like to know from the Secretary of State if there's been any consultation today and with whom. The Secretary of State has just said that nothing has changed after last night and that no consultation has taken place. Then the message in the media doesn't make sense or the Secretary of State is lying here. One of them is true. I'd like to know if there's been any consultation and who. What was that about and what was the outcome of the consultation? You don't call that passing, and you say start, Secretary of State, because I take it you don't want to answer. You'll accept that as chairman, but I'd like to hear it from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u17	I have indicated that, at your request, the Secretary of State has just issued a brief statement addressing both the issue of consultation and the question of whether or not there is any news to report and whether or not he wants to respond to the issues in the media. He has responded to both points. I conclude that the point of order is satisfied and that the Secretary of State can now reply to all the other questions he has not answered. We invited him here to do this. I do have a request to the Secretary of State. If there is any news at any time that will be outside the Secretary of State, because he is standing here, then the Chamber will want to know as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u18	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u19	I give the floor to the Secretary of State for his first answer. There are a number of cubes. I ask you all to give the Secretary of State an opportunity to answer questions first. Then I'll give you all the space to ask all the questions you have. This is how I try to get a little structure into the debate. I hope we can hold this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u20	Mr. Chairman. Let us then take away the last swim of shadowiness by saying that I, like yesterday, am looking for support for a tax reduction and that all the parties are equally nice to me. I thank the spokesmen for their sincere speeches yesterday. This Tax Plan is also about the major political questions. I hear the message every now and then that many of the people who are here would rather come out of it than not. Let me begin with a number of things that bind the spokesmen in this Chamber. What binds many is a desire for relief and lower labour costs. I've identified the wedge as the revolving door criminal of the labour market. I have heard in many speeches that not only the wedge should be reduced, but also that the Netherlands needs a reduction in charges. That would be the first time in years. The economy is growing and therefore it seems fair for households to benefit from this. Without the 5 billion, the image doesn't look pretty in every respect. I would say to Mr Dijkgraaf, for example, that without the 5 billion, the single-earners with children will lose no less than 1%. I say to Mr Krol that without the 5 billion, the elderly will lose 1%. Many here also welcome employment growth. Not everyone supports the way this happens. That's right. Not everyone attaches the same importance to the results of the CPB. That's okay, too. However, I have not heard anyone say, not even Mr Dijkgraaf, that the economy is not important. I haven't heard anyone say women have to go to the kitchen sink or stuff like that either. I hear a shared and sincere desire to stimulate the economy and employment, although not everyone agrees with the way this is done. As good politicians, you all want more, but that does cause a problem. What one wants more, the other wants less. As a member of the cabinet, I say that we want to be with you, but you don't want to be with each other yet. Wherever we go, employment growth remains an important condition, because a 5 billion reduction without a significant employment effect has not, of course, come about. That is why I will continue to seek acceptable compromises here. We will not be able to reach a precise conclusion on the cabinet's proposal. That's a big deal. Not responding to the cabinet's proposal is precisely the function of this company. If we were always to come up with exactly the cabinet proposal, you might not have been needed, but you are sitting here to ensure that it deviates from the cabinet's proposals on the points of acceptance. So far, so good. One of the most important points, perhaps the most important point, is that of the breadwinners. I shall begin with this major discussion. I do not participate in the big words and again, but both positions were, in my opinion, well-founded, sincere and perfectly legitimate. This is politics with a big P and this has to be political too. I think this is very orderly and I respect all the points of view. I have been asked to reflect once more on how the cabinet looks at it. I will. At the end of the day, I will point out that the cabinet itself has different views in this area too, looking for the margins within which these other views could also be facilitated. We've seen all kinds of household equations. All those effects that came back in those equations actually amounted to three simultaneous social movements that had been deployed several years ago. None of these movements are particularly related to this Tax Plan. There is not much change in all these movements in this Tax Plan, but the accumulation of these three social movements goes too far for many of you. The first movement is irretrievably an individualisation of the tax system. This movement has been deployed some time ago and is reflected in a phase-out of the transferable general tax rebate, so that each taxpayer individually experiences his tax rebates and his individual progressivity. This was deployed in 2009. Of course, it is not the case that we individualise the tax system and that society must follow it. It's the other way around. In society there is a demand for a more individual approach and the tax system follows. The tax system is very often not at the forefront of social developments. Nor should it be, the system must follow the choices of society. The choice of an individual, in this case for example between family care, voluntary work and paid work, is not one that the government has to make for people, but the government must not, therefore, taxly slow down the choice of paid work. The increase in the employment rate of women has led to greater economic independence with also greater self-reliance, even after possible separation. This call for more individual tax treatment is simply part of a broader social trend and it was there rather than the phasing out of that double general tax rebate. I can talk about this with some passion. I was raised with this. As little boys, my brother and I read the Side when it was still in black and white and so wasn't glossy yet. That's the idea I was raised with. That was big for 2009 when the so-called countertop subsidy was discussed. So that is the first trend, the individualisation, a social trend that has existed for a long time. The second trend is the fight against poverty falls or in some cases against part-time falls. Not so long ago it was unattractive for single welfare parents to go to work. In some cases, they had less left, a negative hourly wage. Not a bad word about caring for children or volunteering, but this poverty trap has little to do with freedom of choice. With the reform of the child schemes, it has become rewarding for a welfare mother to start working, the fight against the poverty trap. So far, a working partner has hardly been able to go to work. This is the aim of the IACK, which is, moreover, very claused, only for households where younger children are cared for and play a role. That's the second trend. The third trend is of a somewhat more recent date, which concerns the limitation of the budgetary allocation, especially of surcharges. Increases are being reduced very quickly with an increasing income. We have also done this in order to keep the financial hold tight, and that simply creates a high overall marginal pressure. You could do that differently, but a more gradual reduction of the right to surcharges quickly leads to a lot more payment recipients and is also hugely involved in the paperwork. So that's the third social development that comes together here. The greatest effect in all the examples we have seen here is by the way those increases and the progressiveness of the system, and not in the IACK. The order is actually increases and progressive system. By far the majority of the effect already existed and is not due to the Tax Plan. Now they're stacking. That is what they do, and we are against it, also on the basis of the examples that have rightly been put forward by the various spokesmen. However, these instruments are not intended to allow people to make choices that they would rather not make, as some spokesmen suggest. These instruments are meant to prevent people from abandoning choices they would rather make. They make it possible for people to make choices that would otherwise be unattractive to them. Take the IACK as an example. This is not a measure to favour two-earners compared to one-earners, it is a measure to make working for people with children as attractive as for people without children. I'll mention the child arrangements. They are intended to ensure that welfare recipients with children are not penalised for tax once they go to work. And being fiscally punished, that's really marginal pressure! So the term freedom of choice fell. It is not up to the government to make choices for people, but it is therefore not up to the government to make the choice for work more fiscally difficult. Where these effects wring and where not, a little depends on the way you look at them. It also depends a bit on who looks at it. Let me take Mr Dijkgraaf's example. He compares a "2 x 20" household with a "1 x 40" household. The question is whether we should compare a "2 x 20" household with a "1 x 40" household. The comparison is legitimate, not a bad word about it, but without the fiscal incentive Mr Dijkgraaf is talking about, that "2 x 20" household is not a "1 x 40" household but a "1 x 20" household. That's when the income goes down. The term freedom of choice also fell in relation to the 75%. 75% of people wouldn't have a choice. I do not know the investigation, but I do know Mr Dijkgraaf as a reliable supplier of facts. So I'm going to go up to 75%. The people with chronically ill children are not the majority of those 75%. Who would that be? According to Mr Dijkgraaf, these are people who cannot find work. The reasoning then is: those people have no choice; why saddle them with an incentive if they don't have that choice? That's a bit of a snake biting its tail. This policy, through supply impulses, creates jobs. It is strange to decide not to stimulate employment, because people cannot find a job. The idea of this plan is precisely to boost employment and thus ensure that more people can get a job and get to work. All this on a stick does make many in this room feel that it does rub off in some examples. Let's establish that. Those who do not only implement individualisation in taxation, but also tackle the poverty trap and also keep the whole thing affordable and quickly reduce surcharges, work out situations in which it sheds but sometimes also creates situations in which it sheds. The fact that it is almost always sanding somewhere in taxation is probably not denied by anyone. I think the examples have also given many the idea that if it sheds somewhere, it is here. I've just gone over the social benefits. How these advantages should be weighed against the disadvantages is different for each party. A clear voice has been heard here from spokesmen in which sanding was heavier than shining. Let me just call it that. How are we supposed to look at that? I gave the message earlier, namely last Monday, that the cabinet is still willing to go along with measures to mitigate these effects. I'll never stop until there's a deal. Yes, the job effect remains decisive. The cabinet understands that sacrifices are being made, but a 5 billion package without significant employment growth is not conceivable. Where's this going? Every year, it is a tradition that has existed for half a century and we are talking about purchasing power figures here. This year, too, this is the case. This year, too, there has been significant purchasing power repair in many areas. In the long term, there are other things that can help us out of sanding or that can ease the sanding in these examples, for example a further reduction in the burden on labour. We have, of course, greatly increased the burden on labour. Let us acknowledge that. It was necessary and it happened. Very high on my wish list are lower burdens on labour and everyone at work, but at the very top are solid public finances. We've all seen what happens if you don't have it in order. In the long term, if the economy is to recover, if we can get people back to work, that economy will grow again and we must be able to further reduce those burdens on labour. All kinds of reform measures are conceivable. The higher the burden on labour, the more serious effects on all kinds of households and the more it is sanding. The cabinet is open to sensible and responsible measures to address them, but ultimately we must all strive for lower labour costs. This reduces the burden on labour and reduces the pressure. As far as the amendments are concerned, I will make as many suggestions as possible for a way of achieving manageable results. I should like to say quite frankly that employment plays an important role in this. Mr Bashir specifically asked about the purchasing power of the minima. The purpose of the 5 billion package is no secret. That is employment and economic growth. The purchasing power of the minima is supported by an increase in the care allowance and the rent allowance. So the minima aren't going backwards next year. A fairly large purchasing power repair has also been carried out for the elderly in 2016. But the cabinet continues to insist that work is the best way out of poverty. The best way is work. Work not only helps those who go to work, but also the economy as a whole. And that's how we help each other. Mr Bashir also asked about the effect of spending. On the one hand, he is right, because as incomes are lower, the extra income is spent to a greater extent and saved to a lesser extent. This means that, in the short term, it can indeed have a positive effect on spending. On the other hand, the long-term plans lead to more inactive people. The difference between working and not working is getting smaller and ultimately it will affect job growth.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u21	I think we are past the stage of having all kinds of discussions about this one-earner. We have done so in detail in the legislative consultation. I appreciate the words of the Secretary of State, whom I interpret positively, that there is indeed a gap between one earner and two earners. We are still a little different in the tone of the words, but we will still have debates after this debate in order to bring them closer together. The key question is, of course, what are we going to do? The Secretary of State says he's about to deal with the amendments. Does he do that at the end of his first term? I'd really appreciate that. Otherwise, I'd like him to go into it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u22	It seems to me best to do so on the basis of the amendments. I also think it would be best if the amendments were dealt with in order. Otherwise, we'll all get terribly confused. I'll try to make some suggestions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u23	But you will do so before the end of your first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u24	I'll do that within this time limit. When exactly that is and how it relates to the break, it is entirely up to the President. I'm just curious how it's gonna go. Mr. Chairman. The same applies, of course, to the elderly, because without the 5 billion package, older people would lose 1% on purchasing power. There has been a fairly large purchasing power repair, partly on the basis of the figures in August. No one has the monopoly on the call for it, but the call was broad and the cabinet also called for itself. That purchasing power repair has therefore been done and is proportionate when it comes to 2016; it is therefore a proportional share in the 5 billion. At the end mild, but at first a few harsh words fit. It is not just about purchasing power development but also about equal tax treatment for older people and other Dutch people. We have, of course, experienced a number of income effects, not the additional burden on the elderly, but the more equalization of the tax treatment of the elderly with other Dutch people. This has happened, for example, with the income-dependent contribution, which is also paid for workers. Moreover, older people still have a comparative advantage. Also with the elderly allowance in box 3, the commitment was of course to treat older people equally with other Dutch people; not to treat them worse but the same. The sustainability contribution I am referring to is the second disc and the limit for it is the same example. It is not just a question of purchasing power development; it is also a question of equal tax treatment. There's been a trade-off. Secondly, it is not just about sharing prosperity but also about building prosperity. The scope for AOW, pension, exists only in the grace of economic growth and employment in working age. Today's workers are the elderly of later, and the elderly of today were the workers or the workers of the past. The cabinet's commitment is to give as many elderly people as possible the opportunity to build up prosperity in the working phase of life. It is precisely at that stage that prosperity must be built up: by building up pension, by building up wealth, or by simply having a damn good life at that time; these are individual choices. Every older person ever came through that other phase of life, and most of the workers are ever getting old again. Nor should we see this as a contradiction, but it makes sense to keep people in the busiest but also most productive phase of life away from work as little as possible and not to slow them down. That is the building up of prosperity and not the sharing of it. However, the firm call for purchasing power repair in August has been answered for 2016. Further steps seem to me in all honesty complex in financing. I am open to everything and I am looking for support, but I have to say that the queue for the cash counters is getting longer and that the wishes of those in line are also growing. So it does compete for budget, I'm just saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u25	When we look at the old-age discount, we have to see that the differences between the people who work and the people who have worked hard are only getting bigger now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u26	This is not the case in the harmonization of tax treatment. Now, more than before, there is a tax system that applies to everyone, to older people as well as to working Dutch people. If you get to choose where you want to have the tax benefits in your life before you're born, I think it might be the other way around and you might want to have the benefits in the busiest but also the most productive phase and not in the later phase. Now we don't have the chance, perhaps we don't know for sure either, to be born again and make this choice, but if you think for future generations, you can say that in the course of life you have more to be stimulated at the stage in which you build up prosperity than at the stage in which you build up the prosperity that you have built up.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u27	But the people who work now can still do anything, while the people who are now retired can no longer change anything. And they are now hit by a discount.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u28	A lot has been written about that. I believe that an ibo report from 2013 provides a more nuanced picture of that. But Mr Krol knows that image. We both know it, so we're not discussing it right now. My point is that there has been a very explicit review of purchasing power development for 2016, but that in the end it is also about tax differences and about life-long prosperity building rather than just the distribution of wealth. There are still several questions concerning the elderly. Mr Omtzig asked for transitional rights for the elderly allowance, especially with regard to the rent allowance, because that is the main point. The drop in the elderly allowance has a very small impact on a lot of older people. This is just the box 3 payment. On a very limited number of older people the estimate is 5,000..... it has a greater impact, because for those older people the rent payment could be dropped. In this case, too, I say that this already applies to other Dutch people, because it is a rental surcharge limit that already exists for other Dutch people. So the advantage for the elderly is gone. This was done in the context of the coverage of the household allowance. You can indeed discuss a transitional arrangement. However, the transitional right would be complicated. In order to meet this requirement, you must have been entitled to the rent allowance in 2015. You won't know that until 2016, because that's impossible to determine for that time. That transitional right cannot therefore be granted in advance. You also have to meet the condition that in 2016, without a transitional right, you were also entitled to that rent allowance and that that right was only abolished because of the shifting of that border and not because of other causes. And that is of course only known in 2017. So it's going to be a very complicated arrangement. The Tax Administration has studied it, because Mr Omtzigt is not the first to ask for it, also within the Cabinet of course this point has been raised. It should be arranged through a manual process at the Tax Administration, which I expect to be as successful as the process that had to be done in the autism at some point. There, the old-timer control had to be performed manually. This has become a very limited success, which has led to very high implementation costs. The introduction of this transitional right is therefore a process which would be difficult for the Tax Administration to implement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u29	In my question I referred to the Verburg/Weekers amendment (29765, No. 13) from 2005. After all, until 2005 there was not only a supplement in box 3 for elderly people but also for single parents. That supplement was abolished at the time, but single parents who were then entitled to a rent allowance have retained that right for a number of years. As far as I know, that hasn't been a manual process. Anyway, it was a little earlier in the year. How come it could have been then, but now it's going to get bogged down in a manual process? After all, this group is easy to identify, because you can see in the attack whether someone was above the box 3 border or below. That's got to be automatic, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u30	That wasn't the judgment of the IRS. But the parallel that Mr Omtzigt draws is interesting. He's actually asking what the differences between the two groups are. What were the intrinsic differences in problems and whether it was done manually at the time, I will check again. I know it's been looked at, but I have to say honestly, I can't say it out of my head right now. But the question is good and I will come back to it in a later period. Finally, on this point, Mr Klein asked for a reply to the letter from the joint elderly organisations. Older people's organisations argue that older people do not share proportionate burden relief. They look at the overall median purchasing power development, but not at the share in the 5 billion. I see Mr Klein nodding; he seems to know that difference. What else can I say? I have answered the further questions about the elderly. There has also been a lot of discussion about greening. All sorts of measures have come along. Some of the measures also come through in the form of amendments. I will briefly comment on it, but not specifically pass the amendments. The first is a slide to balance gas and electricity more. Let me stress once again that I think this is a smart proposal for two reasons. Firstly, it is actually saving. If more balance is added, there will be real physical savings opportunities, such as the use of heat pumps for home heating, within reach. So that's useful. We are going to consume less primary energy and get less CO emissions. The second thing that is important is that non-ETS volume is also brought under ETS. The ceiling does its job there. I'm not entirely uncomfortable with the ETS system. The patient can be improved, but it is essentially a good system. If a non-ETS volume is used under ETS, you are, on balance, completely avoiding the original emissions. That makes this smart. It is not the difference between energy consumption, but the whole of CO emissions is avoided by moving to another box. I've presented a direction of thought that I didn't think was entirely unruly. We are talking about an increase in gas of nearly 800 million and a reduction in electricity of more than half a billion. The gross revenue was around 230 million, I believe, and after a backlock of companies, the net revenue was 100 million. It is, of course, up to the parties themselves to dimension their amendments, but I have given them this direction of thought. I think it's an energetic environmental point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u31	I have literally put that into an amendment that I have also tabled. Does this mean that the Secretary of State is now saying that he is embracing that amendment? That would be a clear and clear response.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u32	I'm just checking whether it's going right along those lines, but I've just been pretty sympathetic about that amendment. I will pass the amendments. That allows me, if what Mr Grashoff says is true, a second moment to be lenient about this matter. We're gonna see that. I had such a pile of amendments that I don't remember them all anymore. I'm gonna need a picture of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u33	The Secretary of State mentioned the householders and the elderly, and in both cases he said: so be it, there is nothing to do about it, that is his choices. However, when it comes to greening, such an amendment by GroenLinks, he is suddenly very positive about it. Does the Secretary of State think he's there with GroenLinks?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u34	I really leave GroenLinks' judgments to GroenLinks. I've given openings in the field of the single-earners. I did that last Monday. I have said that there are, of course, imaginable things for the elderly, but that the queue for the cash counter is long. In the end, it is these Members who are tabling amendments. I'm not filing them and I'm not voting on them. Sometimes you also need to address fellow spokesmen on these matters.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u35	The point is that this Secretary of State clearly does not see the problems and the importance of the gap between the householders and the elderly. He doesn't care about any of that. He's putting the ball down with us. If it's up to him, the elderly stay behind and the breadwinners continue to pay as many times more taxes as singles and two-earners, but he lays the ball down with us. When it comes to energy and energy saving and raising and reducing energy taxation here, he is open to it. In other words, we are standing here talking to the Secretary of State for Energy!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u36	My first proposal was about the breadwinners. Last Monday I tried to outline some sort of thinking direction to do something about those breadwinners. On the contrary, I was able to count on the criticism of some of them, but, as I have said, I have a broad view of the wishes of this Chamber. All parties are equally nice to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u37	I would also like to come back to the problem for the elderly. That problem was very big this summer because they were clearly lagging behind. A solution has now been found, but it is temporary and not structural. You sure there's nothing you can do about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u38	I recognize that. That's true. In my view, the purchasing power repair is extensive, but only covers 2016. That's the way it is. Moreover, we have had a good tradition of very extensive purchasing power discussions for half a century, as this session also proves. I think that in that ritual we surpass many countries. That is when we talk about purchasing power. We have been doing this successfully for half a century. It is always up to the Chamber to decide whether or not it will go along with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u39	I note that 39% of the elderly still stand at zero or in the minority in this purchasing power repair and that these older people must be satisfied with a repair which is not structural.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u40	Mr. Chairman. Several questions have been asked about the possibility of addressing the energy tax rates for large consumers, in particular gas tariffs, possibly combined with an exemption for the metallurgical and mineralogic industries. I have dealt with this earlier and indicated that you should also include a refund scheme for the delta in natural gas. I have sent a letter on this subject indicating that otherwise the playing field will be affected. I've also described what happens when you do it. In my view, this raises serious hesitations, because in the end the effect of the large-scale consumer regime is mainly felt by large parties who are looking for it mainly in heating. These would be education and care institutions, for example. In addition, the necessary hesitations fit in with that on my part. In relation to this point, Mr Grashoff asked whether we could not insist at European level on the abolition of exemptions for mineralogical and metallurgical processes. The idea behind this will undoubtedly have been that you should strive for a level playing field to ensure that everyone or nobody grants that exemption. In doing so, Mr Grashoff implicitly assumed that the playing field is European and not worldwide, but I will leave that alone. We have looked at this, because these sectors are indeed not covered by the Energy Taxation Directive, but may be exempted under the Directive. In order to exclude that exemption, it is necessary to adapt the Energy Taxation Directive. It's possible. We have a great system for that. It is done on the basis of unanimity and only on the basis of a proposal from the European Commission. Such an experiment was carried out in 2011. At that time, an amendment to the Energy Taxation Directive was proposed, which should, among other things, lead to higher minimum rates and less exemptions. It's been negotiated for four years. At that time, the proposal was completely undressed. The people who have dealt with this conclude that the chance of managing this now in a European context seems very small, even because there are others than Mr Grashoff who believe that in some cases this is a global market and will therefore put forward such arguments not to exclude it. So it is simply not very promising, I must say in all honesty. I think I have also responded to Mr Bashir's question about large consumers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u41	I have two questions about the energy tax for large consumers. The Secretary of State states that for that delta on gas, which you would now increase, you should apply such an exemption or refund scheme because of the level playing field. Is he talking about a refund scheme or an exemption scheme? Can it be introduced in 2016 or 2017? My second question concerns the European dimension. Within Europe, a great deal is not possible until it becomes possible at some point. The question is therefore not whether it is viable, but whether there can really be a strong commitment from the Dutch Government in the European context. That's very important. Europe will also be subject to new targets in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u42	It is precisely through this reasoning that proposals are being put forward from all sides and from various policy areas to take things on board in the European Presidency. That list will also be very long. The strategy in Europe is then: do not focus on everything at once, focus on promising things and bring them in. We have received this advice for the Presidency from people who really know this. If this is not a promising case, I don't think it will qualify as a spearhead for the Netherlands. Well, that's sad, but I think this is a real assessment. We in Europe can worry about a very large number of long-term but very few promising routes, but then we will achieve nothing at all. The Netherlands will really have to focus on a number of important things. I could mention a few in the fiscal sphere, and Mr Grashoff is more pleased with that, but the probability of this is not assessed as sufficient.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u43	I asked two questions. The other concerned the refund or exemption scheme in 2016 or 2017.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u44	I don't know the answer to that right now. I will ensure that Mr Grashoff receives an answer. The postal code system has attracted the attention of Mrs Schouten for a long time, but certainly also of Mr Groot, Mr Grashoff and Mr Van Weyenberg. Actually, the question is how does the cabinet feel about that? We thought this was the best plan. The proposal is to comply with the proposal of the chairman of the Energy Agreement Committee to increase the tax benefit from 7.5 to 9 cents. I have said this three times now, but there is a clear wish from the Chamber: that is not enough. If a majority of the House really does not think it is enough and if the chairman of the Committee on Guarantee is a little too economical in the eyes of the various spokesmen, then I have no objection in principle to traveling from rose to caterpillar and from tax benefit to exemption. The budget is limited. If my arguments don't impress me, I'll have to count my buttons at some point. Mr Van Weyenberg, Mr Omtzigt and Mrs Schouten asked questions about the coal tax. The key question is, of course, whether it is wise to re-introduce this exemption from the coal tax. Why is no coal tax paid on coal-fired power stations? Mr Grashoff has joined this key question by Mr Van Weyenberg. The discussion about the implementation of the energy agreement is not always relaxed. The Empire must certainly be the party that keeps its commitments. This appointment is very clear. Whether we are happy about this agreement afterwards or not, will vary from spokesperson to spokesperson. I recognize all that. I can imagine all kinds of versions of that, but the Empire still has a strong desire to keep those agreements. Is that a disaster? Coal and coal plants are entirely covered by the ETS. The coal tax therefore affects the revenue of the Empire, but it does not affect CO2 emissions at European level. So this is a revenue issue. Of course, it is conceivable that we should use this revenue for a sustainability goal. It has no direct impact on emissions at European level. Mr Omtzigt wants to know the probability of a trial. The cabinet and the person responsible do not expect any damages claims. The operators of the five coal-fired power plants which cannot meet the efficiency requirements have already indicated that these plants are not in operation. Mrs Schouten asked if that had been known a long time ago. In the letter, the Secretary of State for Infrastructure and the Environment stated that there was a period of three years between the announcement of the decommissioning of the plant and the time when the final requirement for efficiency came into effect. In the energy agreement, this was also agreed between the parties. Damage claims are therefore not currently expected. In reply to Mrs Schouten's and Mr Omtzigt's questions, I would point out that companies cannot object and appeal against the decision. During the consultation phase, the energy companies did not object to the plan either. That risk is therefore not considered to be significant.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u45	The latter surprises me. The written reply states that they did not raise any objections. I'm not surprised; it's a ministerial arrangement, so they couldn't object.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u46	In the consultation phase.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u47	So there's been a consultation phase?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u48	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u49	Have all these companies been consulted? Have the comments been made public?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u50	At the consultation stage, anyone could register. Therefore, the interested parties have certainly been able to do so. I have to check whether the comments are public.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u51	Normally, they're public. Because we have been looking for this decision for months, as you and the Chamber know, I am committed to seeing it or knowing where I can find it, for example in the second term, so that we really understand how it went.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u52	I'm gonna take a look at it. Mr Omtzig's requests for disclosure are famous, but also sympathetic, I always find. Mr Van Weyenberg, together with Mr Grashoff, raised his hands and asked what was possible when it came to loading posts. I will leave out the whole story that it is already profitable per kilometre, because Mr Van Weyenberg already knows that, and Mr Grashoff can dream it. At least there will be a green deal over 8,000 extra public loading posts. I have stated in several letters that this is currently not in line with European legislation on energy taxation. I indicated that a derogation could be requested. That's possible, but not already. First you have to make something that starts as soon as the request for derogation is granted. I cannot predict how promising things are, because the European Commission and the 28 Member States must agree unanimously. I cannot imagine what a Member State can do against that. Perhaps the Member States think it is just as sympathetic as some spokesmen. That is my answer to the question. We cannot change European regulations on our own. Mr Van Weyenberg is interested in how to proceed with road tolls for heavy goods vehicles. I have replied that the coalition agreement states that we are not going to do this cabinet period, but that the cabinet is going to refer to the literal term "s'. Mr Van Weyenberg has asked whether we are simply joining or actively joining. The default position of the Empire when joining is always active. So that's it. However, the coalition agreement states what is in the coalition agreement, as the energy agreement states what is in the energy agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u53	I assume the Secretary of State is indeed very active. From this, I conclude that, if there was a momentum, the cabinet would not be in opposition mode, but in cooperation mode.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u54	Active is always the standard. Of course, joining is not counterproductive. That would be weird about the Empire. However, the conditions in the coalition agreement are the conditions in the coalition agreement. Those are the preconditions. Furthermore, the Empire is always constructive, cooperative, optimistic, and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u55	So there is not a de facto blockade from the cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u56	The blockade is included in the coalition agreement. It says what can and cannot be done. Some things can't and some things can't. Within what can be done, the Empire can be counted among the constructive interlocutors. A lot of questions about box 3 were answered in writing rather than recently. However, one question has been asked dominantly. I think I almost have to make a statement of faith about this. That question was put by Mr Bashir, by Mr Van Weyenberg, by Mrs Neppérus and by Mr Krol and concerns the pace. The desire of each is to realize the system of taxing actual returns as soon as possible. That is the final picture, knowing that we are making an intermediate step here. I fully share the desire to do so as soon as possible. However, I have become very cautious about promises about things that will undoubtedly be complex in implementation and also have to do with implementation steps that are not within the Tax Administration and are not under the control of the Tax Administration, but with chain partners. There is one thing I have to be harsh about here: I refuse to put the tax administration in trouble by means of rücksichtsloe commitments and ultimately also to put the taxpayer in trouble. My confession of faith is here that I understand the almost right and that I am working on it. I understand that next year we will have another discussion in this Chamber, and that I will have to go on with how, what, where, who, what it costs and how you could do that; perhaps not final, but much clearer. Here too, however, there is a need to do this very carefully in the chain. Mr Omtzigt warned me about the Whale operation, but this could at least be a sperm whale. They're bigger than whales. It could be a disaster. It's gotta be neat. I'm not gonna compromise the IRS and the execution. However, the call for haste is well understood. Mr Bashir has specifically asked whether we are taking the initiative for uniformity in the recording of data by banks. That is, of course, part of the journey. If every bank does this in a different way, I think we're gonna be insane soon. It is therefore necessary to make clear agreements on the protocol, on what data should be provided with which guarantees and on what timing. We are somewhat used to that. I always mention my candidate for the most successful ICT project in the Empire, namely the VIA. In it, huge amounts of data are supplied by huge quantities of chain partners with military precision on a given day in the year. That took years of preparation, but that worked out great. As a result, fewer Dutch people still have to fill in things on their tax bill. I'd like to do the same along those lines. The Dutchman should not be bothered by this but by ease. It must be more honest but at the same time robust and feasible. This was my creed. Mr Groot asked for a reassurance regarding the merger of the Wbso and the RDA. He asked whether the cabinet would be prepared to say that, if there were no ceiling on large exceedances in favour of large companies, this would be compensated by adjusting the scales and so on among the large companies themselves. If Mr Groot means the individual companies themselves, I think he knows that that is not possible. If he is talking about the category of large companies, I would like to give him my word on this. The other questions and proposals within the framework of the Wbso and the RDA are still before me when I come to the amendments. Another question from Mr Groot concerns coordination in primary care and exemption from VAT. It's about the VAT of care groups. Mr Groot is not the first to approach me on this issue, I must admit. Indeed, the issue is that this part of the care is exempt, but that certain services are taxed with VAT by professionalising the cooperation, which actually gives a kind of perverse incentive, an anti-stimulant of cooperation. We are talking here about cooperation of the good kind, not cartel-like cooperation but facility cooperation. Technically, it's possible to arrange that. There is a question of coverage, but I am happy to return it to Mr Groot. So this is indeed possible, it is an issue that is playing, it is being experienced as a problem and I have to admit that it is actually a bit of a weirdness. Mr Van Weyenberg asked about the Sunday Act. I knew there was a flag and banner law, but the Sunday law had passed a little by me. I do not know whether I can give a full answer to his question. I know that the full answer to his question is there, because in a recent letter from Mr Plasterk of 26 October, with great precision and with reference to 100,000 articles of law and figures, the reasons why this bill was withdrawn are justified. I commend this letter to Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u57	The letter was known to me, but my question was of course a very different one. Can the Secretary of State confirm that the search for support for the Tax Plan has in no way played a role in the decision not to withdraw the Sunday Act at the same time, contrary to the wishes of a majority of the Chamber? That is a slightly different question from the one the Secretary of State has answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u58	The fact that this was new to me shows the answer. There is once again a suggestion of a somewhat greater shadowiness than is actually the case. I see this letter for the first time. The Sunday Act had passed a little by me so far. So I didn't involve him in the negotiations on the Tax Plan. Let me put it this way: I already have enough to buy with my own legislative proposals; the Sunday Act does not need to be added to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u59	I just note that the Secretary of State needs a lot of words to say no.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u60	No. I come to the amendments. The pile of amendments is very dynamic. Sometimes I have a version in mind that has changed again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u61	I'm going to look with you, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u62	I am only interfering with the amendments that have been tabled. I say again that I am not interfering with the service of amendments. What's happening there isn't visible to me. I am responding to amendments that I have received as being tabled. Because it is a rather dynamic thing, I sometimes have an older version or I react to something that has now fallen. Before I begin the amendments, I still owe Mr Omtzigt a reply. He says that he notes that these quickscans often say that the change cannot be included in the provisional declaration as it stands. He's wondering what we're gonna do with that. I do not want to take part in the deliberations of the various Members of Parliament, but I have set myself the objective of having at least all the information available to Members of Parliament. In the very recent past, we had the situation that the members of the Chamber were supposed to have judgments on proposals of which they did not really know the implementation aspects. That's undesirable. Now, for democracy, it is in any case possible to consider what timing is possible, what implementation problems and risks there may be and in a single case whatever costs are incurred. However, I am not here to prescribe to Mr Omtzigt how he takes that into account. I think, and we shared that, that he should need that clarity and openness.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u63	I very much appreciate that clarity, but if the Court wishes to change certain percentages, it cannot be properly implemented or can only be corrected by post-tax or refunds at the time of the final assessment. We consider that undesirable. We have often said this to the Secretary of State. We ourselves find it undesirable if we were to cause it. Can the Secretary of State send a timetable with critical limits somewhere in the spring, for example under the Tax Collection Act, which makes it clear when things can be adjusted? Then we can debate in the Chamber the way in which we want to be involved in setting percentages. Now we're almost being put out of business on certain things. Just yesterday, the preliminary declaration went online. You can apply for it now. I understand that the Secretary of State will not wait until the procedure in the First Chamber, because then you will no longer be able to make a preliminary attack. I understand it all too well, but can that timetable be sent here at some point, so that we can discuss at some point in time whether we consider it desirable to intervene earlier on on certain percentages or choices that are being made?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u64	Secretary of State, you've been coughing for a while. But go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u65	I think it's...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u66	I'll just turn off the mic. Then you can cough for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u67	I think it's a very reasonable... There's something in my throat for a second. But that's not this request.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u68	Would you like a glass of water?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u69	Yeah, but I just finished the glass of water. Something is being called, but indeed: what request is there in my throat? Probably the so-called agreement. Mr President, I am going to try to find my voice again. Now comes the uncomfortable part: the amendments. Maybe the microphone can be off for a little while after all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u70	I suggest we suspend for a few minutes. Then perhaps we could get you a cup of tea.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u71	I shall give the floor again to the Secretary of State, who had begun to respond to the amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u72	I shall begin with all the amendments that have gone into the world under Chamber number 34302. The first is the amendment to item No. 7. Is my numbering consistent with yours, Mr. Chairman? I hope the numbering is synchronized. Yes, that's the case. The amendment in part No. 7 (34302) by Mr Omtzigt and Mr Dijkgraaf. It is about the benefits of the interest rebate on staff loans. We've talked about that twice. The second time I've gone so far as to call this a "think error." That will remain the only time in history that I accuse Mr Dijkgraaf of a mistake of thinking...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u73	Is that a promise?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u74	... but I must discourage the amendment for that reason.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u75	The amendment in part No. 7 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u76	I come to the amendment to item No. 8 (34302), by Mr Ronnes. That's about the advance date of the grant exemption's own home. That is not feasible in the short term. That is also argued in writing. The amendment is not covered either, because there is a loss to it. I have to discourage the amendment for that reason. I shall go to the amendment on item No. 10 (34302), by Mr Omtzigt and Mr Dijkgraaf. This is about increasing the rate of gambling tax to 35%. I do not know whether I am sufficiently credible when I say that this is in breach of budgetary rules. I myself spoke the most horrible language about that the other day. This amendment also creates a greater difference in rates between online and land-based. Not only the cabinet, but also the Chamber struggles with that tariff difference. The difference in rates will then be considerably greater. Moreover, it may also negatively affect the value of the companies Holland Casino and State lottery. I have to discourage the amendment for that reason. I have just spoken in detail about the coal tax. That is what Mr Grashoff's amendment is about. 15 (34302). I have just tried to explain why that amendment is not desirable. I therefore advise against the amendment. I come to the amendment to item No. 20 (34302), by Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Dijkgraaf, on the ceiling of the S&D reduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u77	That was first of all the amendment to item No. 14. It's part No. Turned 20, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u78	Clear, yeah. Let me try to be creative with that. My colleague, Mr Kamp and I have tried in many ways to argue that this ceiling is not necessary. This brings me to the title of the amendment, which I reject in substance. At the same time, I can imagine that this amendment could somehow contribute to acceptance. My opinion is therefore: dissuade the substance of the matter. And how the Chamber deals with my judgment "dissuaded in substance," I'd like to leave it to the Chamber. I come to the amendment to item No. 21, over a larger spread...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u79	Mr Dijkgraaf will come back to the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u80	Yes, because you always have to be state-law careful when there's a new kind of government judgment. I do not know exactly what that is: dissuade content, but promote support. We didn't know that judgment yet. I'll consider it a Court of Justice, but I don't know how the Secretary of State sees it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u81	Let me say that 'in substance dissuade' is formally dissuade, but I can imagine that Mr Dijkgraaf interprets it in this way. I don't argue with him either.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u82	But the verdict is: dissuade. We were with the amendment to item No. 21.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u83	The verdict is: dissuade. The amendment in part No. 21 (34302) refers to the grant exemption. That amendment deals with the spread of the period and is financed by the increase in excise duty on smoking tobacco. In the cover is still a small hiccup, because it would be about shag. During the year of import, however, no account has been taken of a certain budgetary loss of the increase in excise duty due to the stockpiling of producers. I should like to leave this amendment to the discretion of the Chamber, but also to comment on it. I can imagine some of this. Coverage is being increased here, and that is never wrong in the process of a tax plan, but I can also imagine that a very long line is in front of the cash counter. It is ultimately up to the spokesmen themselves to see what coverage they link to what spending. But in itself, I leave the judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u84	I would just like to say that an amended amendment is on its way to make the technical point raised by the Secretary of State completely correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u85	Bon. I shall now turn to the Klein amendment to point No. 24 (34302) on the reduction of the hourly criterion and the deduction for research and development work. This change would allow more entrepreneurs to make use of this deduction, but at the same time there are fewer incentives to spend time on research and development work. All things considered, I advise against this amendment. Mr Krol's amendment concerns the re-introducing of the elderly allowance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u86	What is the amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u87	That is the Krol amendment to point No. 27 (34202), which I think is a little brother of the amendment to item No. 33. I understand the amendment, but I have to advise against it. After all, we have just introduced this and this would undo it again. My opinion should not surprise Mr Krol.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u88	I heard you say that this amendment has been discouraged.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u89	Yeah, it's not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u90	I would like to comment on the amendment on the Wbso. This concerns the reduction of the hours criterion for self-employed workers. The Secretary of State has advised against this, as this could lead to a reduced incentive for research and development work. The idea is that there is an increased incentive, because many more self-employed entrepreneurs can meet the hourly criterion, namely not 500 hours but 400 hours. This creates more incentives to actively innovate. Moreover, it should appeal to the Secretary of State that you should never innovate because of the grant, but because you see opportunities and then get a little support in the back.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u91	If you lower the limit values, there are plus and minus effects. Here's the estimate that this will ultimately give a smaller incentive.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u92	I don't think that makes perfect sense. The hourly criterion means that more companies, more entrepreneurs, can join. Well, then that incentive is only higher, isn't it? The companies that now sit at the demand of about 500 hours will simply remain there. They can still participate in this grant. The companies that are below 500 hours cannot participate at the moment, but with the requirement of 400 hours they will be able to participate. So you stimulate the companies that make a lower innovation effort, so between 400 and 500 hours, and encourage other companies, as they do now, to just go on with what they want. This certainly applies to starters; nothing is changed there. They are all actively stimulated to do something. How much do you want, Secretary of State, to be stimulated? Yeah, maybe with a glass of water, but at some point it stops stimulating.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u93	Mr Klein lists the pluses, but there are also mins. There will also be parties motivated by this border to spend 500 hours instead of 400 hours. It just depends on how the hours are distributed. If there's a peak at 500 hours now, it could go to 400. That has been viewed by whoever I believe has been doing this since 1996. It comes to the conclusion that this will eventually lead to fewer hours. That is why I do not recommend the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u94	I would just like to say that the Secretary of State says that I will understand that my amendment is not recommended. I want you to know that I don't understand that. A lot of older people don't understand that either. Above all, they do not understand that this cabinet sees them primarily as an item on which savings can be made and not as people who have had to swallow a lot of acid in recent times. Now that there is finally a sweet distribution, they suddenly don't count anymore. So I don't understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u95	The elderly receive a proportional share of the 5 billion. We have talked about this before. With the amendment in part No. 28 (34302) Mr Bashir and Mr Grashoff proposed a different distribution of the 5 billion reduction package. This leads to a different distribution of purchasing power, which does not contribute to the cabinet's objective of making work more profitable, especially for low and middle incomes. There's a second, quite technical, point. The end point of phasing out the general tax rebate and the upper limit of the third disc are linked in the Tax Plan. Unplugging would mean huge jumps in marginal pressure. That link has not been made in this amendment anymore. As a result, the Tax Administration would stumble over very strange jumps in marginal rates. That is a more technical point, but the main point is that this is less likely to lead to work for low and middle incomes in particular.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u96	The Secretary of State says that this amendment leads to less work for low and middle incomes. The cabinet proposes to raise the limit of the third disc to €66.000. That doesn't benefit the low and middle incomes. This amendment reduces taxes on low- and middle-income people. If they are going to work or are already doing so, they will only benefit more. Can the Secretary of State explain his answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u97	The purchasing power plates and work incentives do not lend themselves to an evaluation from the loose wrist. I will see to it that an answer has been given, not only here behind the cathedral, but also a little more thought. That is what Mr Bashir will get as soon as possible. A serious question gets a serious answer and I'll take care of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u98	In addition, the Secretary of State indicated in his reply the following. The moment the spending effects get bigger and people at the bottom have a little more money, the economy grows faster than people who have more money get a little more. This amendment does not, therefore, merely improve low and middle incomes. It also creates more spending effects and thus a larger economy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u99	I did not deny the spending effects, but I put them against a structural effect as a result of a different labour supply, which ultimately results in a negative effect. Short-term effects could be positive, but in the long term structural employment effects are not positive. Mr Bashir will be given a more detailed explanation. I will see if I can braid that in my speech in the second term, because he is entitled to it now that I have promised him that. Mr Bashir also tabled the amendment to item No. 29, on a proposal that he has already discussed in this Chamber, namely no longer granting interest relief on the part of the household debt above €500,000. The cabinet now believes that peace and clarity prevail in the housing market. We have decided not to take any new measures for our own home at the moment. That is why I must advise against this amendment. I come to the amendment to item No. 30 (34302) to replace that in document No 30 (34302) 26. This is about increasing the elderly's discount and reducing the employment discount. That too is an amendment which does not reduce the burden on labour and therefore does not promote employment. That's why I'm telling you. I come to the amendment to item No. 31 (34302), which is linked to the amendment to item No. 42 although I have also heard in the bushes whisper that the amendment to item No. 42 also has a successor...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u100	The amendment in part No. Forty-two is the successor to the amendment to item No. 41.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u101	Okay. This amendment has been passed on in a different form by the CPB. I would like to look at Mr Dijkgraaf, who has directed this. I understand that a more aggressive brother has been passed on by the CPB and that this is a modified version of it. I would like to do justice to this amendment which is so important to Mr Dijkgraaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u102	I think this is a very nice wording. I am very pleased with the CPB, because that is close to our unprecedented power. It has assumed that we will also be tabling the amendment we are now tabling next year and the years to 2040. And all these years, the amendment would be adopted. We have to wait and see whether this situation is going to take place in practice. Realistic as we are, we think that we should stick to the amendment as we are talking about a real reduction in the transferable tax rebate by 2028. Again, the CPB assumes that this will continue until 2040, and always at the high level of 2016. It is a good pass-through of the CPB, just not of the amendment before us. Again, I liked the wording of the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u103	What is the State Secretary's opinion on the amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u104	I'm going to say something about this. I distance myself from the belief of Mr Dijkgraaf, who, of course, is fully entitled to form his own judgments, both in substance and in politics, on the CPB's accounts. The CPB has passed on an amendment by Mr Dijkgraaf. Some aspects of it have been less religious than others. That is all the expertise of the CPB; I stay away from that. I have often found myself in the situation that I very much wanted something else to come out of a CPB calculation, but I simply do not have to distance myself from it. I distance myself from the CPB, because the government cannot be strictly controlled, but in one case the same strictness applies to spokesmen, who, moreover, are free to distance themselves from those judgments. That amendment, the more aggressive little brother, came in the CPB's opinion on a loss of employment of 42,000 jobs. According to the same system, this amendment would cost some 35,000 jobs, based on what the CPB does and does not take into account. There are all strict texts, such as: "For the long term, the CPB only takes measures with a consistent build-up or phasing-out path towards a logical end point." Another passage reads: "The movement in the cabinet period is at odds with the structural path." Those are statements from the CPB, which I'm not getting. In this form, according to the CPB, the amendment would cost an estimated 35,000 jobs. I can imagine a number of things in this regard. My verdict is: dissuade. I said earlier that the 5 billion should be linked to a credible, structural and significant improvement in employment. That's the starting point, that's what it started with. The burden on labour must be reduced, every Dutchman must be given more to spend, and then there are the 35,000 jobs. I have indicated that this number of 35,000 is not sacred. Some people in this room have declared it sacred, but I did not. To be honest, I also have to bow my head to where the support goes. So I have not declared it sacred, but now we would come to zero and that is not to be embraced. I can imagine that Mr Dijkgraaf, for example, is going to think about a different coverage. The IACK coverage is highly employment sensitive. My suggestion is to look for another cover. Last Monday I suggested the gas-electricity slide as cover, but there may be other coverages in the whole of coverage that have passed the review here. There are coverages that clearly cost less jobs. Alternatives can also be found for the general tax reduction and its phasing-out. Several spokesmen mentioned them, including, for example, child benefit. It is true that this is less targeted, but in terms of employment effects it is more favourable. If you were to do something in that general tax rebate, you would have to look at the cut-off rate at least to limit the job losses. I do not think I am speaking completely new words for Mr Dijkgraaf, because he has studied this very well. I do like to make these suggestions here. I very much appreciate his fight for his ideals, but he also knows what he is doing, and I also ask him to understand that an injection of jobs into the economy that creates zero jobs is very difficult to sell. I may live with the CPB results, but Mr Dijkgraaf is more free than I am to distance myself from them. I must advise against this amendment in order to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u105	For the purposes of reporting, it is important that I do not distance myself in any way from the CPB overdrafts. The CPB does it according to its system and that is fully justified. The Secretary of State also said himself, however, that it is an aggressive form of calculation, which is a very nice formulation of our amendment. The CPB does take the leap we make by increasing the portability of the general tax rebate, but, because we make that leap, it does not take the statutory phasing-out. That's what actually happens. The CPB assumes that the transferable tax rebate will be at the level of €1,700 between 2016 and 2040, while the tax rebate will be zero in 2028 and will remain zero between 2028 and 2040. I'll let the CPB do that. That's the right thing to do. I do not come to that either, but the big question is what we do politically with it. I think the stinger's in the cover. The nearly 300 million it costs comes from the income-dependent combination discount, and that coverage obviously costs a lot of jobs. I accept the Secretary of State's challenge to look at the cover. I will come back to this in the second term. I would like to look at that, but what is essential for us is that in the short term the single-earners should really notice it in their wallet. That's not gonna happen if you just work on the phasing-out rate. I would like to say this in response to the questions put by the Secretary of State. That is actually the reverse of the situation, but, Madam President, I cannot help it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u106	No, you don't have to.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u107	I would like to say to Mr Dijkgraaf that it is not just about cover. So, given the conversation with the CPB, it's also about spending. If Mr Dijkgraaf had to do so in the general tax rebate, there would also be variations that would not cost employment, but would have similar effects without taking a step up first. Variants with a different pattern and without an employment effect do exist. I also need some explanation for posterity. I refer to my use of the word "aggressive." Without wishing to be unkind, that word of mine related to the earlier amendment and not to the transfer of the CPB. I am committed not to accuse the CPB of aggression in any way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u108	Well, that's too bad, but that's how she is. The Secretary of State asked: look at only the phasing-out rate. The phasing-out rate is six two thirds. For example, you could halve that. My big problem is that the single earner, who makes a substantial contribution to the two earner, does not notice anything in the short term. He doesn't notice that until the years go by. We are not silly Eppie: then there is already a new cabinet, which sits again on those buttons. That short-term leap is therefore really essential for us to welcome that amendment and to be able to support the plans.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u109	The possibilities are slightly more diverse than Mr Dijkgraaf shows here, I think, but jumps up have indeed not embraced the CPB.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u110	I listened to the interrupting debate between the Secretary of State and Mr Dijkgraaf. In it, the Secretary of State offered many openings. He said to Mr Dijkgraaf: please don't do that job ticket. However, reducing the transferability of the general tax rebate, also known as "court grant', now seems very discussable for the Secretary of State, even if this leads to job losses. That is my reading of what I have seen happening in the last three minutes before my eyes. Did I get that correctly?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u111	I say two things about this. As I said eight days ago, the cabinet realises that it will not benefit the support base if we keep all the conditions completely up. I really want to be able to grant the Dutch tax reduction, to reduce the wedge and to create as many jobs as possible. That's what I'm looking for. Then it doesn't help to get no support, because then the Dutch go backwards and those jobs don't get there. I am therefore flexible, but I have made it quite clear that my second point is that significant growth in employment is, of course, a prerequisite. That's what it's about. So I do not reason black and white, but the goal is first, and that is to create more work for Dutch people, because there are so many Dutch people who want extra work. This isn't new, it's from eight days ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u112	It would be very nice if ideas about the job fine would indeed be removed from the table. But the main thing is that the Secretary of State says he's willing to take some job losses for granted. In the previous letter, he mentioned limited job losses. I now hear him offer further openings in his search for support. He may of course choose his own words, but he says: plans are negotiable for the cabinet, even if they cost some jobs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u113	I used exactly the same words as in the legislative consultation. Let us be realistic. The cabinet is fighting for a reduction in charges. If that costs me a scratch on my face, so be it. I think it is important that there is support for reducing the burden on labour and creating jobs. If it is a little less, then so be it, but I insist that significant employment growth needs to be achieved here. That's what the Cabinet wants.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u114	Almost only for precision, I ask the following question. Mr Dijkgraaf's proposals are contained in two amendments. The amendment in part No. 42 is about the IACK. The amendment in part No. 31 was still about the jump in the transferable general tax rebate. Can I understand it in such a way that the Secretary of State does not recommend both amendments?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u115	Let's see... Then we have to be precise. That's the problem with all the linked stuff. Mr. Chairman, give me a hand. No. 31 is...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u116	No. 31 you just did, you didn't recommend that amendment. There was no ambiguity about that. You indicated at the beginning that this was linked to the Amendment No. 42 (34302), which was 41 earlier, the Dijkgraaf amendment which adjusts the income-dependent combination discount.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u117	I didn't recommend the combination with which I dissuaded them both.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u118	That was the question. The amendment in part No. 42 is therefore also dissuaded. Mr. Van Dijck.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u119	Then the Secretary of State has just lost a majority for the Tax Plan. After all, there are parties who want to tackle the IACK in order to do something for the breadwinners and there is the SP, who wants to do something at the border in the third disc. The Secretary of State has dissuaded them both. Mr Krol wants to do something for the elderly, but the elderly allowance has also been discouraged. In other words, the Secretary of State is alone with D66 in the benches.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u120	At the beginning of the debate I would have had a deal and now there will never be an agreement... It goes from one thing to another. I am trying, just like last week, to explore as closely as possible what can be done along the various wishes that live in this Chamber to create support, also by the cabinet, in which steps can be taken. I think this is important, because I think that the Dutch may pay less taxes, that the wedge should go down and that we can use 35 000 jobs very well. That's what I'm doing. Absolutisms don't fit in there. The ambition to get as many jobs as possible, yes. I'm working on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u121	The first crucial question is whether the Secretary of State is prepared to lower the IACK. That seems to be what a number of crucial parties want here. The second is whether the Secretary of State is prepared to do something about abolishing the elderly allowance. The third is whether he is willing to shorten the length of the third disk, as some parties also want. Those are the three crucial questions. But for all three, the Secretary of State has declared a no-go, i.e., dissuade. In other words, if the Secretary of State is not prepared to move on those three points, he has no majority.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u122	I think I have been more nuanced about the phasing out of the transferable general tax rebate. I said that a reduction rate could be discussed if this could be accompanied by still significant structural growth in employment in the long term. On the subject of the elderly, I did not refer to the trash can, but I did point out that there are a lot of parties in line for the budget and that it competes with each other, but that it could eventually be integrated into wishes that live here, which could possibly lead to acceptance. That's what we're doing here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u123	The Secretary of State is mainly looking at jobs in this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u124	The amendment in part No. 42.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u125	The amendment we are talking about. The amendment that the CPB has partly calculated.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u126	The one in part No. 31 is that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u127	But if the Secretary of State really thinks he's going for jobs and relief, can't he also opt for the social-green alternative? The SP but also D66 and GroenLinks have made a number of proposals that really create greening, using the resources for work, for example labour discount. The SP proposes to do something at the borders with the third and fourth disks and to use that money for a spending impulse for lower incomes and middle incomes. But I don't hear the Secretary of State about this at all. He looks at a few parties and talks at the same time about jobs, jobs, jobs. If the Secretary of State really thinks he's going for jobs, why doesn't he go for jobs?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u128	It was Mr Van Dijck who accused me of looking only at green, and now Mr Bashir blames me for not looking at green at all. I think I have been more nuanced on this point too. All kinds of proposals have come along to green up. Some of them I have embraced more than others, but I have tried to create a nuanced image in order to see if an agreement can be reached. I think the absolutisms should be removed from this debate. Again, I'm looking for support. The cabinet is prepared to cooperate with all kinds of coalition parties to this end. At the moment, I think that the willingness of the coalition parties is still limited. One wants more of something the other wants less of, and one sees a taboo where the other has a great desire. But we have to try to work together in a smart way around that. After all, it is in the interests of many that there is employment growth. That is what many spokesmen have said here. That's what I stand for. That's true. Mr Bashir says that I am only after jobs. No, not only on jobs, but jobs are a very important cause and a very important goal. More people at work, I'm not gonna let that go.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u129	The said amendment has also been signed by me. According to the CPB, the amendment will also significantly reduce income inequality. At the same time, we have also made other proposals. The social-green alternative, which I have just mentioned, has also made proposals to ensure that greening significantly increases the labour cut and that something is being done about the spending impulse at the bottom of society. I note that the Secretary of State is not consistent in his response. In Mr Dijkgraaf's proposal, he refers to jobs, and in the proposal of the social-green alternative, he points to other issues which are not relevant either. The question is whether Secretary of State Wiebes will cooperate with the Chamber. I don't think that's what he wants so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u130	Mr Bashir even owes me an answer about jobs. I also look at the employment effects in his proposals, because they are indeed important. I think that is important to many Dutch people, and that is something that is also important to many spokesmen in the end. We are still looking for the way in which that should be done. Employment - no one will deny that - is important.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u131	What is the answer to the question of whether you want to do business? That was actually Mr Bashir's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u132	I have indicated that every party is equally dear to me. As soon as there are proposals that fit into the framework conditions, I will think very seriously about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u133	I am now pleased that the Secretary of State is not referring the improvement proposals to improve the purchasing power of older people to the trash. I'm gonna write that down as a judgment room anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u134	It is not my preference and I therefore advise against the amendment. If, however, it would somehow fit in with the wishes of so many, so that there would be a basis for a movement that would ultimately create a lot of jobs, I am not going to lie in the middle of the road. The amendment in part No. 32 (34302) on box 3 is the decoupling amendment. We have discussed this very much. I think that I still do justice to Mr Omtzigt if I do not go into that further and this, with respect for the author, betrays me. The re-introducing of the elderly allowance is, I think, the brother of the amendment to item No. 27. This is an amendment tabled by Mr Omtzigt in respect of Amendment No 1, tabled by Mr Omtzigt and others on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Although it is a slightly different amendment, I must, on the basis of the same argument, come to a dissuade, but with the same package leaflet. The Amendment No 1 amends part No 1 of the motion for a resolution, which seeks to amend the text of the motion for a resolution. 34 (34302) is linked to the amendment to item No. 9 on the reduction of the IACK compared to the cabinet proposal. The proceeds are used to cover family allowances. The IACK is a rather sensitive job button. I can very well imagine that Mr Omtzigt is not eager to increase the IACK, although lowering it already leads to a loss of about 8,000 jobs. The increase in the amount of 300 million for family allowances, which is quite a considerable figure, will result in more than 4,000 jobs. In conclusion, we are talking about 13 000 jobs, a figure which we also heard yesterday in the debate. I would suggest to Mr Omtzig that it should be carefully sought here in a less job-sensitive way, insofar as he is waiting for my suggestion. I ask him to pay attention to the measure, because 300 million is a big one.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u135	So what's the government's counter-proposal? The government finds it nice to increase child benefit, which is very low, but would rather do something else. Is that the proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u136	I made that proposal last Monday. For example, I played with the idea of feeding child benefit from the green domain. There's a net release possible. You could put that in child support. Other sources of coverage have also been mentioned in this debate and in the pile of amendments. I'd rather look for it in there. Then you have cover that is less job-sensitive, yet it makes the goal to which Mr Omtzigt attaches as close as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u137	What sources of coverage have the Secretary of State himself considered? Does he mean the second and third disks? Does he mean the employment discount? Does he mean the target point between the third and fourth drive?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u138	I named the green domain and the slide gas electricity. I see in the pile of amendments that the amendment to item No. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: I call that one of the possibilities that has been put forward here. In the second and third disk there are also possibilities in the rate that have less effect on the jobs than the IACK. Those are possibilities in themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u139	So I can assume that the Secretary of State will pass judgment on to the Chamber if we replace the cover with the rate in the second and third discs?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u140	Now I have to respond to the amendments that have not been tabled! I presented the directions of thought last week. They had to do with the child benefit, because I have listened to Mr Omtzigt very carefully. I'm philosophizing here out loud about possible cover. I have not yet made a lot of small amounts, but I try to think along with Mr Omtzigt without making final judgments on amendments that have not yet been tabled. I think we're working out loud right now, not in back rooms!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u141	That's right. It is about the first time in years that the substance of this debate has been debated, except for my colleague on the left, Mr Van Dijck, who only talks about dropping the cabinet or not. That seems to be the only decision, but for me it is a question of putting together a good tax plan here. I appreciate this direction of thinking and hope that at the end the Secretary of State will indicate which direction of thinking can count on the most support or the least resistance from the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u142	Just before the administration, Secretary of State, you made a link with the amendment to item No. 9, but we cannot find that amendment. I think you're referring to something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u143	The President is probably better aware of the numbering than I am. I am referring here to the amendment to item No. 34, if I do. I would advise against that amendment in this form. My suggestions are in the Acts. I now come to the amendment on transitional arrangements for diesel and LPGoldtimers. I expect this amendment to have some effect. It also runs counter to the environmental objectives that are sometimes pursued here in this Chamber, not so much in the field of CO, but all the more so in the field of fine dust. The introduction on 1 January is not feasible either. If I may look at the logic and make another point in reply to Mr Omtzigt: he wants to extend the transitional arrangements to diesel and LPG cars, assuming that these cars, which are then in a transitional arrangement, do not make so many kilometres. Now it is not possible for diesel cars that make not so many kilometres to convert the engine into a petrol engine, but LPG is a completely incomprehensible exception. Why would you allow the owner of a car with an LPG tank, which takes up space and is aimed at multicyclists, to use a scheme that should be aimed at disabled drivers? That doesn't make any sense. If the owner of an LPG vehicle wishes to use this scheme because he drives little and not all year round, he must remove that LPG tank and is ready. It's kind of crazy to artificially enter a multi-driving category into a low-driving arrangement. I certainly wouldn't have suggested that. My other three objections also stand. We have talked about this before. It will not surprise Mr Omtzigt that I am deceiving the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u144	However, I am surprised for a number of reasons. Firstly, the Secretary of State says that the scheme cannot enter into force on 1 January. We do not have to do that at all, because it does not have to take place until 1 March. If you are covered by the transitional right, you can do the request for suspension quietly in January or February, because you are not allowed to go on the road with that car. Implementingally, the RDW gets twice as much time as the Secretary of State here says. Secondly, we have seen massive suspension by these fanciers. Thirdly, multicyclists with an LPG car who wish to use the normal right can still use it instead of the transitional right. However, you can't drive much or use the car daily, if you can't get on the road in December, January and February. If you are covered by the transitional arrangements, you will receive high fines when you go on the road, because then you are not allowed to go on the road for those three months. The statistics indicate that there are 3,000 to 5,000 kilometres of cars between 30 and 40 years old. Can the Secretary of State state indicate exactly where the problem is of regulating a net transitional right for this category?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u145	A certain suction effect is expected. Some will indeed be among the few riders, but others will not. This is not compatible with the environmental objective. In the category emerging as a multi-cyclist while using this scheme, it concerns LPG cars. It seems illogical to me to give them access to this. It is true that you will have to pay again on 1 March if you use the transitional arrangements, but I also did not say that the payment is not possible on 1 March. I said that the implementation of this measure would not be possible by 1 January. This means that the payment cannot be settled from 1 March. The tax authorities simply can't handle it at this time. A new category must be programmed. The software we are talking about, the process, is not as solid as we would all hope in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u146	For the third time today, I would like to draw your attention to a measure taken two years ago. It was introduced at the last minute. The software had yet to be built. I know that took some effort, but for petrol cars it was introduced at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u147	Yes, manually.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u148	The software now exists for petrol cars. You can use the same software for diesel and LPG cars. I really can't see the implementation problems. As far as the multi-driving problem is concerned, if a car is covered by the transitional right, you cannot use it on a daily basis because you can only use it on the road for nine months a year. You'll have to have another car and use it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u149	Why would you tolerate the LPG tank when the latter is true? If these people don't drive a lot, they can just build up the LPG tank. Mr Omtzigt's first point is that many of the tax authorities' employees are still shivering when they recall the manual process at the start of this petrol car scheme and that these conditions must be avoided. I'm not saying it can never be done without problems, because I don't know. I merely say that the tax authorities consider that the scheme cannot be introduced now. It could still mean a year later. I have no answer to that; that will have to be sorted out. Apart from that, I do not recommend this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u150	I tabled a motion during the fiscal debate, the scope of which was similar to that of the amendment. It just didn't have a deadline. I left it open. The whole story about the feasibility of the Tax Administration played a role zero point zero. Why is this now being used as an argument? Couldn't my motion have just gotten "judge chamber" at the time?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u151	I have mentioned four reasons not to do this now. Mr Van Vliet says that one of those reasons did not apply to his motion. I think that leaves three.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u152	The judgment stands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u153	However, it is striking that three quarters of the debate between Mr Omtzig and the Secretary of State is only about the feasibility of the Tax Administration. The emphasis is now firmly placed on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u154	That is one of the arguments. Let us note that it is worth paying a great deal of attention to the feasibility of the Tax Administration. We do not have in this domain, because this is a smaller domain, but we have seen a few major accidents in larger domains. We have made many Dutch unhappy with hard to implement legislation. Many people in this Chamber are right to warn me about these kinds of routes. Mr Omtzigt is one of them, Mr Van Vliet is another of them. They warn me of difficult trajectories. I am grateful to them for that, because we must prevent further accidents. That is why I would also like to give serious consideration to these assessments made by the Tax Administration. That doesn't mean we can simply say no to everything. It must be well founded, but if something cannot happen in a year that starts in a few weeks, it is not wise to introduce it. That doesn't mean it's never possible. I'm not saying that. Introduction in this period is difficult. That objection, if any, does not concern the motion. There was no term in that. I did not mention that argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u155	If the Secretary of State swears here that it can't be done, then it can't be done. Can we do it six months later? Are you sure you can do it by the 1st of July?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u156	Now comes the question of when we can. That seems to me to be a good open question. I'll see if I can find an answer to that. It can't be done this time, but I'm not saying it can never be done. That's to find out.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u157	At the other point you will come back later.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u158	I hear this green Secretary of State say: 'Then they have to get that LPG plant out of their cars and run on petrol if they are to comply with the transitional arrangements.' The question is, of course, from the point of view of greening: is it more desirable to run on petrol or gas?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u159	From the point of view of greening, it is certainly not desirable for someone with a very old car to be stimulated to use it for daily use or to use it frequently for a period of nine months per year. Old cars are dozens and, in one case, even a hundred times more polluting when it comes to nitrogen and particulate matter. The balance between petrol and gas is verse two. Gas does offer the possibility to drive more kilometers cheaper. I am not an opponent of more kilometres, but I am if they are driven cheaply with cars that are highly polluting. Ultimately, it is the choice of people themselves to drive such a car; in order to stimulate them fiscally is another story.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u160	It is, of course, strange that people with cars on petrol should be fiscally stimulated and allowed to take advantage of the transitional arrangements and not people with gas-powered cars, and that this State Secretary calls for the removal of the gas plant in order to be able to use the transitional arrangements. That is, of course, a strange course of action. I don't understand why this transitional arrangement doesn't apply to the whole group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u161	I just gave the answer to that question. I'm going to talk about the injury benefit exemption in box 3. That is a wish of Mrs Schouten.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u162	What amendment is that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u163	That is the amendment to item No. 38 (34302). That's still about the same piece. The aim of this amendment is to ensure that income from injury benefits established for the publication of the revision of box 3 is not taxed more heavily than at present as a result of the changes. The coverage of this is unclear. However, the main argument is that box 3 is a wealth income tax. The compensation itself is not taxed, especially in box 3. Capital income is taxed in box 3 and 90% improves. The question now is whether there is any indication that injury benefits fall into those 90% or in that 10%. There is only a very limited number of injury benefits per year that exceeds €100,000. That was also in the written documents. The tilt point for one person is 2.5 tonnes and for two people at 5 tonnes. It's unlikely that we have a type of box 3 client here that's becoming dominant. It is not very likely that we are dealing here with people who suffer major damage. I would not like to say that we should again make exceptions to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u164	"Not very likely" I find a rather broad understanding. Can the Secretary of State indicate more what he means by "not very likely"? By the way, the tilt point is at €239.000, to formulate it very precisely. Moreover, in 2012 there was also a transitional regime for injury compensation payments, but he saw the surcharges. Then why couldn't it be now?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u165	I have no idea. I'm gonna find out. The question here is whether we harm people who have received benefits under another regime. It is a very limited number of cases in which it exceeds the tonne at all. It is not very obvious to think that if 90% of taxpayers are making progress, we are dealing here with a major error. Nor can I imagine a process with exceptions to deal with this in turn. A lot of procedures are expected, according to the IRS. Anyway, that's all technique.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u166	Perhaps you could come back to the question of why it was possible earlier and not now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u167	That sounds good to me. It's a good question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u168	Then we shall return to it in the second term. I shall leave the opinion on this amendment open.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u169	If I come to new insights, the judgment could change. Let me interrupt this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u170	Then there is the amendment to item No. 39 (34302).
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u171	Yes, the amendment to item No. 39 is about reversing the increase in excise duties by a higher addition. This is an amendment whose run-up has been very much debated. I do not think there are many subjects in my life and in Mr Omtzig's that bind us like this. I have responded non-verbally to one paragraph of his amendment. He and I are of the opinion that the subsidies for so-called energy-efficient vehicles have not produced much. I have even argued that they have damaged the climate. I have responded non-verbally to that. However, the phasing out here is very rough, namely in one stone. That's gonna bring in a market disturbance from where I got you. The mathematicians also do not agree with the way in which the estimation was made here and the extent and the way in which the behavioural effects were taken into account. I have already responded to this once in a debate. As a result of both collection and retrieval, I would advise against this amendment. It's been changed before. Then I come to the amendment to item No. 42 (34302). We've already discussed that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u172	That was first no. 41.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u173	Then I come to the amendment to item No. 10 (34305) by Mr Van Vliet on the restriction of the free space of the WKR. His goal is to exclude all kinds of cash payments from the WKR. That is not the purpose of this regulation either. But with the tightening up in the bill, that is already happening, in a different way than here. It leads to the view that it is very much more complex in implementation and that the administrative burden is greatly increased. This means that half of the administrative burden benefits offered by the WKR would evaporate through this form of implementation alone. In other words, it is right that there is alertness to the problem, but the problem has been solved and this only leads to a great deal of extra work and additional burdens. That is why I must advise against the amendment, which I would like to express my thanks to Mr Van Vliet for the fact that he himself, because he was close to it in practice, sees that this kind of thing is at risk of happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u174	I accept the compliment, but I have a short question to ask. In the previous written response to the legislative consultation, the State Secretary said that the problem is addressed through the utility criterion in the final levy story. However, I tabled the amendment because the Secretary of State mentioned as an example that it might still be common practice for someone who has tried very hard to obtain a gratification. Of course, that is not in any way a fee for costs or anything like that. That's just a reward. Of that, I say, that's what the whole Pay Tax Act is all about. That's a regular benefit from the employment. You just have to tax it. Surely that cannot be pushed into free space, because a lot of companies might do this and it becomes common practice for you to grant a gratification?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u175	That seems to me to be a sensible argument, and I will check it out just to be sure. I'll get back to you on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u176	I understand that you will come back to the amendment to item No. 10 by Mr Van Vliet?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u177	Yes. That brings me to the amendment to item No. 11 (34305) by Mr Van Vliet on reducing the limit from 750 million to 500 million. All countries, including all OECD countries, apply this limit. If the Netherlands is the only one in this international network to introduce a different border, it will be very complicated, not only for the Netherlands but also for other countries. This means an increase in administrative burdens and an increase in implementation costs. The amendment evaluator has even stated that this could be detrimental to the locational environment. I don't know if Mr Van Vliet wants to. But that might help us get a little ahead of ourselves. It doesn't seem right to do this, and I have to advise against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u178	I read in the quickscan on the feasibility of this Van Vliet amendment to No. 11 that it's just executable. There's nothing else there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u179	I'm sure it's executable. It is feasible with additional administrative burdens of 1.5 million and additional implementation costs of a few tonnes. That means it's executable. It's just not desirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u180	I will see at the vote whether that is not desirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u181	It is astonishing, but sometimes there are other policy considerations involved than merely the feasibility of the Tax Administration. Sometimes we get that detoxed. I shall now turn to the amendment No. 12 (34305) on the suspensive effect of the appeal. It seems that Mr Omtzigt has been concerned about too large numbers when he tabled this amendment and that it is more finer than he has accepted. There are 3,000 appeals to the court and 400 appeals to the Council of State. The total number of cases of parties appealing against a court ruling in the field of surcharges is around 75 per year. Most of those cases are also won. It's just about those cases, not all other cases. It is therefore not the case that a large number of appeals lead to suspensive effects. It is only the cases referred to above that are a matter of principle. There's 75 of them. That's a point number. Those are also cases where the Tax Administration thinks it will win. Most of the time, I do. I have the feeling that Mr Omtzigt may have been worried by a practice that, if you tell it like that, seems threatening, but it is a very much smaller number of cases. I also mentioned this in the letter. I hope that has convinced Mr Omtzigt. My opinion on this amendment is currently: dissuade. The hour criterion is a wish of Mr Bashir. He said in a debate with my colleague, the Minister of SZW, that it is his desire to extend the hour criterion from 24 hours to 28 hours a week. My colleague has dealt with this in detail. That is where the judgment comes from, with the explanation given by my colleague.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u182	This was the amendment in part No. 8 (34304).
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u183	Yes, in part No. 8. Now the amendment to item No. 9 (34304) That's about LIV for shorter employment. That doesn't include cover, by the way. Pretty sure it's 50 million. A separate LIV for short employment of at least six months reaches a larger target group, e.g. seasonal workers, foreigners and flex workers, but this brings non-significant sustainable jobs under the scheme. That makes the scheme less effective. It is estimated that this will bring 75,000 workers within the scope of the LIV scheme. This actually creates a very parallel LIV trajectory. It deviates from the conditions of the LIV scheme and differs from the unambiguous annual system of the Wtl. This means that we need to set up a second implementation process. However, one of the lessons of those who are now out of the picture for me but who are behind Mrs Schouten, namely Mr Omtzigt, has asked about the Whale lessons. One of the Whale lessons is that you shouldn't mix things up and that different implementations shouldn't cross each other. The fact that the definitions and conditions are different also means that it cannot be carried out automatically at the present time. It would even mean that you have to turn it into a partially manual process. This seems to me to be a path on the implementation of which we have all been concerned during the treatment, not wise to do so. I really need to dissuade this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u184	The Secretary of State mentions so many arguments that I can say something, that I almost forgot where to start. Firstly, the argument relating to the group of foreigners, seasonal workers and so on. We have put our finger on the way the scheme would work out for these groups. It was always said, no problem. It would not be a problem at all, because those groups are almost not covered by this regulation. Now, with this amendment, it would be a major problem. Something's already wrong with the LIV system, I guess. Secondly, I would like to take another argument: 'The Secretary of State says that it should all be done manually with the introduction'. The point of the LIV is that it is not paid until after t+1, i.e. one year after implementation. That also applies to this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u185	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u186	The Secretary of State therefore has more than a year to implement this, if this amendment is adopted. In short, I understand very well when the Secretary of State says that he does not want to, but the arguments he puts forward are actually one-to-one reasons to question the LIV regime. Does the Secretary of State recognize that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u187	The reasons for not wanting to do so come from SZW's colleague. Implementation is a joint responsibility. This does not fit in the automated feasibility, as it has been grafted on other periods and conditions. You'd have to put a separate trial next to that. That means you're introducing a second LIV with a separate implementation chain. However, the amendment is not feasible in the chain as it is now being created. That does not mean that it can never be done, but it is not feasible at the moment. There is also a solid execution job. That's what we've been talking about here. This shouldn't interfere with the job.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u188	If we look closely at the amendment, we can see that the LIV group is only getting a little bigger.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u189	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u190	The fact that hours have to be checked and the fact that someone has worked for a year or, in this case, more than six months does not seem to me to be a decisive argument against this amendment. I do not want to trivialise the concern about feasibility, but, as the Secretary of State now puts it, it would also apply to the current LIV, in which all these processes must be carried out. There is also almost a year and a half left to settle this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u191	The bald fact that more people are coming at it shouldn't be prohibitive. In fact, that would mean that, if it becomes a success in its present form, we would suddenly be unable to carry out LIV. That would be crazy. It is precisely the fact that another animal is released into the same cage. And two of these products on one production line can't be. That means you have to start a separate production line. During the introduction of the Wtl as a whole, with the two different routes, we already had to move one route backwards to make it feasible at all. Mr Omtzigt has asked me: can all this be done at the same time? The answer was no. They can't be, and that's why they're staged differently. It is an extremely critical operation, where this idea would go cycling as a third "species." It shouldn't be, and I'm not saying it can never happen. I'm saying it's not possible right now. Moreover, it is the opinion of SZW's colleague that the scheme would become less effective. Mr President, I think I am through the documents, except for a number of points for a further period. Several members of this Chamber still owe me things.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u192	Yes, you have commented on many of the amendments in detail, but you have also missed a large number.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u193	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u194	These are in particular amendments to the Tax Plan. I don't know if you can treat them now. I'll list the numbers. Two amendments have only been received late, so I can imagine that this is not going to work. This is the case with the amendments to item No. 6, by Mr Bashir, 23, 36, 37, 40, 43, 44 and 45. And then there are the amendments to item Nos. 47 and 48, but I don't think you've seen them yet. On Chamber number 34304, on the Wtl, I still have the amendment to item No. 10. I do not know if you have these amendments in your stack.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u195	No, I don't, because I've finished the whole pile. But I told you, the pile is a pretty dynamic thing. I don't know if you're playing with the idea of a break, but maybe we can pick this up properly. I do not know the amendments now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u196	I think I have a workable proposal for that. The Members of Parliament would very much like to have commented on the amendments before the start of the second term, but you do not have them now. I was actually going to suspend for dinner break at the end of the first term, but my proposal is to do so now. This will give you the opportunity to respond to these amendments after dinner. Then we'll start on the second term. I can see that this proposal also raises comments in addition to a yes-nob, so I would like to give the floor to a number of Members who have a supplementary question or something like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u197	I want to make it easier for the Secretary of State. I would like my amendment to point No. Retract six.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u198	The Bashir amendment (Doc. 6, 34302) has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u199	It can be done in the way proposed. This means that, if the Secretary of State has responded, I will ask for a suspension before we begin the second term of office. The most important amendments to me are precisely in the pile that has not yet been dealt with.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u200	Oh, dear, I've failed Mr. Grashoff in particular.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u201	That's just bad luck and it won't have any deeper intentions, but I'd still like to weigh it up.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u202	Then I'll take that into account when determining the length of the dinner break.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u203	One of my first-term questions is still open. I did read the written answer. There are still a lot of reactions to the disappearance of the blue letter. A hotline has now even been set up at Union KBO. I would like to know from the Secretary of State whether citizens will be actively approached. Are they aware of the fact that they still have time to submit the matter on paper?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u204	We are really doing the electronisation of message traffic in steps. We have no objectives in terms of: then and then it must be settled for this and this document. We always look at the actual use and the reports about the way it goes in the field. Then we'll switch. There's always a parallel period in it. This means that the call is made at that time to do it electronically. A very extensive communication campaign has been launched. The conditions can be read on the site, but that's just electronic. We do not send letters about the fact that you can still apply for things, because we have done so in a different way. There are various forms of support, such as declaration aid, elderly associations and civil society organisations. These are organisations that often support taxpayers in this process. We are working with these organisations to clarify how we can best help people. For some, this means that they can still rely temporarily on paper support, but for others, it means that they are being helped to do it electronically. There's contact with all kinds of organizations. The Tax Administration itself also points people to it via the tax phone, because people who have not yet been contacted electronically do call. Furthermore, we have specially trained the people at the tax phone to take those people into the process. On the phone it is established whether people have only been helped with paper forms for a while or whether they need help in some way in order to settle them electronically. For most people who need help with their declaration, it doesn't really matter whether it's on paper or by phone. After all, they are already allowed to do it by someone else, or by means of formal assistance in the case of a declaration or by family members. In all these cases, electronic declarations are welcome. So it's all going in steps. We'll monitor it. I have also taken on certain reporting obligations to the Chamber. Those who report through conventional channels, in particular by telephone, are reminded of the way in which they should deal with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u205	I am partially reassured by these encouraging answers from the Secretary of State. But I still have to tell him that there are really a lot of complaints coming in, including from people who, when they call the IRS, are sent with a bunch of shit. I therefore call on the Secretary of State to communicate it very well. The Secretary of State must also make it clear that the people who really can't do it digitally can still do it in a different way after two years. We both have to laugh a little about the fact that the Secretary of State says that the information is available on the website, because of course these people are not helped by it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u206	Research shows that many of these people turn out to be using others in their environment who are digitally skilled. Through these kinds of channels you can rather effectively point people to the possibilities. We all know the examples in our environment. We see that older people and people with some distance from this kind of formalities are effectively helped by people in the area who put a shoulder under it. We want to live in a society like this. I'm gonna go after the pussy-reed story. I don't like bunches. I don't like reeds. We're gonna do it. There's a whole team standing by, but I'm gonna go ask for the pussy-reed reference. Because not only Mr Krol gets a lot of calls: I bet the Tax Administration gets a lot more.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u207	Maybe you can come back to that after the suspension. Then perhaps Mr Krol will be able to take that into account in his second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u208	I'd like to do that differently. I consider it an assignment to take a look at this issue. I would like to thank Mr Krol for his lead; that needs to be looked at more closely. I'll take care of that and get on with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u209	That is a promise.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u210	I'm surprised by the Secretary of State's answer. He says it's gonna keep going on paper for a while, and people get help when they need it. But I understand that Supplements have already been switched entirely to electronic. I do not think that is exactly what was reported to the Chamber. We would first retain both messages for at least a year. Can the Secretary of State check that out, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u211	No, it's not a year, because after consulting the First Chamber, it's been two years. The parallel period is therefore extended from one year to two years. That is a minimum, because if it is not all right after two years and too few people show that they can do it electronically, then the period must be even longer. The minimum is therefore extended to two years. The only process that I now remember that we have had a great deal of time over the last two years is increases. There we are doing very well, with a huge amount of electronic. Although this has been possible for years, a paper review is almost never requested. I calculated it once: the people who have asked for a paper review in recent years fit well into this Chamber. For all other routes, at least two years are first completed and then gradually switched to electronic. During that period it is still possible to get it on paper. And no, it is not as generous as Mr Bashir says, namely that it is just as well on paper. The preference is electronic. By the way, the vast majority of taxpayers do so. Older people are also getting 90% digitally on their returns, and so on. The preference is therefore electronic, but during the period mentioned, according to the agreement with the Chamber, it is still possible on paper.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u212	What about Supplements?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u213	Increases are the only ones that have gone through two years. That's where we start step by step. There's the continuation message, a letter you get saying: if nothing has changed in your life, you'll get this and this again next year. That is a so-called non-critical document. At some point this will only be sent electronically. After that, all the other documents will come. So it goes one step at a time. We start with the least critical documents and end with the most critical.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u214	You have already put your second question outside the microphone and received a comprehensive answer. That is why very briefly, Mr Bashir.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u215	Normally, the SP Group receives many complaints via e-mail, but at the moment we get dozens of telephone complaints about the fact that messages about surcharges are no longer sent by letter. A lot of people are very angry about that. A lot of people who were independent and were able to manage on their own can't do that anymore. That is a matter of concern, I suppose, to the Secretary of State. I would like to ask him if he would like to take another look at that, because I do not think the country is quite ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u216	We have six laws on the table here and this subject is not on any of them; let me be honest. We're talking about a law that's already passed through the Upper House. In both the Second and First Chambers, I made further commitments to make this easier. In fact, it seems to me very strong that, in such a great revolution, only a few dozen telephone calls have been received by Mr Bashir; perhaps I would have expected a little more of that. Some people hiccup at it in the beginning. That is why we have this very careful, step-by-step process, with all that monitoring and reporting to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u217	Mr Omtzigt for a brief question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u218	This isn't about the bill. By the way, I find it interesting to see that the two parties who were in favour are now asking questions. Also 50PLUS was before this. We were against it for this reason, because we were expecting these calls a little bit. I ask the Secretary of State if the answers just promised can come after the break and before the end of the first term. That would help us very much for the second term. I agree with Mr Grashoff's request that we do not pause for too long now and that we should also have a form of suspension between the first and second periods.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u219	There were still a few questions open.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u220	I think it was four. I look at my officials and I see that they have taken note of that. In addition, there are eight amendments which have somehow disappeared from my stack. I'm gonna do my best for that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u221	There's gonna be a new pile, which includes those eight.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u222	You're going to dinner and I'm going to work. That's what I think it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u223	I hope you'll also see a chance to have dinner. After the remainder of the reply after the dinner suspension, we will suspend for another 15 minutes so that the Chamber can prepare itself for the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u224	I'm reopening the meeting. The next item is the continuation of the debate on the 2016 Tax Plan. The Secretary of State continues his reply in the first term. I can see Mr Van Dijck at the interrupting microphone! Tell me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u225	A point of order. While we were debating here this afternoon, the Christian group chairmen seem to have been sitting together. And they're out! They have a proposal to serve the breadwinners without costing jobs. I don't know the proposal. I assume the Secretary of State doesn't know it either, but they've already been on the news to tell them they're happy they're out. I would like the Christian parties to send that proposal to the Chamber so that the Secretary of State can respond to it. I say that because he still has to respond to the remaining amendments. I assume that an amendment will now be tabled very quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u226	It's a bit of a strange request, because you're not addressing the cabinet, you're addressing the Christian parties. I'm just looking at Mr Dijkgraaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u227	It would be the royal road to table an amendment. However, they are still with the amendment service. When they're done in time, they'll come here. If not, Mr Omtzigt, who will be the first, will explain in his term exactly what the intention is, so that everyone knows what is going to happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u228	I very much appreciate the PVV's request. I'd like to see it first. I would also like to know how many pensioners are going to contribute to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u229	It's starting to get a little crazy for words anyway. This is the crucial part of the debate, and that agreement does not come about at 5:00 to 12:00, but even at 5:00 to 12:00. We will now continue to debate and then the proposal will emerge somewhere in the middle of the second term. I propose that this debate should not be resumed until this proposal is on the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u230	Who wants to say something about this? Mr Van Dijck, you've already been. Would you like to respond to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u231	Mr Grashoff makes an order proposal which I would like to support. It is indeed strange that the media say 'we are out', because we all need to consider what we think of that plan, especially the coalition parties. The Secretary of State should also respond to this and then it will be explained orally in the second term, without anything being written on paper. That is not possible, because this is a crucial moment in the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u232	You are proposing to suspend the debate. That is what you are asking and I see that Mr Grashoff supports you. I am looking at Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u233	There is no reason whatsoever to suspend the debate at this time, because the Secretary of State must finish his first term. I'd like him to do that first. As I said, we are working on a number of draft amendments. One amendment is a bit tricky technically, but I am fully prepared to explain that amendment. The other amendments have already been tabled and can therefore be discussed now. They're already part of what's ahead. I happen to be the first speaker to be able to explain it, and I am prepared to do so. If after that explanatory statement it is still necessary to suspend for five or ten minutes, then... I will really try to explain it as clearly as possible and do my utmost to ensure with my staff that the amendment has been tabled at that time. I can see why that's what people want.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u234	So no support.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u235	As far as I am concerned, we will start the debate as soon as possible and we will finish it. Party X and party Y can imagine what they want, because maybe it's a little harshly said, I don't really care. I'm hearing the Secretary of State's story now. That's what we're here for now, because he's gonna submit that plan to the First Chamber. Now let's just keep going, because what parties come up with is up to them. I can see them coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u236	Mr. Krol. I'm just going down the line.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u237	I support Mr Grashoff's proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u238	We're handling the tax plan tonight. Let's just settle that. If any amendments are tabled during the evening, by a Christian party or any other party, they will come and we can deal with them. Let's just have the debate as planned.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u239	I would like to choose the line Mr Dijkgraaf chose at the beginning of this debate at 4 p.m. I trust that the parties will be able to table amendments, including jointly. I'll wait and see. It would indeed have been the royal road if we had ensured that these amendments were there before the start of the second term. I trust that they have done their best. If there is also an agreement with the cabinet, with the coalition, I assume that the Secretary of State will report to us shortly in the follow-up to his reply. And that is exactly the same request as Mr Dijkgraaf made at 4 p.m. If there is an agreement, but also if there is no agreement, I'd like to hear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u240	So there is no support for suspending the debate. Mr. Dijkgraaf, you've already been, haven't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u241	That is correct, Madam President, but I can answer that question. There's no deal with the cabinet, there's no deal with the coalition groups. It is simply the regular parliamentary process, in which groups look at each other's amendments and adapt them. If we are going to suspend the debate for that, we can clear up some meeting time. What we are doing here is entirely the regular process. We look at each other's amendments, we look at what is acceptable, we do things together. They'll pass by. As an additional service, Mr Omtzig will explain this in detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u242	I'm gonna take it up a little bit for the Secretary of State. In fact, we are still thinking about adapting amendments. I also tabled an amendment very late. I had also hoped that that would have happened earlier, but that's how things go a bit in the process of things. It would have been nicer if we had done it a little earlier. It's just really an adjustment of the amendments that are there. I believe that we do so throughout the debate. I don't think it's a reason for a suspension right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u243	I don't need a suspension. Amendments are part of the trial in the Lower House. I think it would be nice if the amendments were to be there soon, including amended amendments. Let us continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u244	I have also tabled good amendments. So let us, above all, continue with the process and with the debate. We can still table amendments until tomorrow's vote. Then we can always consider whether we should postpone voting.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u245	Members can also count: there is no support for Mr Grashoff's request to suspend the debate. The vast majority believe that we should simply move forward with this debate. I now give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u246	Mr. Chairman. No backrooms, no chords: it's getting used to, I establish. Several Members still owe me answers. Against Mrs Schouten I have, I think, been somewhat unclear. Even I haven't quite noticed the unclearness; maybe she has. She asked me why a transitional arrangement could be made at the time for injury benefits and why this could not be done now. She also asked me why this is now impossible. I didn't say that last one. No, it's not impossible, it's just a lot of hassle, with a long run-up period and a manual execution. That manual execution was there at the time. It is always a balance between the social suffering that you solve on the one hand and the amount of hassle, including all mistakes and situations, on the other. At that time it was a group of citizens who would lose their entire right to a supplement. This involved large numbers. In this case, however, the impression is that it is not about great suffering and that many people are improving. At the time, it really depended on fees: either you get it or you don't get it anymore. That is why the transitional arrangements were made. It was a lot of hassle, it's still a lot of hassle. It is not impossible, but in my opinion it is not desirable and the balance between hassle and social suffering is not favourable.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u247	One more factual question: I also asked the question about how many people are involved. The Secretary of State had a very general term for it. If it's not so many people, as he claimed at first, can't the fuss be limited? The suffering for that group of people may be great.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u248	That must then become a kind of counter-proof-based situation, because people who improve on it do not come forward and people who decline on it do. Here is the impression that it would cost a small tonne per year in implementation. The impression is indeed that it is not a very large number of people who are significantly declining. In fact, the adjustment of interest rates could go in all directions. It could get better for everyone, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u249	But once again, how many people are involved according to the Secretary of State's calculation? He leaves that in the middle all the time, while at the same time that could be the argument why it might be feasible for such a group. For that group, greater suffering would be avoided.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u250	It simply cannot be estimated precisely, because we do not have a database of injury benefits for a certain date with the amount of them. The conservative estimate has been made that it costs a ton, looking at what the process involved earlier. Indeed, it is necessary to explain a process, a kind of counter-proof-based process. That estimate has been made, but the exact numbers are just not known, so it continues to be a little gambling. The cost may also be double, but the Tax Administration estimates that it costs a small tonne. More precise numbers are unfortunately not available. A similar question was put by Mr Omtzigt. However, he went back a little further, and that was harder to dig. I'm fighting the institutional memory here a little bit. At the time, further detailing can always be requested for an arrangement that differs on two points from what we were talking about today. The first difference is that the preparation time was considerably longer then. The second is that because of the criteria used at the time, the precise group was already known at the time when the transitional regime entered into force. Now, however, we are talking about a group that only needs to be shown who belongs afterwards, on the basis of two different facts. You must first have received the supplement and then no longer meet the criteria as a result of this change of law. Now the group is not known for two reasons, then the group was known with precision. That's what made the difference. He also asked, this same Mr Omtzigt, whether the consultation phase is public. That's right. The results are set out in the explanatory note of the Decision. Mr Grashoff asked when an exemption for natural gas consumption in mineralogic and metallurgical processes could enter into or a refund scheme. The date on which that is safe is 1 January 2017. Mr Bashir asks... This is the way things are going with the simplifications of the Tax Administration, but perhaps I will give the floor to Mr Grashoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u251	The answer surprises me somewhat, because it concerns a very limited number of companies. So there is no mass production. I have also understood that there would be a difference between an exemption scheme and a refund scheme, and that there would be more time for a refund scheme in 2016. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u252	They have in the execution, it seems, all characteristics of a restitution scheme, although they are legally something else. This is the answer I could now ride above the table. It's tempting to think it can go on in six weeks, but it doesn't. It's a year later. Mr Bashir asked when a transitional arrangement for old-timers, diesel and LPG would be feasible. That's the same date, January 1, 2017. A separate study has been carried out to see whether 1 July is feasible. That seems risky. We learned our lesson in this. 1 January 2016 is feasible, but implementation costs would only reach around one tonne for this group. I'll leave it to the... Oh no, Mr. Omtzigt has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u253	I'd like you to finish your sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u254	If the Secretary of State assesses the amendment...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u255	No, no, no. The Secretary of State will finish his sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u256	I've already assessed the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u257	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u258	Thank you. I would like to know whether 1 July is still possible, because it has happened in other cases. If we put the date in the amendment back, if it is feasible, could the amendment then be given Chamber judgment?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u259	I don't want to choose that. It's been picked out separately for July. But if Mr Omtzigt changes the date in the amendment to "1 January 2017" it is simply feasible. Whether or not he cares much about my judgment, he makes up his own mind, but then at least it will be enforceable. Then I come to Mr Omtzigt's letter with the various dates on which changes to the parameters are still possible. Let's try that one time. Mr Van Vliet asked about the financial compensation. All kinds of large amounts, such as bonuses and gratifications, are blocked by the custom check. What sometimes happens is that when Christmas packages are refused a small fee is possible. It is in the free space, because it is the replacement of the oh so much needed Christmas package. The regular bonuses and gratifications are blocked by the custom check and are therefore not covered by the WKR. I think that's what he's after. There are still a few amendments. The amendment in part No. 23 concerns the block exemption from inheritance tax of up to one million. This is an amendment tabled by Mr Klein and he proposes to reduce the working discount to cover it. This is increasing the burden on labour. This is directly the opposite of what the cabinet is aiming at. This increases the wedge and makes it a little harder for people to get to work. Fewer people will hire employees. It is so contrary to the objectives of the cabinet that I reject this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u260	I dispute that this increases the burden. It makes them less high than the cabinet wants. I support the reduction in the burden of the cabinet, just not to the extent that the cabinet wants. We are still relying on a reduction in the burden, I believe that this is a very liberal and important starting point, as well as an additional reduction in the burden by abolishing the inheritance tax. That makes sense. That's a choice the cabinet may not want to make. I respect that and it's legitimate. However, it would be wrong to increase the burden, quite the contrary, the burden goes down.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u261	It is not an additional burden reduction, because it is a covering proposal, for which I am grateful, because it is budget-neutral compared to the cabinet's bill. However, the form in which the burden relief is offered is different: a labour discount that is €335 lower than in the cabinet bill. This means that, compared to the legislative proposal that is before us, the burden on labour is increasing. I do not think that is desirable. There are choices, as Mr Klein says, and they are politics. The cabinet opts for lower burdens on labour and more people at work, with respect, moreover, for Mr Klein's proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u262	It is good that there is mutual respect, because that is a starting point with which we should work more often here in the house. The point is that we increase the burden less. It is indeed a burden increase in both cases that we do not want. The cabinet wants more burden relief, as it expects more jobs to be created. The cabinet wants the burden relief to be higher than I want, because another alternative ultimately leads to more jobs: the spending freedom is greater because less money goes to the Tax Administration because of the inheritance tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u263	I didn't hear a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u264	Me neither.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u265	It would have been smooth for me if I'd heard it. I do not think I understood Mr Klein's speech in the final term, but I have to admit. The Grashoff amendment to point No. 36 is about the energy load, the shift from electricity to gas. Mr Grashoff proposed raising the price of natural gas by five cents and reducing electricity by two cents. This is a netted of the two proceeds of 230 million. This is along the lines I can imagine. I also outlined it last Monday. The general tax discount of 4 million is a very small thing I don't hang on to. In reducing the Aof premium in order to compensate the business community, I am very much in favour of it. I can imagine anything at the collection of the money. I find the backlock in the STEP scheme unnecessary. I understand from my colleague that there is really no problem there. I also understand from Mr Grashoff that he looks at this differently, but I will stick to that assessment. I reject the amendment in this form because of the backlock, but it seems to me to be a very useful amendment for all kinds of other things. I'm just being honest: I only get out of this game in one piece when I'm going to quartet over domains. This could be one of those elements. I can imagine the backlock in all kinds of areas, but perhaps just a little less in the STEP scheme. That is why I do not recommend it here, but I would also like to thank Mr Grashoff for these ideas, because I like the pick-up. I've said it before, but go say it again. The amendment tabled by Mrs Schouten, Mr Grashoff and Mr Van Weyenberg to item No. 37 (34302) on the postcode rose scheme did not seem to me to be necessary, but if this in any way contributes to the support, I have nothing against it either. The fanaticism of the proposers is apparently greater than that of those who watch over the energy agreement. That is why I would like to thank the House for its assessment of this amendment. The amendment in part No. 40 (34302) deals with energy taxation for large consumers. From a legal point of view, this is something that still needs to be repaired. I understand that Mr Grashoff is aware of this. The large consumer tariff is being increased here without it being combined with an exemption for the metallurgical and mineralogic industries, a wish which is expressed in my letter. Nor has the amendment introduced a refund scheme for the deltate in gas revenues. According to an analysis, that would mean that you are really disrupting the level playing field, because the countries around us all do. Then we are putting our energy at a disadvantage. That does not help the climate, but it does not help employment. I therefore advise against this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u266	The Secretary of State's interpretation doesn't add up. The amendment introduces a separate tariff for the metallurgical and mineralogic industries. That bridges the exact difference. That is exactly what we are doing. The delta designated by the Secretary of State thus exempts that sector from the increase.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u267	Does that also apply to the refund scheme? It's two separate cases, isn't it? It is an exemption for the metallurgical and mineralogic sectors and it is a refund scheme for the gas part for companies with agreements in terms of energy efficiency.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u268	That's another question I can't answer directly. We shall have to look at that in technical terms. The essence is that we wanted to solve the problem that was seen in the metallurgical and mineralogic industries, not entirely to my liking. I will also put forward a motion to get rid of this exemption in a European context. We will see how promising that is, but for the moment we have opted for a level playing field.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u269	In view of the lack of clarity about the legal interpretation, but also about these interpretations, I can imagine that Mr Grashoff will find a further way to reach an opinion on this and that we may not be discussing this at this time. We now come to an amendment which, in our view, does not seem complete, or do I see it wrong? Mr Grashoff looks very tired. That's not my intention!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u270	I am, of course, keen to hear whether or not the Secretary of State is prepared to embrace this movement as a matter of principle. If we still have to make a technical change on this point, I would like to think about it, but I am only going to put some energy into it if the State Secretary's reply shows that he thinks this is a good move which he would like to embrace.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u271	I understand the technical movement. I've said before that I'm worried about where this is gonna end up. This will end up in care and education. There, these effects are increasingly feared. That is why I cannot accept the amendment. I come to Mrs Schouten's amendment to item No. 43 (34302) on the S&D reduction ceiling. I believe that I have said some positive things about Mr Van Weyenberg's similar amendment earlier, perhaps by means of an artificial grip, but that was about very different numbers. Here I see 7 million, while I saw 20 million elsewhere; I see if Mr Van Weyenberg recognizes that. This means a very strong redistribution of the budget towards SMEs. That may be exactly what Mrs Schouten is trying to do, but that is really at the expense of the big business and the top sectors. That is why I must put this amendment away as too rugged and I must advise against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u272	To clarify, this is not a redistributing amendment, but it withdraws 100 million from those arrangements for the defence budget. Then we've got it all worked out.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u273	Ah, look at that: less Wbso, more DOD. Unfortunately, I have to maintain judgment. I come to Mr Bashir's amendment to item No. 44 (34302). It introduces an exemption for the energy tax on natural gas in the mineralogic and metallurgical sectors. The amendment will only be covered through electricity tariffs. The essence of the letter I sent about the large consumers is that there is no room there. This would, for example, affect chemistry and also a number of other sectors. Coverage is calculated where there's no room. I have to discourage the amendment. I come to Mr Groot's amendment to item No. 45 (34302) to discourage investors in box 3 to exempt investment firms. This is not really seen as a durable solution for arbitration. It's temporary and not sustainable, but there's not much against it either. If Mr Groot has the great wish to send out the message that these avoidance structures must be adapted to their count, then I should like to leave the amendment to the discretion of the Chamber. Mr Van Weyenberg has the amendment to item No. 47 (34302) on shifts in the 5 billion package. It's just a little amendment, but the shifts are big. The employment discount will be slightly higher and especially the IACK will be greatly increased. This is financed by the third income tax rate and also by an extension of the third shift and thus by a reduction of the fourth. I get it. He wants employment, and so does the cabinet, of course. However, we can find with rather mathematical certainty that this amendment is exactly the combination of proposals which we are likely to lose everyone. Technically, a KOT increase will no longer take place in 2016; an IACK or employment discount could still be possible. In terms of size, but also in terms of direction, the amendment is very rough. Many parties that can provide support in one way or another will run away. With a few suggestions I can imagine, but the IACK works on more colleagues in this house as a red patch than the labor discount. I can therefore imagine more at the employment discount than at the IACK. I also do not find the coverage happy in every way. At the rate of the third disc I can imagine some things, although a sturdy boy is introduced here with undoubtedly all kinds of purchasing power effects. The amendment also deals with the length of the third disc. I have discussed this with Mr Bashir before. He commented on the extension of the third disc and the move from the fourth to the fourth. Several of them were watching that little chat. The extension of the fourth disc was not a gift for middle and higher incomes, but a direct communication vessel with the reduction of the general tax discount. Where the marginal pressure disappeared on one piece, the marginal pressure was applied to the other in that piece. They are connected together, so that it goes smoothly, just to prevent a certain group from giving something away, but getting nothing back. It seems that gifts are being given away, but ultimately it is a percentage improvement in purchasing power, although it is smaller than with the other discs. I wouldn't do that, because households will end up in negative mode from twice, because they'll get caught by their legs on the one hand, but they won't get anything back on the other. I can imagine something with that third disc, so in the tariff sphere, nothing at the disc boundary. If I really want to radiate that I'm looking for support, possibly at D66 or anyone else, I can't embrace this, because then I only have D66 left. This party is very sweet to me, but not enough. In other words, the stakes on more jobs are to be welcomed. With some of the coverages, I can imagine anything, but other instruments have been chosen so harshly that we would lose too many people at the table. I also respect the desire to increase employment rather than reduce it. However, I do not recommend this amendment for the reasons I have just put forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u274	Apparently, the choice is very clear. That's right. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the compliment that this amendment does indeed create a lot of jobs. Maybe the Secretary of State even counted on it. I wonder if he'll put a sum on it. In any case, it is true that we are fully committed to work. As far as I and my group are concerned, that is also what this Tax Plan is about: indeed, a higher reduction in working hours, indeed more money for childcare and indeed a higher reduction in combination. That choice lies ahead in the eyes of my group. I would once again like to thank the Secretary of State for recognising that this amendment creates a great deal of jobs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u275	He was a bad guy, too. I congratulate D66 on this. The cabinet is also fully committed to work, but also fully supported. The combination of this means that more is needed than just making lists that produce work. I am happy to do so, because this is a desire that I share with Mr Van Weyenberg. However, my objective is not only to promote employment, but also to gain some support for it. Without support it becomes a nice story, but it stays with a piece of paper. I do not want that, and I am sure Mr Van Weyenberg does not want that either. I call on him to participate in my fight to gain support for more jobs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u276	The Secretary of State knows I'm always very open to that. He has just indicated in other amendments that the door to fewer jobs was open. On that point, my group is simply really making a different assessment, namely many more jobs. The question is whether this can count on a majority here. I am also very interested in the voting behaviour of the coalition parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u277	The Secretary of State is talking about acceptance. The SP has tabled an amendment that has the same coverage as the amendment that is now before it. So you could also suggest putting these two things together. You'll be heading for support pretty soon. However, I believe that the Secretary of State has already made his choice and so have the coalition parties. They do not want to go for social, green and more jobs, but simply choose a different course.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u278	That wasn't a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u279	We are looking for support for a reduction in the burden on labour and more employment, and each party is equally dear to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u280	You'd almost forget the VVD is in this cabinet. This amendment is hugely leveling, isn't it? With what's in there, the SP on the left gets caught up. The Secretary of State only says: "Too bad, I have to think of support." This VVD Secretary of State says: if there had been sufficient support in this Chamber, I would have embraced it. More leveling and more left of the SP, is that what the Secretary of State stands for?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u281	I've just had 15 minutes to hear about the fourth disc. I think that Mr Van Dijck has heard the same speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u282	I have also heard the Secretary of State say that there is not enough support and that it does create jobs. So if we level far enough, we have a lot of jobs in the Netherlands. Then we have to go to the communist system that favours the SP, that is, all of us deserve the same, and then we have a lot of jobs. That's the new VVD line.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u283	I don't know who's being quoted here. I come to the amendment to item No. 10 (34304) by Mr Van Weyenberg. This concerns the combination of LKV (wage cost advantage) and LIV (low income benefit) and the elimination of the anti-cumulative effect, i.e. the promotion of cumulation. The idea is that this is already happening very exuberantly at the bottom of the labour market. The accumulation of further subsidies is no longer desirable. That is the opinion that my colleague from SZW could give. He could also add that Article 99 of his budget does not allow cover, because it is not freely available. Now I know that Mr Van Weyenberg is quite well at home in the SZW budget, but this is the judgment I get. I can't control it myself, but perhaps Mr Van Weyenberg can.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u284	To begin with, I do not think that nominal unforeseen is, by definition, mandatory. If you can't amend that anymore, it's gonna be extremely interesting. Then I can also get a battery of old coalition amendments, because I have seen that happen more often. Let me go back to the real content. I am also sorry that we cannot have this debate with the Minister for Social Affairs, and I say this with all due respect for the hard work of this Secretary of State's law. We are talking about very vulnerable people with disabilities. They're definitely not getting to work enough. We still have a great deal to do. What Mrs Schouten and I are trying to achieve with this amendment is to retain the advantage, the extra support in the back. The Secretary of State calls that almost a little pampering at the bottom. I'm really gonna distance myself from that. This is about very vulnerable people who we cannot get to work. I'll ask the Secretary of State again. There was always a relative advantage for this group. We now have guarantee jobs, but it is very difficult to get off the ground. Then isn't this the worst possible time to stop having that relative advantage of seducing an employer just to give someone a chance?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u285	This is the second time in two minutes I wonder who's being quoted. I distance myself from the word "pamper." I didn't use that word. What I am saying is that subsidies are being stacked here, and that is not desirable in the opinion of the trade union minister who is going to do so. Furthermore, I say that the cover is no good. When it comes to post unexpectedly, I can imagine a great deal of it, because if you cover something from the post unexpectedly, it is by definition foreseen and does not fit in with the post unexpectedly. But I'll leave that to my colleague.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u286	I think I've said enough about that cover. No, it's not unexpected anymore, which is why I'm taking it out of there and getting it a destination, this amendment. That seems to me to be a fairly logical course of action. The reason is, of course, that the Secretary of State for Social Affairs is constantly calling for attention to be paid to a vulnerable group in the labour market. The performance in this area has so far fallen, let me say mildly, not in all cases. We need to find 125,000 jobs that aren't there yet. I therefore regret that, with all the warm words, the cabinet is now putting aside a comparative advantage, of which two groups are proposing to retain it, quite easily. That disappoints me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u287	I'm gonna have to take note of that. I do not think I am the best substantive interlocutor in this area. I'm kind of the messenger here, but still with verve. Mr Bashir still has an opinion on why his amendment to No. 28 (34302) reduces the amount of employment. What's going on? The first disc goes down. Then you would say that workers at the bottom of the labour market are more left. As a matter of fact, the people in welfare are in that drive, too. There's more to them than that. The CPB mainly looks at the difference in remuneration between one and the other, and this does not change substantially. It is true that a larger proportion of the 5 billion goes to inactive people and is therefore less available to reduce the burden on labour. As a result, this will ultimately, and perhaps to a limited extent, cost employment rather than employment. I am in no way saying that these are very large numbers; I do not know that. So I'm not making any statements about that. With that we will pass through the remaining questions and amendments, but the machine is running at full speed, so perhaps we will have a pile again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u288	There is another amendment by Mr Schouten and Mr Dijkgraaf to point No. 49 (34302), but perhaps that amendment will be taken into account in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u289	Some amendments take so much thought and weigh so much politically that it is a little faint to say something about it in a curse and a sigh. So it deserves some study to do justice to what it says.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u290	The amendment in part No. 49 (34302) has indeed already been submitted for suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u291	I have the amendment here, so if it's okay, so does the Secretary of State. But since there are so many, something may have gone wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u292	I don't have it. It will also be looked at in terms of content, so it may also be in the process.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u293	That's what the Secretary of State will come back to. He'll get a copy, maybe he'll have to look at it carefully first.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u294	I find it disrespectful to say something about that in a moment. We're not gonna do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u295	Exactly. I think that's very good. I understand there is a need for a short suspension of 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u296	Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the CDA, I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his comprehensive replies, both in writing and orally, in the first term. It's a very special tax plan for me as a tax spokesperson. I've been in the Chamber for years. Very often you knew at the beginning of the first term what the outcome would be at the end of the second term. Then you already knew what the tax plan would look like. I say this as a member of a number of coalitions at the time and as a member of the opposition. It was stuck. This is the first time that, as we have said, the debate on the precise design of the tax plan takes place where it should take place, namely in the House of Representatives. This is Parliament's front room. I also note that the Secretary of State also seems to have some fun discussing the improvement of the EUR 5 billion tax relief package, the first burden relief package of this cabinet, in public. Compliments for that. For the CDA, that has always been the approach. We are in favour of a 5 billion reduction package. From the outset, we have indicated that there are a number of possible improvements to the distribution. As has already been pointed out in all the debates, this concerns the position of the single-earners and the elderly. The CDA Group has also tabled amendments to this effect. The reaction of the Secretary of State, but also of the coalition, is clear: the belief in the operation of the IACK is almost absolute and it is preferable that we do not interfere with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u297	I would like to comment on Mr Omtzigt's speech. He just complimented the cabinet on the relief of charges. He also said: we have to do something about the one-earners and two-earners...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u298	One earners and older people.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u299	One earners and older people. I meant the difference between one earner and two earners. The CDA wants to do something about that difference. How can I rhyme with the next one? Single people in the Netherlands, who are also sole earners, are apparently not allowed to have a partner from the CDA, because the single people are mercilessly hard hit by the CDA. Why does the CDA do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u300	This question by Mr Van Vliet surprises me. Three tax plans back, Mr Van Vliet and I have shown together that, as two single parents, that his single people were also living together in this country and they were not tax partners, they together lost more than €10,000, and in some cases €12,000 or €13,000, in surcharges and tax rebates. So the assumption with which Mr Van Vliet, as well as a number of other spokesmen, begins, namely that you are going to pay less tax if you are going to live together, is totally untrue. It's often the other way around.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u301	That's not what I'm talking about. I am referring to an amendment tabled by Mrs Keijzer, a colleague of Mr Omtzigt's group. Mrs Keijzer tabled an amendment during the debate on the VWS budget last week because she wants something with the WMO. To cover that amendment, it removes EUR 200 million of healthcare allowance from all single people in the Netherlands, because it would be a non-targeted benefit. All the single people are getting horribly caught with this. 200 million! That's impossible, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u302	At the moment, by far the bulk of the care allowance goes to single people, not to couples. In this respect, the phasing-out is much shorter. Two single people can also have much more income together than a couple before losing the care allowance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u303	I too am surprised that Mr Omtzigt starts with this tax plan for the change about single-earners and two-earners. In 2009, I asked Chamber questions. Then there was a secretary of state for the CDA house. There was nothing going on back then. There was nothing wrong with the difference between the single earner and the two earner. We could go to sleep quietly. I did not hear Mr Omtzigt at the time. He was also spokesperson for taxes back then. Why has the CDA done nothing all these years, when it was on the buttons, to reduce the difference or keep it equal, but at least not to make it bigger?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u304	One small correction in advance. In 2009 I was not a spokesperson for taxation, but I was just a member of the Finance Committee. So I followed that closely. Since 2009, the differences have risen rapidly. The Christian Union and the SGP have pointed out the portability of the tax rebate, but I will mention a number of other things. The IACK is very heavily pushed up and is now pushed up with €600. This will make the difference greater. For the single parent working, the single parent has been introduced into the child-related budget. That's $3.050 a year. The difference between sole earners and two earners is also increased by a substantial increase in the employment discount. That means you have one less job discount with a non-working partner. This means that the total difference, which is now calculated at around €8,000, was a number of thousands of euros less a few years ago. So it is the totality, the accumulation of all these tax measures that leads to the too big a difference. In the infographics of the CDA there is also "too big a difference."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u305	Finally, Mr Bashir.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u306	The longer the answer, the more explanation is needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u307	You guys need to be short, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u308	Who was in Balkenende I, Balkenende II, Balkenende III and Balkenende IV? That was the CDA. Who was in Rutte I? The CDA. The difference didn't just happen. The difference has been created by the policy that has been implemented year in, year in. And who was on the buttons? Mr Omtzigt's party.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u309	That wasn't a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u310	The tax knowledge of the SP spokesperson is extremely disappointing to me, because the introduction of the single parent of €3.050 took place in this cabinet, in the Children's Reform Schemes Act. The sharp increase in the IACK has also taken place here. The build-up and reduction of the labour discount, which was slightly above €2,000 a few years ago and now goes to €3,200, so €1,200 extra difference, all happened under this cabinet. So the major changes have taken place over the last three years. I hope Mr Bashir knows that very precisely.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u311	I couldn't agree more. It is indeed about the accumulation, the leveling and the income dependency that have been introduced here by this VVD Secretary of State. But Mr Omtzigt now has the opportunity to send home this terrible levelling cabinet by not supporting this Tax Plan. Why doesn't he just do that? He's thinking too constructively. He's going to vote in favour of a few extra tens for the breadwinners, but with that he doesn't fix all those stacks and that €8,000 difference with the two earners.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u312	For the first time, there is a reduction in the burden. I also note that the PVV Group has now intervened fifteen times with spokesmen in this Tax Plan: why does it not vote against so that it can send the cabinet home? At the same time, it has tabled zero amendments on how it would like to shape the Tax Plan. That's a way of making politics that's not mine.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u313	If I wanted to fix this Tax Plan, and all the other mistakes made by the cabinet regarding care for the elderly and student funding, I would have to write an election programme. Then I have to table 1,000 amendments. The CDA has the opportunity, by voting against this Tax Plan, to send this cabinet home. The CDA does not do that, so it supports the dismantling of care for the elderly, the study funding, the rents, the housing market and pensions. I do not want to hear any more of that from Mr Omtzigt, because he is abandoning the cabinet. We don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u314	Oh, well, the Freedom Party telling me that I can't be heard about anything anymore is another novel. Today, however, there is a tax plan for this. My group voted against the study advance and disagreed with the way in which the landlord levy was introduced. We have made constructive counter-proposals in this Chamber and we continue to do so, whether we are in the government or in the opposition.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u315	For the record, this is a second term. I suggest you don't interrupt indefinitely. Otherwise, I'm gonna have to limit the number of interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u316	To improve the position of the single earner, SGP, ChristenUnion and CDA have worked together on a new alternative. That will be a set of amendments that will be tabled in the short term. In our joint proposal, 200 million more will be released. The Secretary of State asked for a joint proposal to see if he could find enough support. 200 million will be used to increase family allowances and 200 million will be used to increase the portability of the general tax rebate. Moreover, it will be phased out in the long term. So I am not talking about the amendment passed on by the CPB, which Mr Dijkgraaf has already explained. This can be covered from the 5 billion package, for example from a smaller reduction in the second and third disks. In addition, the CDA has called for attention to be paid to the position of older people. In particular, the abolition of the old-age allowance affects people who are still entitled to a rent allowance but who lose the right of one day completely because they are going to pay a capital return charge. We want to resolve this by introducing a transitional arrangement for this limited group. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that due to the expiry of the elderly allowance in box 3 as of 1 January 2016, elderly people with a small supplementary pension who have saved for their old age may lose their entire rent allowance;]] [[considers that it is unreasonable for those AOWs who have no or no supplementary pension to lose their entire rent allowance;]] [[calls on the Government, for older people who were entitled to a rent allowance in 2015 by using the elderly allowance in box 3, to establish transitional rights so that they continue to be entitled to the rent allowance if they meet the other conditions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Omtzigt, Mr Schouten and Mr Dijkgraaf. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34302-54]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u317	I have two questions. The first question concerns the amendment announced by Mr Omtzigt. I haven't been able to read that in detail. Let me ask the positive question: how much job growth does that yield? Or maybe it costs jobs and how much? My second question concerns the motion. Now do I understand that it is uncovered or is there coverage provided?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u318	We ask for coverage from the 5 billion package. We couldn't get the money around. According to the Secretary of State, he said this in the first term "a group of 5,000 households." If we take into account an average rent supplement of about €2,000, we're guessing that this is 10 million. We find this amount within the 5 billion package, for which coverage has just been indicated. With his second question, Mr Van Weyenberg is quite right. I will also ask the cabinet that question. I will add one more question. What were the effects in the CPB models, which I have some criticism of, of the last two tax plans? The D66 Group was in favour of this. According to the models, did these plans create net jobs or cost net jobs? Perhaps Mr Van Weyenberg can help me with that. What was the answer to that again?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u319	Mr Omtzigt is making it a bit furry now. When things had to be put in order with painful measures, the CDA did not participate. Now there is money, and yes, with money you can buy job growth, and then the CDA blames other parties for taking responsibility for putting the budget in order. These are, of course, incomparable quantities. Mr Omtzig knows this very well. I await the transfer of the amendment. I assume this is done by the CPB, according to the CPB's rules of the game. We'll see about that. Mr Omtzigt has announced this and I agree with his request. Furthermore, I await the answer of the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u320	Everyone knows Mr. Omtzigt as a mathematician with insight into the models. Of course, the CPB is doing very valuable work, but if an amendment is requested to be passed through, it has to pass it on or say: we cannot pass it on. Does Mr Omtzig think that it is not a good thing if there are reports on an amendment that has not been tabled at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u321	The request is for the amendment and its long-term effects to be calculated in accordance with what happens in the long term with the reduction of the general tax rebate and the transferability of the general tax rebate, to be very precise for the group of people born before 1963. They also went to 0 in Mr Dijkgraaf's previous amendment in the long term, while it would go up in the long term and remain constant in the CPB pass-through. I think Mr Dijkgraaf would like to do that in his heart, but that was not in the amendment. I therefore request that the transfer be made to the amendment tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u322	A brief question, Mr Van Dijck.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u323	I do not know if any more will be said about the amendment or whether this was it, but if I listen to it that way, it does not matter whether you are bitten by the dog or the cat. You raise taxes on labour and give it back to the householders. Is that the solution and the trigger to support this plan?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u324	This plan is the middle of the two amendments tabled by the SGP Group and the CDA Group in the field of single-earners. Having also heard the cabinet, we let go of the cover that we would have preferred to have taken out of the IACK. Most people here forget that the IACK has been raised to such an extent that there is a cashing problem for at least 50,000 people. No matter how you raise it, these people don't get the IACK anyway. Anyway, let me put that aside. So we have been looking for an alternative way of covering in the Tax Plan. If, by the way, you find this cover annoying: the D66 Group has just tabled an amendment which significantly increases the third disc more than the one we have just announced in the three of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u325	But D66 is also making terrible amendments, so that does not appeal to me. I am concerned that the single-earners also suffer from a tax increase in the second and third disks. In other words, what does it do for the purchasing power of the single earners and what does it do for the gap between the two earners and the single? Because whether you are bitten by the dog or the cat: you raise taxes and give back a little bit in child support.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u326	It's a combination of an increase and a reduction. In the direction of a number of other people, I would like to say that we leave 4.5 billion burden relief intact as proposed by the coalition. We're about to have a shift in the package of about 500 million. That's the issue we're talking about right now. This relief is indeed aimed at families with children. Our CPB transfer, which was also requested by the PVV Group, shows that this is quite necessary. I'm moving on. I would have stayed on the motion on the elderly I just filed. It is, of course, only a limited improvement in the position of older people, because they do not come out too well in the 5 billion package. It is better than at the beginning of the summer, but in view of the fact that there is an occasional improvement for older people in 2016, we want the Cabinet to clarify their position in 2017. That's why I'm tabling the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the reduction in the elderly discount has only been reversed for 2016, but that the Tax Plan still provides for a substantial reduction from 2017 onwards;]] [[Whereas it is desirable that the elderly discount should continue to be maintained for 2017;]] [[Considering that the government does not want to look at the purchasing power of older people until the summer of 2016 as of 2017;]] [[calls on the government, in the 2017 Tax Plan, to give the purchasing power repair a structural character,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Omtzigt, Mr Schouten and Mr Dijkgraaf. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34302-55]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u327	I see an enthusiastic 50PLUS group against me, Mr President. The general point is the principle of carrying capacity. A tax plan is not the right time to have an in-depth discussion about when you want to use behavioral incentives and when you're talking about the weight principle. We would like a general study to be carried out. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a number of behavioural incentives may accumulate in the tax system in such a way that the principle of carrying capacity can be reduced;]] [[noting that those behavioural incentives may be unreasonable for taxable persons who cannot demonstrate the intended conduct;]] [[calls on the Government to identify where the load-bearing principle comes into play through tax incentives and the groups involved, and to inform the Court of Justice of this before 1 April 2016,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Omtzigt, Mr Dijkgraaf and Mr Schouten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34302-56]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u328	For taxpayers who cannot show the intended behaviour, I am thinking of people who are sick or disabled and who have no other source of income, i.e. no WIA benefit and no WW.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u329	I understand that Mr Omtzigt wishes to have this investigated by the cabinet, but does it not amount to some kind of motion of censure against the Central Planning Bureau, which is supposed to show these kinds of effects? If people can't respond to behavioral impulses, is the CPB supposed to have knowledge of those kind of road leak effects?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u330	This is not a leak in technical terms. The CPB is considered to calculate the behavioural effects of this. In that large group there are people who can show the intended amount. Liberal parties have always paid a lot of attention to this: if you can work, you have to work. The CDA has quite a sympathy for that. However, we note that the social standard has changed from a single earner to a two-earner household. Among the 15-25 age group, the employment rate of girls is even higher than that of boys. The whole idea that that other group, that residual group, needs incentives, is perhaps absent because that social standard has changed. There are more and more people in this group who cannot work and a lot less people who can work but choose not to. We would like to give that last group an extra incentive. The Secretary of State says that these people can get the incentive they deserve. It's that first group that's getting bigger and bigger. We want that insight better mapped out. That is what we want to do at a time that is separate from the Tax Plan, so that we can consider quietly whether measures are needed which are disputed by a number of people here and, if so, which might be.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u331	The answers really need to be shorter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u332	The Labour Party is always for more insight, but Mr Omtzigt apparently points to a blind spot at the Central Planning Office. Shouldn't the CPB be instructed to do some self-examination? Isn't that the royal road anymore?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u333	If the Cabinet wants this to be carried out by the Central Planning Bureau, it has my support, but I would prefer it to be done together with the Nibud in that case. The Nibud has already shown extensive insight into what happens to the sole earners.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u334	The Secretary of State has not answered one of my first questions, and I would now like to put that question to Mr Omtzigt. The question is linked to his motion in which he asks for research into certain effects. My question, to which the Secretary of State once again did not reply, was about the report of the Van Dijkhuizen Committee. At the time, Mr Dijkgraaf of the SGP wanted to investigate life-form-neutral taxation. The research of the Van Dijkhuizen Committee has cost a lot of money and the report contains quite interesting things, including a lot of numerical insights. Shouldn't we be pulling that report from la 3 of wardrobe 17?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u335	The report is apparently still in exactly the same drawer as Mr Van Vliet put it in yesterday. I am totally in favour of talking about it again, but I note that one of the central things that needs to be reformed in the tax system is the surcharges. The proposal for the supplements in Van Dijkhuizen's report, namely the household allowance, proved impossible, however hard the parties and this State Secretary have tried to do so. So I would like to talk about it again, but I admit that there will have to be an update or a supplement for a number of plans. Mr. Chairman. I will continue with my other points. On box 3, the Secretary of State and the CDA Group disagree. We have now exchanged the arguments on legal sustainability. What is interesting in the written reply is the remark that it is a loss to the treasury in the event of a forecasted return in Robeco's assets! 400 million a year if all the assets that have an interest in this move to box 2. That is a result of behavioural effects, which we still do not estimate. We have seen what this means with regard to excise duties and other car taxes. So that is almost as much money as our amendment involves. That's a risk. The box 2 flight costs the state somewhere between zero and 400 million. The Secretary of State estimates budget neutrality, but probably loses half a billion dollars, so we'll get that on our plate in a few years. I have often drawn attention to the mineralogical processes. It will therefore not surprise the Secretary of State that I am not only looking with great sympathy at Mr Bashir's amendment but also at his replies to the comments of the Secretary of State on coverage. I am not yet reassured about the unreal loan and the double taxation of general interest relief restrictions. I think that the issue of the non-business loan will also come back to the First Chamber and I am considering an amendment on the question of double taxation. The government too easily ignores the fact that its proposal leads to double taxation. The Parent-Subsidiary Directive has only two ways: an exemption or taxation under foreign tax netting. The comparison with non-deductible interest charged in the Netherlands does not apply, as interest is not covered by the Directive and has nothing to do with the holding exemption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u336	In the first term, but also earlier, Mr Omtzigt always talked about the additional combination discount. He's not a fan of that; we could see that. It's off the table now, and I'm happy about that. As far as I'm concerned, it's a good thing that this job ticket is gone.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u337	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u338	For this, the partial recovery of the countertop subsidy comes in place. I have never heard Mr Omtzigt say about this, but apparently he also thinks that the phasing out of the countertop subsidy is such a problem that he is now going to free up money to reverse a measure that entered into force in 2009 under Prime Minister Balkenende.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u339	The phasing-out is being phased out, just as it has been timed for beneficiaries in the government agreement. Nota bene the D66 Group has agreed to this by voting in favour of the bill that contained it. A joint package of 17 First Chamber seats has been requested. We have done our best to achieve this, and this has resulted in a combination of the SGP amendment, which contains it, and the CDA amendment on child benefit. We stand for the whole package, but you can see what the route of the CDA was when you look at both amendments. We consider this to be a significant improvement on the 5 billion package before us.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u340	Mr Omtzigt's other example was about the impact on benefits, and that is, of course, something quite different. I note that Mr Omtzigt makes the choice to join the attack of the Christian Union and the SGP on the reduction of the countertop subsidy, once started by Mr Balkenende. I take note of that and I look forward very much to passing on the CPB on the job effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u341	I have two completely different questions. I'm gonna ask them both. Mr Omtzigt has repeatedly said that cutting the proposals for box 3 was a very important and hard point for him. He has also tabled an amendment to it. Is this obstacle now off the table when the amendment of the CDA and the Christian Union and the SGP is adopted?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u342	The answer to that is that I have looked around in the Chamber and seen there that it seems that there are 137 Chamber seats to continue with the current box 3. Even if it is cut loose, it will be immediately adopted in that form. This means that there are 13 seats, namely those of the CDA Group, which do not think it is a well-designed plan. I maintain our amendment on behalf of the CDA. I also want to be expected to vote against that part of the law, because I think it is simply unwise. However, in view of the whole package before us, rejection of the amendment is not an obstacle for the CDA to vote in favour of the proposed Tax Plan. We believe that the other two points we have raised will be adequately met.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u343	That creates clarity, for which I am grateful. It is difficult to assess an amendment which is not yet in place and which can be so complex in its effect. If I understand correctly, you're taking 400 million or 500 million out of the second and third disks.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u344	400 million.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u345	Half of them go to family allowances and the other half to the single earners. Now the full 400 million will be raised by all taxpayers, including the single-earners, and 200 million will be locked back. How many more do you think they're gonna get out of it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u346	As far as I have been able to pass it on, the net earners still have a higher purchasing power increase, mediaally, than for the sole earners. So it is not the case that the single earners suffer from this tax plan. In fact, the sharp increase in the working discount will continue to greatly improve the number of single workers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u347	Mr. Chairman. We have now debated the Tax Plan for about 30 hours. A lot has been said, a lot of arguments have been exchanged and a lot of proposals have come along. I will avoid repeating myself, but I will try to summarize a little what my observations are and what our final considerations are going to be. This cabinet is based on the Labour Party and the VVD. If we tackle the coalition agreement, we can see that there is something very crucial in it, namely that an income picture with more demand as income increases will be the starting point. When I look at the facts and take the figures, I see that people who earn less than 175% of the statutory minimum wage, half of them, no, even a quarter of those who earn more than 500% of WML, for example. If you look at the intermediate groups, you can even see a quarter of what those other groups are making progress on. I can only conclude that the coalition agreement is not being fulfilled. The Labour Party and the VVD have written fine words in favour of the Labour Party, but the policy being pursued is VVD policy. In any case, we have tried to do our bit to deliver on the real coalition agreement, in order to support the PvdA a little. To this end, we have tabled an amendment aimed at not extending the limit of the fourth and third discs and using that money to reduce the rate in the first disc. That's how you lower taxes on everyone. That is so fair when you have EUR 5 billion to distribute. If you distribute EUR 5 billion, it is fair that the money also goes to the people who have turned in a lot in recent years. For example, they are also people who used to work: pensioners. They no longer work, they are inactive, and they cannot do anything about it. You can't encourage them to go to work, either, because they're retired and they must be retired. It would be fair to meet those people as well. I'm coming up on the capabilities. As far as the SP Group is concerned, we are really moving towards taxing real gains. Of course, this cannot be done as of 1 January 2016. If we had wanted to do so, the Chamber and the Cabinet should have listened to the SP much earlier. We could have done this years ago. I remember having tabled a motion on box 3 in 2009. At that time, I found that the returns that were used, 4% fictitious returns, were too low. I wanted to get to real returns. I also said at the time: if you think things are going less well, then we have a time when we can use lower returns. If we had, we would have been a lot further. As far as we are concerned, we need to take these steps now. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in the Chamber there is a broad shared desire to tax real return on capital rather than a flat-rate return;]] [[calls on the Government to submit proposals to the 2017 Tax Plan for a real return on capital as of 2018,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bashir, Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Grashoff. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34302-57]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u348	The proposal now before us is at least a step in the right direction. However, it has to be made clear that at least the gaps will be closed when the proposal enters into force on 1 January 2017. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there are several routes to delay or avoid box 2 and box 3 charges;]] [[calls on the government to come forward with proposals to close these shortcuts before the summer recess,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bashir and Mr Groot. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34302-58]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u349	We have tabled an amendment on greening. The Secretary of State says that he agrees that metallurgical and mineralogic processes are exempted. However, he does not agree with the coverage. Let me rephrase the question. Instead of seeing what can't be done, I'm asking the Secretary of State what can. We are concerned that jobs should be preserved for the Netherlands and that these companies, which really have an added value for the Dutch economy, should not disappear. The coverage we have found in the electricity tax for large consumers is due to the fact that, if you look at what we are paying now and what we are going to pay, the electricity tax is only increased by very little. This increase will also have the side effect of promoting biogas. However, if the Secretary of State says that it is impossible and that he prefers a different coverage, I think that many parties in the Chamber agree with us that there should be an exemption for this and I would like to hear from the Secretary of State what. Finally, the legislative proposals. As I said earlier, we can support the proposal on the implementation of Common Reporting Standards. We can also support the legislative proposal for other fiscal measures. The same applies to the bill on the implementation of the Parent-Subsidiary Directive and to the bill on the Benefits Exemption Article 2-Funds. However, we do have problems with the bill of compensation and pay domain. We have tabled an amendment on this. We also have difficulty with the 2016 Tax Plan. We have also tabled several amendments on this subject and put forward proposals. Depending on what happens to those amendments and our proposals, we will ultimately consider them in the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u350	Mr. Chairman. We have devoted many hours to the Tax Plan; Mr Bashir has already said so. I would like to thank the Secretary of State and his staff for all the answers and for the very hard work that has been done to make these plans and to answer all the questions from the Chamber. That wasn't easy. It is a special tax plan, because after years in which the government had to put its budget in order, there were resources for a large-scale tax reform and tax reduction. This led to great ambitions at the start of this process: 100,000 jobs had to generate this large-scale tax reform. Jobs for which the Netherlands urgently awaits now that 600,000 people are still involuntarily unemployed at home. They want nothing more than to get back to work tomorrow. With this approach, the D66 Group also started the debate and all the discussions on it. How do we ensure that work is paid more and that it is paid more to employ people so that we can promote employment? How do we ensure that we are finally going to improve the climate and reduce pollution? D66 has made many proposals for this. This was also necessary, because the original ambition of 100,000 jobs has unfortunately not been achieved. The counter stalled at 35,000 and the cabinet was already willing to do something about it. D66 submitted a proposal after a proposal to make the plans greener and to increase the work of the plans. That sometimes leads to special moments today. I have never seen an amendment accuse it of creating too many jobs. This D66 amendment to spend more money within the 5 billion package on job reduction, childcare and the wage of working by parents with young children who both want to stay at work has been criticised. That was the argument by which the Secretary of State rejected the amendment. This is also true, because this would lead to more than 10,000 jobs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u351	I have two comments on job creation. Mr Van Weyenberg says that D66 has made many proposals for this. D66 could have done that before, by staying at the table in the summer. Perhaps we could have achieved a much more ambitious tax plan. This wasn't meant to be. I do not think that the D66 proposals would create too many jobs. The Secretary of State made another remark, namely that this would not be conducive to the support of this whole Tax Plan. It is good that Mr Van Weyenberg expresses his conviction, but what has he done to ensure that this Tax Plan can continue and at least create a number of jobs? The alternative is to create zero jobs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u352	In my view, this interruption by Mr Groot is more aimed at explaining why he might go along with plans by other parties, which lead to less jobs than the 35,000 mentioned above, and therefore brings some black pies into play. Mr Groot has to wait a while, because it is not yet 5 December. The conclusion is that we had a plan that would make the step to work and to work more hours, for partners who both want it, pay more. I would like to make proposals to this effect. Moreover, this plan is partly covered by increasing the tax rate for some higher incomes. That is precisely why I expected more enthusiasm from Mr Groot.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u353	Mr Van Weyenberg does not answer my question. What efforts has he made to give this plan a broad support so that, as it is called, landing rights will be created for the D66 proposals?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u354	We have, of course, worked hard on this before the summer. I'm afraid it wasn't there at the time. At Princess Day, we presented a tax plan which does not create 35,000 jobs but 75,000 jobs, and it achieves 1.5 billion to combat pollution. We have submitted such plans. We have also tabled motions to the General Political Reviews and to the General Financial Reviews. In the end, it has always been up to the coalition parties whether or not they wanted to help them reach a majority. I have noted that a motion to do more about greening has unfortunately not received the support of Mr Groot's group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u355	I am a little annoyed by Mr Van Weyenberg. He's always talking about more jobs, but he means he's looking after more job seekers. Mr Van Weyenberg lives in a CPB reality with models that say, for example, that if you increase the childcare allowance, you get more jobs. No, you'll get more people willing to take a job. That doesn't give you a job. If Mr Van Weyenberg really wants jobs, he must ensure that people get more money in their pockets, by lowering VAT and by making the products cheaper. This will get the economy going, produce the industry and create more jobs. However, Mr Van Weyenberg is focusing on more job-seekers, but we already have 600,000 job-seekers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u356	Making sure that workers get more money for child care. This is very expensive. This is an increase in the employment rate, and we are making sure that they will be more generous if they both work and that work is going to pay, which is really investing in making wages for work. Mr Van Dijck obviously wants to deal with it differently. That is right, and if he puts forward an amendment to that effect, I will think very carefully about it. I have many colleagues with me on this amendment, I think we are now waiting for it. We make a completely different choice and then there will be more jobs. I strongly recommend it to Mr Van Dijck. Yes, with the amendment we are trying to convince the Chamber. I'm doing this idea with love, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u357	Charge lighting creates jobs, but Mr Van Weyenberg gives people who already have jobs a little more in the wallet. That's a very select group, but those people already have a job. We have 600,000 people on the sidelines looking for a job. The incentives introduced by Mr Van Weyenberg mean that those people are not yet getting a job, because that job is not there. The incentive is that more people are looking for work because it is more interesting to go to work, but there must be jobs. The only way to get these jobs is by reducing the burden and reducing VAT, but I do not hear Mr Van Weyenberg on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u358	I think our plans lead to 75,000 additional jobs. That seems to me to be good news for a lot of job seekers. Mr Van Dijck chooses a different reality. That's okay, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u359	A brief question: does Mr Van Weyenberg say that it is simply the family's fault that every single earner's family is a earner?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u360	No. I didn't say that at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u361	Okay. So there are also cases where I have already named them 'extremely' where one is a earner because of the illness or disability of a child or partner or because of involuntary unemployment. Mr Van Weyenberg is putting all these groups even further behind in his amendment. How is he going to justify this gap between the two who can earn a family income and the people who can't?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u362	I regularly agree with Mrs Schouten on the subject of content, but make a different ideological assessment and a different choice of principle. That is why this was a nice debate, because it was about something. However, I regret that Mrs Schouten does not quite accurately reflect the words I have spoken in the first term. I said two things at the time. Firstly, Mrs Schouten then referred to the TOG plus for people who have the care of a seriously ill or disabled child; the Secretary of State had previously offered an opening. Mrs Schouten also heard me say that I thought that was a good proposal; I even asked for it. So she doesn't seem right to me with her summary. Secondly, a single earner with a minimum wage or with a modal salary receives more labour discount in D66's plan. So it's getting better with us, too. I regret that Mrs Schouten is pretending that I am hitting people in their pockets, because that is not the case. I make a different choice in the use of resources.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u363	I didn't ask if they'd get a lower income. I asked for justification for widening the gap. This widening of the gap is indeed a real consequence of the D66 amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u364	Mrs Schouten referred to "putting behind." I note that these groups are improving on me. So we want to set up the burden relief so that work will pay more. As far as I'm concerned, it's clear. The choices of the cabinet are also clear. I have one more question in that regard. We have just seen the amendment announced by Mr Omtzigt, on behalf of Mr Dijkgraaf of the SGP and Mr Schouten of the Christian Union. Today, a CPB transfer of the previous amendment by Mr Schouten and Mr Dijkgraaf has been published. I assume that we will receive the same kind of CPB note before the vote tomorrow morning with the employment effects of this amendment. I assume that this will be calculated in the same way as the CPB always does independently, in the same way that we saw today on the CPB website. That's what the Treasury had asked for. I assume that the CPB has now been asked to do the same for the other amendment. Then we in the Chamber know what we must vote on. The second thing that disappoints my group is the greening of the package. That's clear. My group has made many suggestions for this. For example, together with the SP, we have tabled an amendment on coal taxation. The same applies to the higher employment discount. There are also amendments relating to the grant exemption, to which I have heard a lot of positive reactions in the Chamber, to ensure that people can also donate €100,000 in pieces for their own home. I really hope for the support of the Chamber to broaden the regime that has been extended by the Cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u365	I'm sure that was sympathetic, but is it necessary to have three years in a row? Or is it a possibility that Mr Van Weyenberg's amendment shows that these three years are not in line? For example, if a parent wishes to give to his child and six years later again, for example because the child is divorced in the meantime and makes a fresh start or because the parent has been given some extra money, then that is not possible with the amendment. Will Mr Van Weyenberg arrange that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u366	The amendment aims to allow the child to be donated as long as the child is between 18 and 40. That's why it costs pretty serious money, 67 million. You can also give a child of 20 €20,000 at the time of purchase and ten years later another amount. The fear that Mr Omtzigt had is precisely the reason why we have opted for a more comprehensive and, therefore, more costly amendment, because it meets the need for which I also hear Mr Omtzigt argue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u367	We did indeed have an earlier amendment. There can indeed be donated unlimited until the age of 40.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u368	That age limit is not because I like to do age limits very much, but because the cabinet has indicated that you are otherwise stuck with inheritance taxes and it seems to cost a lot more money.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u369	Mr Omtzigt welcomed the amendment. That surprises me very much, given the coverage, namely an increase in tobacco duty. Again, there he goes again. If you look at an increase in tobacco duty, then you should also look at the border effects. They're getting another impulse. Normally Mr Omtzig is also concerned about this, but not now because it is such a sympathetic amendment. I was very surprised that the Secretary of State said 'judgement chamber', because the amendment once again leads to a tax increase with yet again ugly border effects. What does the author of the amendment, Mr Van Weyenberg, think of the fact that these border effects will increase again?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u370	I do not think it is very justifiable that the excise duty per cigarette of smoking tobacco, shag, is so much lower than for a pack of filter cigarettes. We therefore consider this cover to be justified.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u371	Finally, Mr Van Vliet. You don't have to? I like that very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u372	He's probably convinced.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u373	I'm probably gonna let you convince me, too. It's about the grant waiver. Mr Van Weyenberg lays a fairly arbitrary border at 40 years. Why should there be an age limit in the amendment at all? It's about people who make their own choices, right? When you're 41, you don't get that grant exemption, and when you're 40, you do. What is the fundamental reason for Mr Van Weyenberg to include this age limit in the amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u374	I didn't think of that line. It was in the cabinet proposal. I'm broadening the cabinet proposal. I have nothing against higher age limits in principle. I should've just found more cover. This amendment takes this proposal from the cabinet, which contains these limits, and makes much more room in it. We have now made this a priority.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u375	It is a little too easy for Mr Van Weyenberg to hide behind the cabinet. Of course, you can change everything; that is why he has tabled the amendment. He might as well say: we do not want an age limit in the amendment and we seek the appropriate cover. Wouldn't that have been a much more realistic option?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u376	I thought it was very important to make it possible for people who wish to donate to me to be really happy that this amendment does not have to be your own child, but that you can choose someone to do it in parts rather than in one go. I think that is a big step forward. Mr Klein wishes to make another proposal. If he has an amendment that is nicely covered, that is not bad for work and that I like, then I will take a serious look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u377	Let me remind you that we are working for an hour and Mr Van Weyenberg is the second or third speaker. It is the second time and you have been debating this for 30 hours.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u378	There is also an amendment I tabled with Mr Dijkgraaf on the Wbso. I have also just tabled an amendment apologizing for the late hour, to refer to the existing definition of "software" in terms of ICT innovation and investment. I am getting the message from the ICT sector that concerns are being expressed that the cabinet proposal may unintentionally lead to problems. I hope the Secretary of State will go along with that. There is also an amendment that I tabled together with Mr Schouten concerning the extra push on employers' part to employ people with disabilities at the top of LIV. There is also the amendment on the postcode rose tabled by Mr Grashoff, Mr Schouten and myself. I've got four more motions. A motion has already been read out by Mr Bashir on my behalf. I have four motions. I'll read it to you soon. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Germany has introduced a toll for trucks and Belgium intends to do so;]] [[Whereas road tolls for heavy goods vehicles contribute to a better living environment;]] [[Calls on the Government to make a concrete proposal in the 2017 Tax Plan for the introduction of a toll for heavy goods vehicles in the Netherlands;]] [[calls on the government also to use the toll revenue for lower labour charges,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Weyenberg, Mr Bashir and Mr Grashoff. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34302-59]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u379	We have an amendment on coal taxation, but I also have a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that CO emissions are a problem for climate change and that the Netherlands should contribute to a solution to this problem by reducing its own CO emissions;]] [[noting that coal plants are among the largest CO emitters in the Netherlands and that they also emit particulate matter, nitrogen and mercury with effects on health and the environment;]] [[Notes that new coal power plants will no longer be granted on Dutch territory;]] [[Calls on the Government to phase out the Dutch coal plants and to draw up a plan with the sector for this purpose, taking into account the growth of the share renewable, the legal and financial aspects, potential carbon leakage effects from CO to abroad and security of supply of energy and innovation, and to inform the Court of Justice about this in the review of the energy agreement in 2016,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Weyenberg and Van Veldhoven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34302-60]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u380	To keep trying to get some green in the Tax Plan, I'm filing the final motion in that area. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the energy load on public charging stations in particular is a bottleneck for the transition to electric driving;]] [[Whereas the European Energy Taxation Directive is a barrier to adaptation in this field;]] [[calls on the Government to come forward with a workable proposal and to submit a request for derogation to the European Commission,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Grashoff. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34302-61]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u381	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for saying that this might have been something that could have been done. We've talked a lot about it. Finally, I have another motion to ensure that the low income benefit also has maximum effect. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the introduction of the low income advantage makes it more attractive for employers to employ people with a salary between 100% and 120% of the statutory minimum wage;]] [[noting that the average starting level of regular lowest wage scales in collective agreements is 105% of the statutory minimum wage;]] [[Whereas a reduction in the average start-up level of regular lowest wage scales increases the effectiveness of the low-income benefit, allowing employment at the bottom of the labour market to grow further;]] [[calls on the government to urge social partners to reduce the starting level of regular lowest wage scales and to inform the Chamber of the outcome of this call in spring 2016,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Weyenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34302-62]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u382	When we look at this Tax Plan at the end of the day, I hope we have succeeded in creating more jobs and more greening and not less. I honestly did not think that a proposal such as that to partially restore the countertop subsidy could count on a majority.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u383	Mr. Chairman. We are approaching the end of a marathon debate or actually a debate that was a combination of a marathon and a hurdle walk. The Secretary of State had to take the lead in that. I congratulate him on his stamina, his intellectual agility and his indestructible mood throughout the process. Last time I dealt with a number of issues. Now I'm doing it again. Firstly, I am not entirely satisfied with the answers to the questions on the Parent-Subsidiary Directive, but I understand the time now. This subject also comes back. After all, we have another debate planned on Base Erosion and Profit Shifting. However, I would recommend to the Secretary of State that I leave it to it to send a few officials to look into the tax advisory practice of how the tightening of the Parent-Subsidiary Directive is structured, including through Irish companies. Then he's better off getting caught up in the debate that's about to come. I thank the Secretary of State for the commitments on the Wbso. I have heard him clearly say that if this regulation is exceeded, it will be withdrawn from the same large companies. That gives an extra lock on the door to the amendment tabled by Mr Van Weyenberg. Thanks also for the State Secretary's commitment to regulate the VAT exemption for partnerships of general practitioners by policy decision. In the meantime, we have tabled an amendment to this effect, which requires funding of EUR 30 million. All the obvious covers were up and are also needed to knit the Tax Plan, so we have chosen to do only €0.01 at the soft drinks taxes. This is how the amendment can be covered. I would like to hear the State Secretary's opinion on this method of cover. Can he do the many? I would also like to thank the Secretary of State for leaving the opinion on the amendment on the FBI, the anti-avoidance measure, to the Chamber. We're going to increase the flat-rate return on these FBIs to 5.5%. This ultimately does not lead to more tax liability, but rather to a liquidity disadvantage for investors in these exempted investment funds. That will discourage the flight from box 3 to such investment funds. In this respect, I am also counting on the warm support of Mr Omtzigt, who has identified the risk of tax avoidance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u384	I am going to interrupt you, because Mr Grashoff wants to interrupt you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u385	Mr Groot mentions one point after another as if we were dealing with the last piece, the handling of a tax plan. In my view, it is now a matter of the fact that a proposal has just been introduced, at 5:12 p.m., which could have the essence that this Tax Plan may also be able to reach a majority in the Upper Chamber. It seems logical to me that Mr Groot should start by expressing an opinion on this, that he should say what he thinks about it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u386	Many amendments have been tabled and many motions have been tabled. They form a very big puzzle with each other. Sometimes coverage rules out each other. Tomorrow morning, as a group, we are going to make up our minds about this and see what we are voting for or not voting for. In the meantime, I say that if I compare the amendments we were dealing with yesterday with those we are dealing with today, such as the one from a shift to family allowances, I will get a warm feeling of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u387	It is not just that many amendments have been tabled. This is a crucial question for one of the two coalition parties. I would like to announce that I am also asking this question to the VVD Group, if anyone else is not here to introduce me to the interrupting microphone. That's okay, too. I think it is logical that we should get a little more reaction in this Chamber from one of the two coalition parties or from both of them to the question that is now crucial: is what is the solution or is it not?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u388	That is what we are going to vote on tomorrow morning. Perhaps there will be some minor changes in the meantime. We always see that in politics. There are still discussions to be held in the group. We must have such a mix of amendments and motions that I have said from the very beginning that we, as a party, can feel enough comfort that the overall package, which can not only save the burden relief but also the extra jobs, can pass two chambers with reasonable certainty.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u389	I really think this is a show. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u390	I must say that I share Mr Grashoff's surprise. We talked for 30 hours. Of these, 15 concerned the position of sole earners and a possible job fine. In reply to Mr Grashoff's question to Mr Groot, what the PvdA Group thinks about it, Mr Groot replied: we are going to have a look. I'll ask the question differently. There is an amendment for the cost of jobs. I'm curious how much exactly, but that it costs jobs is clear. Is it, therefore, possible for Mr Groot to discuss the adoption of amendments which clearly bring down the job ambition of 35,000, which is already much less than the original 100,000? Is that conceivable for Mr Groot?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u391	I have already said in the legislative consultation that we can talk to the Labour Party about adjustments, even substantial adjustments, provided they are contained. We would also like to meet the wishes of other parties, so that we can have reasonable assurance that it can pass through two chambers. And yes, indeed, that may cost some jobs in the models, but that is still much better than a scenario where there are no jobs and reliefs at all. I think we should not want to do that to the citizens of this country.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u392	Mr Van Weyenberg, I think you have already asked two questions. No? Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u393	Mr Groot admits it honestly. That was the case before. While Mrs Neppérus basically said no to the countertop subsidy, Mr Groot left more room. He's giving it to me now. Then I have a second question. How many greening measures should the Labour Party really get out of dealing with this Tax Plan? If I count the number of plans, including those of Mr Groot himself, then that is zero so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u394	Mr Van Weyenberg forgets the whole slide from electricity to gas. That is a much-cited cover that has also been described by the Secretary of State, I think rightly, as intelligent. That's a substantial greening. I expect it to be carried out in the final variant. We can also look at loading posts and the like.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u395	Mr Groot is still talking about 'visiting matters'. We've had more than 30 hours of debate. Why does Mr Groot simply not want to be clear about what he chooses? I think that choice was made. In any case, we are not seeing the green and social alternative, but rather Mr Dijkgraaf's plan, which is now on the table. Why doesn't Mr Groot just say: that's the plan we're going to vote for?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u396	Firstly, we know from experience that Mr Bashir will also be aware that plans can change until the last minute. We still have to discuss this in the group. We still have to do the puzzle: what coverage are there, what amendments can we support and how does a total picture come up that we feel can count on sufficient support both in the First Chamber and in the Second Chamber? We still have to make that assessment. Even if I wanted to, I can't right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u397	Now Mr Groot pretends to have something to choose. I do not think that Mr Groot has much to choose from his perspective, at least as far as I am concerned, because at least he has already fired off the SP and D66 proposals. If he shoots it, you don't have an alternative in advance, do you? Then you can't choose anymore, can you?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u398	In my opinion, I didn't shoot anything. We're gonna make some decisions in the morning. Whatever I choose, I choose. I will not let Mr Bashir prescribe that. I have already spoken about the exempted investment firm. Mr Grashoff announced a motion aimed at eliminating the exemptions in Europe for energy consumption by large consumers. I'll be happy to co-sign that motion. In this respect, I did not find the Secretary of State's argument convincing. He says: it was tried in 2011. In the meantime, however, we are four years ahead. He also says: you have to look at it worldwide. I do not find that convincing either. Europe is the largest economic bloc in the world. If action can be taken at one level, it is at European level. And when it comes to reducing greenhouse gas emissions, must there be one economic block that takes the lead in this? It seems to me to be a very good thing if that is Europe. I think I'm through. I would just like to say that tomorrow morning we will come to a final assessment of all the amendments and motions. However, that has just been said in the little debate on the interruption. But, as I see it, that was not enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u399	Mr Van Weyenberg, very briefly, because we really need to move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u400	This is an important debate, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u401	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u402	It's about billions. At the end of this debate, new facts will emerge. Then I think it makes sense that we can also ask questions in the second term. Because we haven't had that chance before.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u403	Well, that's not so bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u404	Mr Groot has said that he is prepared to take on a limited job loss. I assume that the CPB is going to pass on the amendment from the three Christian parties that has just arrived. Where is the border for Mr Groot? How many jobs can it cost?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u405	That depends on the context, on the whole picture. I can't answer that digitally, mathematically. I can't say it's 3,000, or 5,000. That depends on the whole package.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u406	3,000, 5,000, 10,000. Where's the border?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u407	It also depends on what the changes are. I have just said that a number of things that Mr Omtzigt has proposed, such as raising child benefit, are very much to my liking. That's really important. Perhaps even more important than the discussion of the income positions of a earner and a two-earner is the position of children in this country and the question of whether we support them sufficiently. These are also important values for the Labour Party. It also depends on how we come to our opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u408	Just now Mr Groot welcomed a motion which I will shortly be submitting on his behalf. In the debate, however, that thought emerged as a result of a proposal for an amendment I tabled on energy taxation for large consumers. If we look at the process a bit before the summer, we can see that there seemed to be room for the coalition parties to take steps in that direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u409	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u410	I'd like to give it a quiet introduction, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u411	No, you really need to get to the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u412	We got a letter. We have discussed this in detail. The Secretary of State has indicated about the space. We've made use of that. Finally, there is a question of an exemption or restitution system for metallurgical and mineralogic industries. We've still processed it. In fact, I am still too reasonable for a Green Lefter in the proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u413	What is your question, Mr Grashoff?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u414	Is Mr Groot prepared to support that amendment of ours?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u415	You can do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u416	I'm repeating myself. We'll do the puzzle in the morning. Of course, it is important which parties we will work with. But, as the Secretary of State has often said, if you pull one in, you run the risk of losing the other. We still have to make the decision. I can't tell you yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u417	Is it now basically that Mr Groot is going to ask Mr Omtzigt if he can do a particular thing, that Mr Omtzig says that he does not think it is such a good idea and that it does not happen? The Labour Party has said a number of times: there is talk to us about everything. However, there is no way to talk to the Labour Party, because it is not talking back.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u418	The Labour Party ultimately makes its own considerations. That will be evident in tomorrow's votes. That is what Mr Grashoff has to do with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u419	Thank you very much, Mr Groot. I now give the floor to Mr Klein. Funny, the transition from "Mr. Great" to "Mr. Klein"! I heard myself say it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u420	Small is also the new big, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the Secretary of State and his staff for their reaction to the large number of written reactions, including the amendments. A lot of work has been done. In any case, these jobs are guaranteed for a time. Free-minded politics means choosing free and independent people. This applies to two groups in particular. Firstly, that is the group of independent entrepreneurs. We have tabled an amendment to encourage morezzp'ers to innovate. This could make their business even stronger and create additional jobs by employing people. Self-employed entrepreneurs should be able to obtain a VAR easily. We also discussed this VAR story in the legislative consultation. That is still unsatisfactory, which is why I am tabling the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas false self-employment is a problem created by employers who want to attract cheap people;]] [[Whereas "real self-employed workers', for example in the care sector, are now affected by virtually no VAR, which means that they are no longer able to carry out their work;]] [[whereas the VAR is likely to disappear;]] [[calls on the government to give it generously to the self-employed, including in the care sector, as long as the VAR exists,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Klein. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34302-63]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u421	A second group of independent people for whom we should be very much appreciated, including in society, are volunteers. They are the cement of society. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government is aiming at a participatory society;]] [[whereas volunteers make a major contribution to this;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the conditions under which the tax exemption scheme for volunteers can be relaxed,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Klein. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34302-64]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u422	Free-minded politics also stands for defending people who are victims of the system without a free choice. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a tax injustice arises in the event of divorce at the time when the tax ex-partner becomes more profitable;]] [[Whereas it is very unfair for partner A to have to repay supplements if ex-partner B is going to earn more, while this happens in a period in which they no longer live together or have a joint household;]] [[Whereas this may cause problems for people at the minimum level, in particular, without their being able to influence them;]] [[Whereas new victims of the system should be prevented;]] [[calls on the government to come up with proposals for a solution, for example a waiver arrangement, so that people no longer end up in this unjust situation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Klein. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34302-65]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u423	To be more honest with the victims of a system also means a fairer tax system for a earner, in which free 45-plussers who cannot get to work will have opportunities to get back taxes if they are a earner by means of a more equitable tax distribution. We will be looking at proposals on this subject with interest. Finally, I would like to touch on a few individual points that we have also mentioned in the legislative consultation. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a lot of tax money has gone into greening car taxes;]] [[noting that the number of bicycles provided by a company has fallen dramatically since the introduction of the working cost scheme;]] [[Whereas encouraging the use of the bicycle is the greenest solution;]] [[calls on the government to develop a better promotion of company bicycles in the context of a genuine greening of our tax system,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Klein. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34302-66]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u424	Finally, I come to my final motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u425	Then you must be very quick.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u426	Yes, but there is also time in the "heard the debate" et cetera. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that alternative medicine is currently not exempt from VAT;]] [[Considering that on 27 March 2015 the Supreme Court ruled that alternative medicine should have the same VAT exemption regime as regular medicine, provided that they perform qualitatively similar health services as practitioners covered by the BIG Act;]] [[calls on the Government to draw up repair legislation as soon as possible so that the VAT exemption for alternative medicine is legally anchored,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Klein. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34302-67]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u427	I have another point of order, Mr President. A while ago, I tabled a motion for a resolution in the case of the AOW with the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment. That motion has been held. It concerns the Klein motion in part No. 15 (34083). This motion concerns the increase in the tax exemption for the voluntary allowance for people in the AOW-hole. I would like the Secretary of State's opinion on that. I would ask that this motion be put to the vote tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u428	That's what we're gonna do. Do you have a copy for me? That'll make it a little easier. Then we'll be able to get to work faster.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u429	Mr. Chairman. At the beginning of my first term, I took up the question of what a tax plan, which we are talking about here and now, should actually do. It is about creating more work, creating more greening and reducing inequality. Now that we are about at the end of the procedure, I would like to take stock of the situation. I'd like to assess whether it's gotten better or not. But of course that is a bit difficult when there is so little clarity on the part of the coalition and there is also an amendment in writing, the precise implication of which is not yet clear. Moreover, I have not yet been able to hear what the Secretary of State actually thinks of the crucial amendment of the CDA, the Christian Union and the SGP. So I'm in an extremely strange situation. When I see the Secretary of State's non-verbal communication, I think he's a little sympathetic to me. But I'm gonna try anyway. When you look at it like that through your eye hair, it doesn't look like we've made a lot of progress. At least more work didn't come out during this treatment, unless another miracle happens. If I add up all the negative opinions of the Secretary of State, hear the opinions of the other political groups and also note that a positive response on the part of the coalition has not been forthcoming so far, at least little has happened in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u430	Mr Grashoff is somewhat attacking the fact that, as a result of these possible adjustments, there may be fewer jobs. Mr Grashoff is also doing so on the basis of the CPB transfer which he has seen. I have just read a book by the group chairman of Mr Grashoff, Mr Klaver. In that book Mr Klaver just attacked this thinking. He said that in this Chamber it is very often about the outcome of credit transfers by the CPB, but that the debate should be about values. What kind of society do we want? Why is Mr Grashoff not talking about this and is he talking about a pass-through and about the effect of a plus or a minus on the number of jobs, which I might refer to as economics?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u431	Then I'm gonna ask another question. Can Mrs Schouten point out when I mentioned the word CPB in the first term, in the legislative submission or in my second term? Can she name the number?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u432	There have just been a number of interruptions, I believe, to Mr Groot. It said that the number of jobs would be reduced. We didn't think of that number of jobs. I never mentioned the number of jobs either. I believe that Mr Grashoff has noted this on the basis of a report which has just come from the CPB. I don't think the other Members have mentioned how many jobs that would matter. Because I can't calculate that at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u433	I will give the answer to Mrs Schouten. The answer is "zero." I've used the word "CPB" zero times. That's not so weird. Does this mean that we should not then be talking about employment? I don't think that's what Mrs Schouten meant.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u434	Then Mr Grashoff himself would have calculated exactly how many jobs this would care, because no one but the CPB has calculated how many jobs there would be more or less on the basis of the new proposals. Obviously, Mr Grashoff can also be convinced that this would not be the case with the plans. That's a win again. Furthermore, this is not a decisive factor for him.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u435	It's a factor. I have made the link with employment in all my contributions and in all the proposals I have made. I did this in a way that separates me from the question of whether there is a CPB study that identifies according to a particular model A or B. I've been wondering what you can reason with your common sense; what does it do and what does it not do? I have referred, among other things, to the effects of investment and its detachment. I think Mrs Schouten does not want to confuse my story with the story of others in this Chamber, but perhaps she has confused them. 'Cause other people are really into CPB models, but I'm not.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u436	I have just heard a question from Mr Groot about the effect on the number of jobs. Once again, I am very pleased that Mr Grashoff can calculate all this himself. I don't think anyone in this room did, but the CPB did. Let us not refer to the word 'CPB', but to 'the institution that has a model somewhere in the distance that calculates jobs'.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u437	This is starting to go a really weird way. It would also mean, once again with some kind of reference to economics, that you can no longer talk about employment. After all, you should express it in a number, which could be investigated, and that would be economics? But it's not that crazy. I find the interruption really below Mrs Schouten's level.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u438	No, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u439	I have tried twice in a legislative consultation and in my two deadlines to have a serious discussion on greening and employment without falling into model stuff. I don't want to be blamed for this. I think that is wrong, and if there are people who are allowed to care, then Mrs Schouten has to interfere with the people who are concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u440	Yes, and also on content, not on the person, Mr Grashoff. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u441	At the end of this period, we really don't have much else. With everything that's happened, you can expect no significant work to be added. That may not have been significant either, but at least it hasn't gotten any better. In the field of greening there are two small profit points. I welcome that, but I have to say that they are small profit points. That will not be enough for my group. I still hope that I will be able to obtain wider support in this Chamber for thinking about the energy tax on large consumers, with all the nuances surrounding it, for example from Mr Groot or Mrs Schouten. Perhaps this will allow us to take another step in a direction which could still pass some of the test of criticism. Anyway, so far, 'cause I'm not gonna make it any longer than I have to. Mr Groot has quite rightly already said something about the motion I have tabled. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the EU Energy Taxation Directive provides for a tax exemption for the metallurgical and mineralogic industries;]] [[Whereas this exemption option leads to undesirable tax competition between EU Member States;]] [[calls on the Government to make efforts at EU level to abolish this exemption and to make full use of the period of the Dutch Presidency,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grashoff and Mr Groot. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34302-68]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u442	The motion that I have now tabled is a little premature, but sometimes a motion shows some kind of logical consistency with an amendment. This motion is linked to the amendment on energy taxation for large consumers. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, by Amendment No 34302, No. 40 an additional EUR 100 million will be made available for the Energy Investment Deduction (EIA);]] [[Whereas it allows the maximum rate of deduction to be increased to 65;]] [[calls on the Government to adapt the EIA scheme in such a way as to increase the deduction rate from 41.5 to 65,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grashoff. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34302-69]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u443	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his answers, but I do not, because he has not given different answers. He does that to me all the time. I don't know exactly why. Most importantly, I asked how far his rack is when his own tax plan is watered down. I didn't hear him say anything about that. In addition, I asked a question which I also submitted to Mr Omtzigt later, but I shall leave it to him to do what he is. It was a funny debate. The PVV says the government is implementing PvdA policy and the SP says the government is implementing VVD policy. Does the Secretary of State remember himself? I find that an interesting issue. Mr Van Weyenberg has in his part No. 21 (34302) tabled an amendment on the spread of the grant tax exemption in the home. I would advise against this amendment to the Chamber and to the Secretary of State. Why do I do that? Because the cover isn't right. We have all discussed an own-initiative paper from Mr Omtzigt. What was the most important conclusion? For excise revenue, behavioural effects are not taken into account. So that's not what this cover does either. This coverage will not prove sufficient. I am very surprised that the Secretary of State leaves the opinion on the amendment to the Chamber, because here is another ordinary tax increase that I am not really waiting for. I would like to put two outstanding points in a motion. The first concerns the range of interest relief restrictions in corporate tax. I've talked about that before. The written reply of the Secretary of State was not satisfactory. The text of the motion will show why not. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas in the course of the years, the interest relief restrictions in corporation tax (Vpb) have produced a wide range of legal arrangements;]] [[Whereas these schemes are not all equally effective and their multiples do not benefit the broadest possible tax simplification;]] [[Whereas Article 10b Vpb 1969 Act, which aims to ensure that interest not paid can also not be deducted in certain cases, is not used in practice and according to the State Secretary there is only for the "preventive effect";]] [[Whereas only a supposed preventive effect does not provide sufficient ground to complete a code of conduct with instruments that are not applied;]] [[calls on the government to take a first step towards streamlining the many interest relief restrictions in the Vpb by deleting Article 10b from the Vpb 1969 Act,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Vliet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34302-70]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u444	Then I have another motion on monuments that are not located in the Netherlands, and the deduction on them. The answer given by the Secretary of State on this point was also very unsatisfactory. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the arrangements for the deduction of maintenance costs for monuments are extended to include monuments situated in other EU Member States or EEA Member States;]] [[whereas the Netherlands has concluded bilateral tax treaties with all these States in accordance with the so-called OECD Model Convention;]] [[Whereas those conventions provide that the taxation of immovable property is to be allocated to the State in which the immovable property is situated;]] [[Whereas the abovementioned extension of deduction of the Dutch income from the cost of immovable property situated in other States does not comply with these tax conventions;]] [[Whereas, moreover, deduction of the costs of a property located abroad cannot be established in a verifiable and objective manner;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how the scope of the judgment of the Court of Justice relating to the above-mentioned rules can be limited in order not to extend the above-mentioned rules to immovable property situated abroad,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Vliet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34302-71]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u445	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State and all his staff for all the answers we have received this evening and which have been received earlier on paper. It's always a lot of work on the Tax Plan. The VVD Group is concerned with reducing the burden by 5 billion. This is really essential after years of unfortunately annoying measures and occasionally an increase in charges. The jobs in the Tax Plan are also essential for us. Those essential points are in the plan and we simply want to see it in all the pieces in the future. This is always essential for us: reduction of burdens and jobs, jobs, jobs. The second point I would like to draw attention to is the Parent-Subsidiary Directive. I have already said that we wholeheartedly support it. It's important that it happens. At the same time, it is also important to know what happens in other countries. I am also concerned about the international business environment. We are right to take these measures, but at the same time I remain concerned about the locational climate. Mr President, I see someone is trying to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u446	Finish your sentence first.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u447	It ends with a motion. That's why I practically choose to do one thing before I do the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u448	Thanks for thinking along.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u449	I have only received a number of main points. I do not know more than Mr Grashoff, and I therefore hope that the Secretary of State will address the question of the effects of this amendment. What's the effect on the jobs? I didn't say two minutes ago that it's essential for the VVD that those 35,000 jobs actually get there. That is something I want to see again, because that is essential for us. That has to be indicated and then we put all these effects together. We will have time for this tomorrow morning and we will certainly do so. It is important enough to look at it carefully and not to call for one or the other immediately. I want to know what the effects are first.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u450	Surely Mrs. Neppérus has a feeling about this? She knows whether she likes it or not, doesn't she? Surely there's no other way to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u451	I am not Mr Grashoff, and I speak only for myself. It's definitely elements you should want to look at. The child benefit or the child budget was also mentioned last week by the Secretary of State. Those are the best points worth looking at. There are also elements that you might think about: gut, I need to think about that. So the jobs are essential to me. The VVD will therefore consider whether this tax relief will provide the jobs we want. For that, I need more information.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u452	I am glad that Mrs Neppérus also wants a CPB on the job effects. I ask her the same question as I asked Mr Groot: what is acceptable to her? Earlier, she said very clearly that she did not have any warm feelings about the possible return of the countertop subsidy. "We fought long enough" is a quote by Mrs Neppérus. How many jobs can Mrs Neppérus lose because of this amendment? 3,000, 5,000 or 10,000?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u453	I'm not going to mention concrete numbers. It must be close to the 35,000, because that's what the coalition's going for. I just want to know what the effects are. This is essential for the VVD Group. Then we assess the amendment. Mr Van Weyenberg, of course, refers to the elements of which you say... Fortunately, I do not read 'income-dependent combination discount', because I also mentioned them yesterday. It's about the other element now. I have to sigh and that means I have to take a good look at it first. I have to look at the effects, because at the VVD, the desire for the Tax Plan to be adopted with sufficient relief and all these jobs prevails, because then the Netherlands will really improve. We are concerned with the adoption of a tax plan in the First and Second Chambers, which is sufficiently recognizable for us.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u454	The answer must also be brief.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u455	I understand Mrs Neppérus in such a way that the job fine is no longer on the table. Despite the job losses, therefore, it must be very close to the 35,000, Mrs Neppérus would like to consider it. Did I understand her that well?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u456	That is what I said, and that is why I await further information.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u457	Mrs Neppérus said at the same time in this Chamber last night that she was shivering when she thought of Mr Dijkgraaf's proposal. Is that still the case?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u458	The proposal at the time contained a change in the limitation of the transfer discount. That's still there. It also included a reduction in the income-dependent combination discount. That combination gives me the creeps; I did say that. It's still something I have to sigh deeply at. However, I have also said that I will assess all the amendments tabled, because for us it is also essential that this Tax Plan achieves the mark, provided that it provides enough jobs and that it is sufficiently recognizable for the VVD Group. I shall look into that further. Tomorrow morning, our group will draw its conclusions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u459	So, let me get this straight, are the chills over?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u460	I understand that Mr Bashir is concerned that I have chills. It does not make me happy, but that is sometimes the reality of politics. Then I have to say: although I do not like a part at all, I think it is very important for this country to have the Tax Plan. Preferably, that's with as little chills as possible. Thank you for Mr Bashir's concern about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u461	I remember the billboards: working Netherlands deserves tax cuts. Now this amendment focuses on a tax increase in the second and third discs. I can't imagine the VVD agreeing to a tax increase on labour. Everything was aimed at lowering it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u462	I'd like to lower those charges, but, as I say, that rate is always lower than the current rate, I thought. We're gonna have to check it out. The Secretary of State can answer that. Again, the VVD Group is concerned: are there enough jobs and can I find sufficient relief in them? It is essential for us, and I agree with Mr Van Dijck. That's why we're gonna take a quiet look at it tomorrow morning. I want to, and so should we.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u463	Yesterday, Mrs Neppérus had the chills of the IACK if it were to be reduced by 300 million. I can imagine that these chills are ten times worse when it comes to increasing the load in the second and third discs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u464	That one shiver, the income-dependent combination discount, isn't in it. We are not happy with the increase in charges, at least less than we would like. But again, I will look at the piece, because we take responsibility for this country. We hope that this Tax Plan, with a reduction in charges and more jobs, will indeed be implemented. Mr. Chairman. I shall now turn to the issue of the locational climate. We think that is very important. Measures are being taken, which we support, to ensure that there is more cooperation and more exchange of information between countries. That's what happens with the Common Reporting Standard. I also refer to the Parent-Subsidiary Directive. We are also right to fix a leak in the immigration regime. However, something must also be done to ensure that the Netherlands remains attractive to companies that really want to do something here. There are. The establishment of such companies here is essential for employment. Which brings me to the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that national measures are in place to combat tax avoidance, such as the expiry of the conservative attack on directors-major shareholders, the revision of the Mother Daughter Directive and the implementation of the OECD Action Plan (BEPS) against tax avoidance;]] [[Whereas these measures provide for a long-term structural budgetary return;]] [[noting that a good tax location environment contributes to business, a level playing field for businesses and the maintenance of jobs in the Netherlands;]] [[calls on the government to develop a plan to keep the Dutch tax settlement environment in a responsible way permanently attractive, and to present it before September 2016,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Neppérus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34302-73]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u465	Do I understand correctly that Mrs Neppérus, in terms of the tax environment, means an environment that invites international companies to invest in the real economy and not in the financial economy? We are not going to create new tax facilities again for all kinds of companies with very little substance in the Netherlands? Surely it is about companies that really invest and actually create jobs? By that I mean investments and jobs outside the financial industry.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u466	I really want to see jobs and activities. That's what we're talking about. They are essential to our country.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u467	Everyone knows that in this Chamber I have always been a champion of the tax climate. I therefore support the motion that Mrs Neppérus has just read. I am sorry that she did not knock on my door, because I am a defender of the tax climate and would have liked to have signed the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u468	I'm prepared to alter this motion, if necessary, so that you can sign in. And others, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u469	Okay. Thank you, Mrs Neppérus. Oh, weren't you finished?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u470	I didn't realize Mrs. Neppérus was ready, Mr. Chairman. I have one question for her. I understand that if the amendment of the three Christian parties is adopted, the reduction in the burden of the cabinet will not be 5 billion more, but only 4.8 billion. It goes to family allowances, so the costs are reduced by 200 million. I have actually understood that correctly, I ask the keeper of the relief.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u471	What exactly the consequences are, I'd like to hear from the cabinet. Then I'll respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u472	I am not concerned about the economic impact on jobs. We've already talked about that. But that amendment increases child benefit by 200 million. That's an issue that's paid for by the rates in the disk lengths. This results, on balance, if the amendment is adopted, in a cabinet tax package in which the burden does not go down by 5 billion more, but by 4.8 billion less, i.e. 200 million less. My question to Mrs Neppérus is whether she can confirm this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u473	I wish to hear exactly that from the cabinet. That calculation might be correct, but there will be other elements in it. I have also seen a lot of other amendments with a coal tax and all kinds of other things. There are consequences for citizens too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u474	I assume Mrs Neppérus can confirm that there is 5 billion additional purchasing power for the Dutch. If she wishes to transfer the sum of the Christian Democrat and Christian three to the cabinet, she could also ask the cabinet what the situation would be if Mr Van Weyenberg's last amendment were adopted. This includes an additional €350 million for the childcare allowance. If, therefore, Mr Van Weyenberg is going to calculate the reduction in charges, he will, with his amendment, be lower, according to his own calculation, than with the amendment of the 'new C3' so to speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u475	Here's to it. I hope that the Secretary of State has heard the question and takes the answer to it into account in his reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u476	Mr. Chairman. And so a new C3 was born on the eleventh of the eleventh. We have been talking about this Tax Plan for 30 hours, as Mr Bashir said. And yet there is no certain majority. What does that say about the support of this cabinet? The cabinet has lost all its credibility and has been ruled out as far as the PVV is concerned. The opposition parties are now standing in line to drag something small out before the finish line. The Christian parties want a crumb for the breadwinners, while through their efforts, through their support for the PvdA's leveling party, this distortion arose. GroenLinks clings with man and power to the milk cow of the energy tax. It wants to milk GroenLinks even further, while energy is already priceless for many citizens and families. The SP, who else expected it, wants to level further, until everyone leaves the same at the end of the month. This is good for employment. Furthermore, excise duties are once again the milk cow. Excise duties on beer, mineral waters and tobacco are increased. It's the famous milk cow again, like every year. And complain about border effects. After 30 hours of debate, the opposition has achieved nothing. Nothing for the elderly, nothing for the chronically ill, nothing for the greening and nothing "fair sharing" for the SP. Maybe there'll be a piece of cake for the breadwinners later. And as puppets, they've adjusted the cover. It is not the IACK, which would narrow the gap between one earner and two earners, but the tax on labour is increasing. That's what we're getting back to, because that's what it was all about. I thought we were supposed to lower taxes on labour. The opposition has prayed the blisters on the tongue to bring in a crumb. I have to conclude that this did not work. However, this Tax Plan will soon be voted in favour.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u477	The PVV shows everyone from left to right, but let's take a look at specific cases. We can therefore immediately see where the different choices are made. The cabinet chooses to advance older people €50 a year, while people earning five times the statutory minimum wage (WML) are improving over €1,000. We have put forward a proposal to do something about this, so that people with five times WML are less advanced and people who are retired, for example, can make a little more progress. On this, the PVV says that the SP wants to level everything. Do I understand correctly that this is the choice of the PVV?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u478	The PVV does indeed want tax cuts for everyone, for the rich and also for the poor. Of course, that is percentage and, of course, that is more for the rich than for the poor in absolute euros. We do not want to level any further, because the whole country is being levelled. Everything is already dependent on income, except Mark Rutte's raisins.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u479	That's what I hear in every debate. I hear the PVV here every debate of every kind, but I never see any concrete proposals. I see proposals from the cabinet, which want the elderly to advance €50, while people who make a lot of money are improving €1,000. The SP wants to do something about this. The SP wants to equalize this more. The PVV criticizes this, but I do not see any proposals from the PVV. Why does the PVV not submit any motions or amendments? Why doesn't the PVV come up with anything? The PVV has zero point zero effect in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u480	As I said in the case of interruption, if we were to table amendments, we would have thousands of amendments, and that is the electoral programme. This cabinet is 180 degrees on the wrong course, as far as we're concerned. Mr Bashir is satisfied with it, by showing himself with an amendment to reduce the limits in the third disc a little bit. That amendment is not gonna make it anyway, he can forget it. I wouldn't be surprised if he voted in favour of this Tax Plan after all. I do not want to hear Mr Bashir and the SP talk about the breakdown of care for the elderly, because that is what keeps the SP alive by letting this cabinet sit.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u481	Gentlemen, a personal fact may be, but no further discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u482	Whether we vote in favour or against, we will ultimately decide. I did not say that we are going to vote in favour or against. The amendments are still there. My question has still not been answered. The PVV has still tabled zero amendments and zero motions. Come up with a proposal!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u483	We come to the elections with a very nice proposal. I understand you're disappointed because the SP hasn't been called to talk. As far as the cabinet is concerned, the SP doesn't matter, and you want this so badly. It's disappointing, I know.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u484	The PVV complains that we have met for 30 hours, dealt with a lot of pieces and zero proposals. The PVV Group considers it more important to spend the time writing in-depth blackmail laws than to make a counter-proposal on this Tax Plan. This bill has not yet been completed, as it has been under work for two years.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u485	I spent 30 hours trying to convince you not to vote in favour of this Tax Plan. I've been talking the blisters on my tongue for 30 hours to convince you that if this cabinet is tolerated, it's still here for a year and a half. You should not complain about all the laws passed by this cabinet, with or without the support of the opposition, and against which you are now opposing. You had the chance to send the cabinet home now, and you didn't. You'll settle for a piece of cake for the breadwinners again. That's your choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u486	I conclude for a moment that the PVV has now done nothing but say that it wants to send the cabinet home for 30 hours. The PVV has not devised or written down any proposal, nor has the PVV explained how it would like to set up the tax in the Netherlands. I conclude that the PVV will vote against the Tax Plan in the near future and thus vote in favour of remaining at the level of 2015 of taxes in 2016, which will thus be 5 billion higher than some parties in this Chamber propose. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u487	Indeed, if Mr Omtzigt were to vote against this Tax Plan and not let himself be thrown out with a few crumbs, we would have elections and real tax cuts on 1 January. There is much more to be done than is currently the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u488	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u489	Mr. Chairman. So Mr Omtzigt and the others should not complain about the breakdown of care for the elderly, about the breakdown of the pension system, about study funding, about the high rents, the costs of care or the asylum system that we are dealing with now, because all these parties who are going to vote for this Tax Plan will make this possible. This was the opportunity to send the cabinet home and opt for real tax cuts, but no, this parliament supports the cabinet through thick and thin and thus supports the destruction of the Netherlands. As far as PVV is concerned, that's a missed opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u490	Mr. Chairman. It is better to stimulate people in the productive phase of their lives. I repeat: it is better to stimulate people in the productive phase of their lives. That's what the Secretary of State said earlier today. What does the Secretary of State imply? Don't you think older people are in their productive phase anymore? Don't they contribute to society anymore? According to 50PLUS, the elderly are very productive. If they stopped their care or voluntary service for a week, the whole country would come to a standstill. After more than three days of debate with the Secretary of State, 50PLUS sees a lot of attention in this Chamber to the position of sole earners and families, for greening and for employment-enhancing measures. The purchasing power of older people is also given greater attention at the end of the day. The Christian parties are now coming up with a proposal that 50PLUS wants to study first. At the moment, we are still unclear as to how things are going to work out. We are therefore awaiting the reaction of the Secretary of State and the passing-over effects. For 50PLUS, one thing is and will remain important: let us distribute the burden relief as fairly as possible to people who work, people who cannot work and people who have worked. That is what we shall be assessing the amendments. The two amendments we have tabled speak for themselves. They lead to greater burden relief and better purchasing power development for pensioners, with only minimal impact on the development of new jobs and workers' incomes. In short, they ensure a better distribution of the sweet. We are particularly interested in the opinion of the CDA, the Christian Union and the SGP on our amendments. They seem to be in line with the proposals made by these parties themselves. However, the difference is that 50PLUS directly opts for a structural solution. Another important point is that the increase in the income-dependent social security contribution for pensioners should be cancelled as far as 50PLUS is concerned. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the income-dependent Health Insurance Act premium (Zvw premium) for pensioners will be increased in 2016 and reduced for employees and employers;]] [[Whereas the proposed premium increase, for example, for a pair of AOW and a supplementary pension of €10,000 has a negative purchasing power effect of 0,3%;]] [[Whereas the development of the purchasing power of pensioners should be brought more into line with the development of the purchasing power of workers;]] [[calls on the Government to reverse the increase in the income-dependent social security contribution for pensioners and to cover this budget neutrally,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34302-74]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u491	I am curious to see what the 50PLUS Group, which is proposing a move of around EUR 275 million, means by 'budgetary neutral coverage'. Where did the 275 million come from?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u492	There is finally sweet that can be divided now. In our view, it would be very reasonable for that to be more fairly distributed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u493	Can the 50PLUS Group give an idea where it should come from: higher taxes, lower expenditure, less tax cuts?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u494	Indeed, workers would be slightly less advanced, but we think that is perfectly reasonable, given the decline experienced by older people in recent years.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u495	I understand that point of view. When you table an amendment to the tax plan, you say exactly: I want to spend 275 million extra, and I will cover it. Is the 50PLUS Group prepared to table such a proposal? We set the percentages here, but with a motion you don't change the law. Even if the motion is adopted, the percentages remain in the law. I ask the 50PLUS Group to table an amendment before the votes and to show what it is covered by. Then anyone can see if they agree to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u496	In the explanatory statement of the amendments, it is clearly indicated. 50PLUS considers that no age limit should be applied in the extended grant exemption and therefore submits the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the proposed extended grant exemption is limited to beneficiaries of 18 to 40 years of age;]] [[Whereas persons over 40 years of age may also have to deal with similar serious debt problems related to their own home;]] [[calls on the government not to apply an age upper limit to the extended grant exemption,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34302-75]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u497	It's a sympathetic motion. I agree with the objective in principle. That is also what I spoke about in the interrupting debate with Mr Van Weyenberg. In fact, this also applies to what Mr Omtzigt just said. There's a proposal now. Is it not wiser that the 50PLUS Group should table an amendment and indicate how it intends to cover it? We can do that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u498	That can be done in an amendment, but you can also ask in a motion for a resolution if there is anything else to be done about the distribution. And yes, workers will still be making terrible progress, but then pensioners, for which you have also fought in the past, will also be able to make some progress.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u499	We're all fighting for charity, and we're going for it. However, as Mr Van Weyenberg pointed out in an interruption, it will cost a great deal if you delete the age limit that is justified in itself. I'd like to know how you're gonna cover that. You must put that in an amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u500	There is now finally some sweet to divide. The elderly have communicated enough in the acid in recent years. As far as I am concerned, they can now finally tell us in the sweet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u501	Madam President. I would like to express my thanks to the Secretary of State for this titanic struggle, which is the treatment of the Tax Plan every year and certainly this year. I would like to extend that thank you to the officials. The Secretary of State has worked hard, but the officials have certainly done the same. There are a few of them here, but many of them are working on this, especially those in the amendment service. I apologize for the many versions that have passed in recent times. This applies to several amendments, but I have certainly been guilty of them. But, yeah, that's what it's supposed to be in such a process. I think it is a good example of a process in which the Chamber is really involved and in which it is taking place during the debate. We have had quite a lot of debates where the agreement had actually been concluded and the debate was formalization and interpretation of the agreement. This is where it happened during the debate. That's the way it should be. Then the contents. The single earner comes in the center of attention. That is very deserved, because the gap between one earner and two earners really got too big. I am therefore also pleased that the CDA, the Christian Union and the SGP are working together on this dossier. That is a good thing. There is a beautiful package that is essential for us. One earners improve, the two earner gap is reduced by €520, the child benefit increases by €60 per child and the chronically ill get a greater allowance in their high costs. I think that all of this is a very nice package. I regard this as an outstretched hand from the parties to the cabinet and the coalition. I'd say grab that one. There will be 200 million for the single earner, a transferable tax discount and €520 extra from 2016. These things are, in my view, a step in the right direction. I can make my fellow Members happy, because this amendment, the amended amendment in part No. 72, is now in their mailbox and has just been distributed. It also adds 200 million for child benefit: €48 extra for children up to 6 years, €58 extra for children between 6 years and 12 years and €68 for children between 12 years and 18 years. The amendment on this matter has just been received. It has no. 11. For people with a disabled child, an allowance has been made in the form of €540 extra. Those people really need that money. In addition, 100 million will be released to pay compensation to chronically ill people. It is important that funding no longer comes from the income-dependent combination discount. I understand that this is a real problem for the coalition and the cabinet. I would have rather let him in, because the funding would narrow that gap by another €300, but well, one has to look where the pain is and where the stinger is. Funding from the IACK was one of those stingers. I think one should be constructive and take it out, if necessary, hence the outstretched hand. As far as I am concerned, the same applies to stacking. I sometimes hear sounds in the corridors that this is a very expensive package. I would say that it is not expensive if you could get 10% of the 5 billion from 17 seats across the street, that is 45% of the seats that then have to make a majority. I think that's a bargain. Nevertheless, we have wondered how we could make as small a package as possible. In my view, this is a package as small as possible. There was a much larger package.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u502	Have you finished your speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u503	I have one more thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u504	You'd better finish that first.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u505	The CPB is an excellent institution. I'm glad there is. It makes its own choices. It's okay. However, several requests have been made for an amendment to be passed on. I very much agree with that, but I urge the Cabinet to ask the CPB to pass on amendments based on the literal form and text and to tell the CPB that it would like to receive a report if it does so or a letter if it does not. The CPB may choose to convert an amendment into something else, but in the political debate in the Chamber I attach zero and no value to the number of jobs that comes out of it. That is not an assessment of an amendment, of a literal legal text that is here. I appreciate the CPB. I'm not gonna take anything off of that. The model is correct, but one thing is for sure: if you introduce the amendment as it has been formulated, so a legislative text that we in the House of Representatives and the First Chamber simply lay down by a majority, into the model, then the number of jobs that costs that is zero.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u506	One question, Mr Van Weyenberg. We really need to wrap up a little bit now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u507	This is at the heart of the debate, Mr President. I hope that Mr Dijkgraaf agrees with me that it is very important that we have consistency. I hope that Mr Dijkgraaf does not call for it not to be done in the same way, because he is shocked by the outcome of today's transfers. I believe that sums are made in the same way. Mr Dijkgraaf may, of course, draw different conclusions from that. That's his right. I'm not gonna take it away from him. I heard him right. However, I would not like to give the impression in any way that we now want to have sums made in a different way from those normally done by the CPB. What value does Mr Dijkgraaf attach to these sums is, of course, entirely up to himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u508	It's crystal clear. Consistency is always important. If we are working on an election programme with the CPB and we are submitting a measure which the CPB says does not fall within the framework, he will not use his own interpretation of that variant in a model. Then the CPB says: I'm sorry, but we don't see these measures through or you have to agree to another way of formulating that measure in your election programme and then we'll pass it on to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u509	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the Secretary of State for replying. We saw today and yesterday that the 2016 Tax Plan does not opt for robust tax cuts and real tax reform. After the cabinet first increased the burden by 15 billion, we now get 5 billion back. A cigar from your own box, because the taxes don't go down much. Is something finally being done to reduce the cumbersome surcharge system? No, on the contrary. The care allowance and the childcare allowance even strengthen the situation. And the VVD saw it was good. Is anything going to be done to reduce marginal pressure? I'm afraid not. Certainly at the bottom one stays trapped in one's own income group. And there the Labour Party saw that it was good. Fortunately, there is a classic-liberal alternative: introduce a flat tax of 23%, more uniform VAT rates at 15%, reduce excise duties and corporate tax by 10%, thereby increasing economic freedom. Our plans have been properly calculated by the Central Planning Bureau. It's possible, even budget-neutral. Our plans are good for the people, good for the economy and therefore good for the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u510	Mr. Chairman. We are almost at the end of a very long marathon in which we exchanged a lot of thoughts on the Tax Plan and also on the other laws that are before us today; let us not forget them either. In the end, the discussion focused on a number of themes, which have been discussed for a long time. There has also been talk of principles, views, which we all have here in this Chamber. As far as the Christian Union is concerned, it is perhaps to bring it down to one word: justice. We wanted a tax system that is fair, in the sense that not only those who have the opportunities, the opportunities, the opportunities,................................................................................................................................................................................................. We have been working for this in recent weeks, perhaps even in recent months, because this has been going on for a long time. I note now that there are a number of amendments before us, including those tabled by my group, which will enable us to take that step towards that fairer system. First of all, I would like to mention the amendment on the gap between the single earners and the two earners. Mr Dijkgraaf has just explained exactly how and why. As far as we are concerned, that is an important amendment. It ensures that even those who do not have the opportunity to take a paid job get some of this great relief. The second point concerns the amendment on the chronically ill and disabled. There seems to be some sort of Murphy law around this amendment, because every time I think "now the Secretary of State is going to make a judgment," he doesn't have it in his hands. There are two parts: 100 million for an additional tax deduction for people who have specific care costs due to chronic illness or disability and about 4 million for parents with a home-dwelling disabled child. These are people who have not chosen for that situation, but who are entitled to participate in the 5 billion package. The third point is greening. As far as we are concerned, there should have been more ambition in the Tax Plan itself. That did not happen, euphemistically, optimally, but many good proposals have been put forward here about greening. We ourselves have proposed, as cover for the amendment for the chronically ill and disabled, that we look at the slide of gas and electricity. The Secretary of State calls it an intelligent slide, an intelligent solution. We delivered them, too. They are two birds with one stone: it contributes to further greening and it immediately provides cover for an amendment. Furthermore, we have the postcode rose. That's a detail, but we've been working on it for years. Finally, a judgment room. That's good. But other greening amendments have also been tabled. Mr Grashoff has tabled a number of amendments. We will certainly be able to support some of them, such as the coal tax. We have also asked what will happen to all these coal plants. I just can't get a clear answer. We are therefore making a statement of principle on this matter. As far as we are concerned, the coal tax will not have to be removed, because the gap between grey and green will then become even greater, where it needs to be reduced. We have tabled other amendments, which the Secretary of State has not always responded very enthusiastically to. I mention the point of LIV, the wage cost advantage for people at the bottom, and the injury. We have given all our arguments why we do think it is necessary to table these amendments, and I hope they will be adopted. I don't have much more to add to that. In the end, our decision will depend on whether, on the three points that I have mentioned and which we have already mentioned a year ago, greening, earners, chronically ill and disabled people are taking steps tomorrow when there are votes. On this basis, our group will consider how it will vote on this Tax Plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u511	As it now appears, it is about greening, the zip code rose and the slide of gas and electricity. Is that enough for the Christian Union Group to agree to the Tax Plan? Mrs Schouten has always mentioned these three strikes. So it can now, as it were, take stock of the situation. If this is it and it isn't anymore, is that enough for the Christian Union or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u512	We would like to see a more ambitious plan than Mr Grashoff's points. I just turned that in. But let me put it this way: that is the lower limit for us to at least be able to go along with the Tax Plan. As I have said, I will support some of Mr Grashoff's proposals, because I think we have much more options. Only, it depends on whether the majority of this Chamber agrees. I'm not quite in control of that. I can only say a warm word about it: look at it, do something with it. That is a voting opinion for Mr Grashoff's amendments. But the amendments that we have tabled must certainly reach the finish line.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u513	Finally, Mr Grashoff, there is no need.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u514	I therefore understand that, as far as the Christian Union Group is concerned, it is no longer conditional on support for the Tax Plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u515	On parole, on parole. I have just indicated that our own amendments should be adopted in the context of the overall weighing-up of the Tax Plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u516	This brings us to the end of the second term of office. I shall suspend the sitting until 11.15 p.m. Oh, no, Mr Krol has something else to say. A point of order?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u517	I would like to add one supplementary to a question that Mr Omtzigt has just asked me, because that is clear. We have asked the government's tax support department whether we should table a motion or an amendment. They said: in this case a motion because it is about lower regulation. I have therefore clarified that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u518	Mr President. Dear spokesmen. I'm trying to reduce the burden on labour and more work. I'm just gonna keep doing that. Unfortunately, this is about more than just ideas, proposals and motions. I love ideas, proposals and motions, but we don't just get there with lists of ideas. It is also about ideas that can count on support. That's the problem. There's the crux in there. I am also sensitive to the position of specific groups, which I have said earlier that it might shed. I will not be cutting sharp along model outcomes, but employment remains an objective. I have the feeling, the impression that we have slowly rediscovered the art in which we were once good here, namely the art to approach each other, to join hands by giving and taking files together and to recognize the importance of the tax reduction. Until the vote, there is time to ensure further reduction of the burden. The first handles are there. I don't know if we're here yet. I hope that groups will be prepared to think together and I will give some hints on how to increase support. I invite all initiators and suppliers of handles to do so. I'll start with the motions. Then I come to the amendments, where I go from uncovered to covered. In the motion in part No. Mr Omtzigt, Mrs Schouten and Mr Dijkgraaf asked for transitional arrangements. It doesn't say what year, but I assume it's about 2016. This motion has led to total despair in the Tax Department. An extensive campaign has been launched to inform these people. They all got letters. This is a process that is virtually impossible to correct. If you are going to work with transitional arrangements and exceptions here, it will be a manual process, in which the people who have stopped the surcharge are difficult to trace and not necessarily get something that they are still entitled to after a transitional arrangement, and in which the people who have not done anything about their allowances and have not yet stopped doing so will get it. I have a great deal of difficulty with motions that call so strongly for something so badly enforceable. It's gonna be a mess. I'm not saying it's impossible. I say that a complex manual process must then be started and that we will read in all the newspapers that this did not quite work out. For that reason, I must advise against this motion. I understand the intention behind it, and I think it is even sympathetic, but we are not very much in favour of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u519	One short question, Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u520	For the sake of clarity, I can say that the transitional law does not say 2016 but that the transitional law should apply for a number of years.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u521	Oh!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u522	Yes. Also, the government could have foreseen this last year, when we made a point of it and had no answer at all. Now the government temporarily lowers the limit to €20,000 and raises it to €25,000 next year. In the absence of transitional arrangements, the Secretary of State receives personal letters in a number of cases, which he himself is unable to answer. Does the Secretary of State share this? Is he willing to just give "judge chamber" on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u523	I'm telling you honestly, this is gonna be a mess. I understand the desirability of it in the eyes of those who are doing well with these 5,000 people. In the end, a transitional arrangement is the prelude to something that just disappears, so it eventually disappears. Then all we've got is a whole bunch of go-and-go crap and fuss about it and we're putting people in infinite confusion. I can't put a happy face on this. I'm sorry, I can't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u524	Then the motion to part No. 55
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u525	In the motion in part No. 55 by Mr Omtzigt, Mrs Schouten and Mr Dijkgraaf, the government is asked to give the purchasing power repair a structural character. I don't see any cover for this. This isn't a little thing. Providing structural cover for this is not trivial. That's why I have to discourage the motion. I'm getting to the motion on part No. 56 members Omtzigt, Dijkgraaf and Schouten. This motion concerns the groups on which I said this morning that we can see that it is sanding there. It's always sanding somewhere, but now it's sanding too. All underlying social movements can be defended, but it is unmistakably sanding somewhere. I'll leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. I have an advice here not to do that, but I do. I'll leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber. I understand this movement and I understand the concern. I come to the motion-Bashir c.s. in piece No. 57 on proposals to tax the real return on capital by 2018. I think it's been too long since a ruler got into a lot of trouble with the Tax Administration because things weren't workable. I'm serious about my intentions. I'm gonna work on this, but I really don't like making commitments to drive new unachievable targets into the IRS. For a promise is a promise. If we can do it sooner, it'll happen sooner. If you can't do it, it'll have to wait a little longer. This isn't easy at all. It's not that. I see here a certain disbelief of "he must be chatting" or "the tax authorities have gone crazy." These are my words; Mr Bashir and Mr Van Weyenberg do not say that. However, I do not understand this. I understand the intention, but let's get this straight. We're in a hurry. The Chamber is in a hurry and I'm in a hurry, but I suggest you do it in order. I can also imagine that Members will once look at me and decide not to put this motion to the vote. I'm willing to let you look me in the eye.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u526	If we read the motion differently, the Secretary of State is going to do everything in his power to get it done. So that is an effort obligation. Can the Secretary of State live with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u527	Can the motion state that the Secretary of State sees an extreme obligation to achieve this as quickly as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u528	Mr President, can the motion be amended?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u529	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u530	I'm just having trouble with the year, but not with the intention behind it. I support the intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u531	You can change the motion, Mr Bashir, and then she'll be mailed around.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u532	Yes, and then I'll leave the judgment to the Chamber, because that's what we support. Thank you, sincerely. Now we're on the same page. I come to Mr Bashir's and Mr Groot's motion for a resolution. 58. It calls on the government to come forward with proposals for closing the shortcuts before the summer recess. That's what I, I think, suggested more or less in an earlier thing. It says here "summer recess." Can that be "Taxation Plan 2017"? I'll take a look at the proposers. I don't know if the nod will appear in the Acts as well. I imagine that it is in square brackets: Mr Groot nods. In that case, I'll leave the verdict to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u533	Let me take a look at Mr Groot and Mr Bashir. They say the motion will be amended.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u534	Now I'm going to deal with the motion in part No. 59 by Mr Van Weyenberg and others I've told you, the Empire is always at the table in an active and positive way. Experience in other countries shows that one year is particularly ambitious. My main reason is that I have no mandate to recommend things that are contrary to the coalition agreement. I can't cross that line.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u535	A brief question, Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u536	This is simply a question of fact, Mr President. Was part of the reversal of the countertop subsidy or in the coalition agreement?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u537	I don't remember whether or not that was in there. However, I do not believe that a ruler would have decided on his own almost at midnight to break the coalition agreement on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u538	A brief comment, Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u539	I think this is a little crazy, because we are making proposals here to change things. There are sometimes proposals which the Secretary of State does embrace and which are also different from the coalition agreement. Apparently, that's a rather selective instrument.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u540	Well, receipt. Mr Van Weyenberg has also tabled a motion on coal-fired power stations. That's the motion in part No. 60. It's about not building anymore and also phasing out existing coal plants. That has nothing to do with taxation and so I would be out of line if I said anything about it. I would advise Mr Van Weyenberg to put this down in one way or another with the Minister for Economic Affairs. Another suggestion is to wait for the results of the ibo CO. There is no doubt that this type of measure comes back in one form or another in that investigation. In the motion in part No. 61 is a proposal for the loading posts. I have said that I can imagine that, in that case, we are going to apply a derogation. A new idea has been added. I would ask Mr Van Weyenberg to hold on to this motion, because perhaps there is another route than derogation. That idea was previously investigated and then it was not likely. Now there's another lead to look at. That is the alternative to clustering the charging posts and thus ending up in a higher disk in a legitimate way. Since the request for the second disc was made, that could work. I say to Mr Van Weyenberg that I will tell him whether he has succeeded. Otherwise, I wouldn't mind trying out the other route.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u541	Result counts. That would be very nice. Can the Secretary of State indicate when he expects to be able to let the Chamber know?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u542	Not that, but I'll let you know this week when I can let you know. Shall we? At least the S.S.M. Intent is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u543	Is Mr Van Weyenberg holding this motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u544	I'm gonna take a look at my co-host. Yeah, I'll hold the motion with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u545	At the request of Mr Van Weyenberg, I propose his motion (34302, No. 61). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u546	Thank you very much. In his motion in part No. 62 Mr Van Weyenberg asked the government to urge the social partners to reduce the starting level of regular lowest wage scales. This is actually entirely SZW's policy area. I would advise Mr Van Weyenberg to submit this request to the budget debate on SZW in December.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u547	I'm not gonna do that, and I'll explain why. We are talking today about a law that deals with this. The cabinet has decided that the Minister of SZW is not here. I don't blame the Secretary of State for that, but this is a motion that gets very close to what we're dealing with today, so I think this is weird right now. I would very much like to have a ruling before the votes, but that is a bit the inevitable consequence of the choice of the cabinet on today's representation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u548	Bon, if Mr Van Weyenberg considers the coherence to be so compelling, I am going to try to get an opinion on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u549	Is there going to be a letter about this motion, or are you now giving your opinion on it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u550	No, I'm not gonna judge that. There's a little note about that. The motion in part No. 63 is a question from Mr Klein which I think I have already answered once. He has now put it in motion and has added one word that was not included in his question. I have already promised him that the VAR will continue to be provided to the self-employed until it has been abolished. The motion contains the word "beautiful." If Mr Klein is referring to 'clean' within the legal framework, I have no objection to this motion. So I'd like to hear if that's what he means by the word "beautiful."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u551	I fully agree that it should be within the legal framework, but the law is not always black and white. I am concerned that the grey area plays a more prominent role.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u552	Then we let the professionals within the framework of the law do their thing. If I can interpret it that way, I'm not so opposed to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u553	So the verdict on the motion is up to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u554	Yes, I apologize, the verdict is up to the Chamber. The motion in part No. 64 is intended to extend the tax exemption scheme for volunteers. That scheme is available for fees up to €1,500. The impression is that there will be obvious side-use up there, because what is a volunteer? A person with a small job can then call himself a volunteer and that results in circumvention constructions. This border has been well thought out. I must therefore discourage this motion. In the motion in part No. 65 Mr Klein asked for a remission scheme for supplements in the event of divorce. We have a lot of work to do on collecting unduly paid fees. It's hard on people sometimes, but they've been given something they're not entitled to under the law. That goes for everyone: people who are not divorced, people who have never been married and people who are getting divorced. People getting divorced might need to get it back from the partner. However, I do not see much reason to have to act painfully against a lot of Dutch people in order to recover allowances that they simply were not entitled to under the law. There are all kinds of payment arrangements for......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The Tax Administration acts neatly by offering a lot of different types of payment arrangements and doing so bespokely and generously, with an extensive practice. I don't think any organization knows as much about payment arrangements as the IRS. Then let us not make waiver arrangements for one small group. I am not in favour of that, and advise against the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u555	I made the proposal to look at a maximum payment. The 10% rule didn't like the Secretary of State. Now let me give you an example of a waiver. The question and the call in the motion are just: State Secretary, investigate what solution would be possible. This could be a direction of thought. If we get the outcome the Secretary of State describes, we'll see, but the question is how we can find a solution. That's the way we need to find each other. All I do is make suggestions and all I hear is: sorry people, bad luck.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u556	I do not think that the situation in which the Tax Office recovers fees that the beneficiary was not entitled to is unfair. It's difficult and painful at most. If it creates difficult liquidity, there are payment arrangements for it. That's what the IRS is doing about it. I don't think it's necessarily unfair. There are perhaps quite other people who, in painful circumstances, have to pay a supplement and find it unfair.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u557	And what's your verdict?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u558	My verdict is: dissuade. I told you that before. Then the motion to part No. 66 on better promotion of company bicycles. According to the motion, the number of bicycles provided by a company has fallen dramatically since the introduction of the cost regulation. This could mean that the cost regulation works. The bike can be part of the working costs scheme. There used to be a separate arrangement for the bike. That wasn't a communicating vessel with the rest of the scheme and so people, because there was a separate arrangement for it, maybe just do a bike. Now there is a wider choice; the budgets are merged. And now employers turn out to be less frequent cycling and more often doing other things. That's a choice. The bike is just possible within the working cost regulation. The fact that companies do less may mean that they are making use of the greater choice. I don't think this is a problem and I really want to discourage the motion. Let us not recoup the cost of work and make it complicated. I come to Mr Klein's motion on item No. 67 on alternative medicine. A court ruling forces us to treat in VAT in the same way as other medical professions in a range that is not yet completely clear. I will try to suppress my personal emotions and opinions on this, but it needs to be implemented. The scope remains to be examined. The verdict is being studied. In the written reply, I have already promised to come back to this. With that clause, I can leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. It does not mean that we will necessarily include everything in that area. The pronunciation must first be carefully studied. With that comment, I leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 15 (34083) on the tax exemption for the voluntary allowance for people born in 1951-1955. The motion was filed on 26 March 2015 in the context of the examination of the bill acceleration increase AOW age. The implementation of this motion would lead to age discrimination, which is clearly not allowed. The motion is also uncovered. I must therefore dissuade her, as my colleague has done before. I have now given two reasons.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u559	It's a motion that's been held before. I will ask if she can still be copied and distributed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u560	We shall proceed to the motion by Mr Grashoff and Mr Groot on part No. 68. It calls on me to abolish the exemption for the metallurgical and mineralogic industries at EU level. I said earlier that this should be done unanimously, but that the proposal should also come from the European Commission. There has been contact with the European Commission. She stated that she had no intention of setting this up during the Dutch Presidency. This has further reduced the chances of success of this project. I have to be honest with you about that. There are enough live horses during our presidency, including some of Mr Groot's hobbies, not to pull the dead one. President. - The next item is the motion for a resolution by Mr Grashoff, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party This concerns the adaptation of the EIA scheme. I have indicated earlier that an increase of 50 million is feasible, but that I do not see an increase of 100 million. That was explained in the letter. I must discourage the motion for that reason. In the Van Vliet motion on part No. 70 the Government is requested to delete Article 10b, as the article is not applied. That article is not being applied? That article has a strong preventive effect. If it is abolished, the possibility is opened to create a double dip through mismatches: subtracting in the Netherlands but possibly not paying taxes abroad. Because of its preventive effect, I particularly like to keep the article in the law and therefore advise against the motion in part No. 70. The motion in part No. 71 is a motion by Mr Van Vliet in which he asks the Government to examine how the scope of the Court of Justice judgment, which relates to the above-mentioned rules, can be limited in order not to extend the above-mentioned rules to immovable property situated abroad. That survey of monuments has already been carried out and it has shown that we are obliged to grant that deduction, but that a restriction can be applied by the Netherlands. This limitation means that a consumer's property must be an element of the Dutch cultural heritage. As a result, the base has been greatly reduced. Allocation of the tax law in the Tax Convention is not relevant, but in a way you can say that the motion has already been implemented. That's why I'm dissuading the motion. Let us take ourselves seriously: we do not need to adopt a motion that has already been carried out. The motion in part No. 72 is a motion by Mrs Neppérus and, yes, that motion is about the locational climate. In the BEPS letter, I announced that the cabinet would come forward with proposals. They must, of course, fit within the burden framework and the arrangements that have been made. It's got to be focused on substance, but I already told you that. I see this motion as a warm support for cabinet policy. Mrs Neppérus and I will be happy to discuss the further proposals. I'll ask her to be flexible about the deadline. The motion states September 2016 and that is very soon after the Presidency. We are still taking a breath, also in this area, and that is why I ask her to be on that deadline somewhere else in the year 2016, so that we can talk about it at that time. If she wishes to be flexible, I can strongly recommend this motion to everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u561	Let me be flexible. I shall, of course, exercise some flexibility, but I will, of course, keep a close eye on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u562	The motion will therefore be amended.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u563	Smooth but tough! In his motion in part No. 74 Mr Krol asked the government, the increase in the income-dependent Zvw premium, i.e. the IAB, to reverse the income-dependent contribution for pensioners and to cover this budget neutrally. Well, to cover budget neutral! I know what Mr Krol means by that. This means that the burden now on the elderly and those workers themselves, to an even greater extent, will be transferred as a whole to the workers. This is good for the elderly, because it improves them, but it is uncomfortable for workers, because it increases the burden on labour. I wouldn't recommend that. The millions note carefully looked at the purchasing power of older people. The repair took this into account. If that had happened, you would have had a different effect in the repair. In that sense, it is also a bit of a pocket-jacket bag for 2016. I'm dissuading the motion. The motion in part No. 75 also belongs to Mr Krol. It invites the Government to refrain from setting an age limit for the extended grant scheme. That's an expensive guy. I therefore think it would be much better to have an amendment with cover. Now it's not covered and that's why I have to discourage the motion. I have a few more questions to answer before I can begin with the amendments. Mr Krol asks what I actually mean by my saying that people should be encouraged at the productive stage. I do not want to say in any way that one age group is above the other. Each age group has its own merits. However, I would like to point out that at some stages of life there is clearly a kind of rush hour of life. The burden is the hardest, the time is the tightest and the opportunities to build up prosperity, even for old age. That is a stage in which we must be careful with our taxpayers. We should not hinder them from going to work. We must allow them to work and build power, to build prosperity. In this sense, it is worthwhile, including for the elderly, to be tax-free at an earlier stage of life. That's what I meant: if you're allowed to use the tax advantages of life as pianos before you're born, a lot of people are likely to choose to use them in the rush hour of life and not in the period after that. I think I have answered all the questions put by Mr Van Weyenberg. No, not quite. He has put me in the mouth that I would have rejected his amendment because it creates too many jobs. I do not think I am the first person today to blame Mr Van Weyenberg for putting words in my mouth. I think he is an excellent debater and I think he does not need this technique in the debate. I think that's unnecessary. He can give up on that. I say what I say; let us give each other room in it. There are all kinds of amendments. I don't know if they're all structured; I have a lot of paper here. A fairly important amendment is that in part No. 72 (34302). I understand that this is accompanied by an amendment to item No. 11 is in the budget of the Ministry of Social Affairs (34300-XV). This amendment also states: 'This amendment regulates the revenue from the reduction of the rate of the second and third discs (...)'. I thought it was about lowering less. At least that's how I understand what's in there. The amendment in part No. 72 is the amendment tabled by Mr Dijkgraaf, Mrs Schouten, Mr Omtzigt and Mr Bashir. Mr Dijkgraaf called it an outstretched hand. Yes, I will interpret it as an outstretched hand. At the same time, I can say that the CPB is working on this and that this is analysing the amendment to the same version as the previous one. In the calculation there are irrevocable pluses and minuses. On the one hand, there will be a slight reduction in employment due to the increase to 70% transferable rather than 76% transferable. On the other hand, it will cost a little more employment because the rate will be increased in the second and third sections as well as the application of higher family allowances. All in all, the estimate, before the CPB's final calculation, is that this would mean about 35,000 jobs. I know Mr Dijkgraaf's views on this. Those are his views. I don't want to influence them either. However, he also knows my position with regard to the CPB calculations. I don't think we need to discuss that anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u564	A brief question, Mr Dijkgraaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u565	I am not so much interested in the appreciation of the Secretary of State for the CPB, because we know it, and we hear it as well as I do in my appreciation of the CPB, which is very high as it is in anything else. If the Secretary of State so requests to the CPB, does he not think that the outcome is irrelevant, because it is not a literal pass-through of the amendment before us?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u566	Now we fall into beliefs. I don't know if that's productive. In all honesty, I do not agree with Mr Dijkgraaf's view. In fact, I think that if the CPB gets a variant in which a one-off jump is made up, the CPB has every reason to think that the rest of the falling line is not untouchable. The inviolability is assumed by the one who is right in affecting the line, namely the author of this amendment. If I'd worked at the CPB, I might have thought the same thing. That's irrelevant, because I don't work at the CPB. Mr Dijkgraaf also does not work at the CPB. I have a number of suggestions, because yes, I see this as an outstretched hand, but no, I cannot accept an amendment that formally allows me to use that word, to meet Mr Dijkgraaf, a job loss is equal to the job gain of the entire Tax Plan. I'm gonna make some suggestions. I would like to redesign the phasing-out of the transferable general tax rebate. If I think very deeply about what that is like, I can convey it telepathically to Mr Dijkgraaf and now he knows how to do it. You only have to blow it three times and you have a version that can handle it. I would also like to draw his attention to the measure. It's up to him in the end, but I'm gonna call attention to that. So I see this as an outstretched hand, but I don't think we're there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u567	This is a brief, explanatory remark, Mr Dijkgraaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u568	Yes, Mr. Chairman, I can be very brief. If the Secretary of State says here now, after all the discussions we've had, "I don't think we're here," then I don't think we're going to get there either, because I'm not going to change anything about this amendment at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u569	Clear. Mr Van Weyenberg, only if it is important for your voting behaviour, but we are not going to discuss Mr Dijkgraaf's amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u570	I have asked a question about this amendment, Mr President, and I have not yet received an answer to it, so I think it is normal that I should ask for it now. I asked whether this amendment, like the predecessor of this amendment, would be sent immediately by the Ministry to the CPB to have it passed on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u571	That's what I started. That was my first statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u572	No. The Secretary of State said if we wanted to pass it on. My question is whether I have understood correctly to the Secretary of State that it is being asked or perhaps requested and that it is also being asked for tomorrow's vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u573	"Tomorrow before the votes..." Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u574	The point I made to Mr Van Weyenberg also applies to you, Mr Grashoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u575	I haven't received a clear answer from the Secretary of State, although it's a bit of a problem. Does he simply advise the amendment as it is now? I'd like to know that very clearly. Is it dissuaded now or is it not dissuaded?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u576	The way it is now, I've had to dissuade it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u577	I would also like to make a point of order. If we are going to change all kinds of things tomorrow morning on the basis of conversations, I would ask for the votes to be postponed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u578	That is what you can do tomorrow in the organisation of work.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u579	I shall now turn to the Van Weyenberg/Bashir amendment to item No. 51 (34302). Do I understand correctly that coverage is taken from reducing the coal tax?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u580	Yes. There are two measures in the greening field in this amendment, and with the proceeds of which the reduction in working time is reduced. Indeed, one of these two measures is not to abolish the coal tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u581	Yes. We've talked about that before. On the basis of this and because I cannot blow up the energy agreement here, I must almost advise against this amendment, even though I think that greening in the Netherlands will benefit from an energy agreement. I shall now turn to Amendment No 1, which seeks to make it clear that the Commission is not prepared to accept Amendment No 2. 53 (34302). Their introduction may take place on 1-1-2016. I leave the opinion on this amendment to the Chamber. Then I come to the Van Weyenberg amendment to item No. 52 (34302). Mr Van Weyenberg undoubtedly has different information than I do. But no matter how I look, I really think that nothing changes in practice and in the definition of ICT in the Wbso. However, there are complaints about ambiguity, because the texts that are on paper are misleading. The aim is really to ensure that the texts are consistent with the practice in force in order to avoid misunderstandings. It's not a goal to tie this up. In fact, even more so, and perhaps we need to find a solution there. The Ministry estimates almost the same support for ICT projects as before. The Ministry doesn't expect to change that. Perhaps, in consultation with the Ministry of Economic Affairs, we could set up a kind of monitoring system for this purpose. If things change all of a sudden, maybe it's true that it could be because of the definition. The department doesn't expect any change there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u582	I expect and hope that we have no difference in purpose. I note that there are very serious concerns in the ICT sector. The Secretary of State should be able to see my inbox. The reports are all about how this is going to work out in practice. I would prefer to keep my amendment and ask the Secretary of State to talk to the sector to see where this is and to remove it. However, this cannot be done. With this amendment, I call on the Secretary of State not to do it yet. On the day when there is another solution with the ICT sector, I look forward to any legislative amendment or amendment by the Secretary of State. I don't want to be complicated at all, but I'm getting a lot of concern from the sector. I think this is a shame. Perhaps the Secretary of State could talk to the sector, even if this amendment did not make it. It is my preference that this amendment should succeed. If the Secretary of State says in another plan that, after proper consultation, he's going to change things that will make it work, I'm his husband. I'm getting really, really worried signals.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u583	I am playing with another's policy area here, because this is Mr Kamp's policy area. Maybe we should do and-and. I'm gonna have to stick with dissuaded. At the same time, I will ask my colleague's ministry to make further progress. Perhaps Mr Van Weyenberg can help me by making the e-mails he received available to the department together with the arguments. For the moment, I am 'dissuade' the opinion and I say that I will pass it on to my colleague in order to clarify it as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u584	I thank the Secretary of State for this willingness and will ensure that the contact details of the representatives of the sector reach the staff of the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u585	Mr Van Weyenberg has tabled an amendment on the grant exemption in his own home. Coverage is a more often mentioned and attractive; again, there is a long line for the cash counter. I should like to leave the judgement to the Chamber. This is the amendment on the part of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. 48 to replace the amendment to item No. 21. A lot of correspondence has been made about the replacement of care costs. I have also spoken to Mrs Schouten about this myself. The intention is sympathetic, as well as the care. I have a few objections. I can't help but report this one. Coverage isn't so much against it. In order to make some of this available to the TOG-plus, there is a price to be paid. It is also about the scheme expenditure on specific care costs. This even amounts to 100 million. This is not a simple boy. This has been under consideration for many years. We have a group here without and a group with Wmo. For the group without Wmo, no different, negative purchasing power effects are seen, for the group with Wmo, but all kinds of municipal regulations have not been taken into account in the measurement. Actually, we're not even sure yet. The Wmo has been calculated generically and all the specific municipal policies have not been taken into account. We don't know that. There may be a problem, Mrs Schouten's concerns are not taken out of the air, but it is not certain. What is certain is that repair for that group through this instrument is only very limited. It concerns, for example, people with daily consumption or household help. This does not reach that group at all, because those things are not deductible. We may have a problem in one of the two parts. That is precisely the group that is not very good at making use of this scheme. So that's very unfocused. I can imagine otherwise. Mrs Schouten's concern is not weird, because this arrangement has not been wrestled for a long time. We've tried something once. Things have been done now. The Wmo is on. An evaluation will take place in 2016. I can imagine that it would be worthwhile looking at what is really going on as a result of that evaluation. We will then have a look at the problem and at a wider range of possible solutions. It's not that crazy, either, after you start doing something new, to see if it works before you do anything new. I would certainly not ask Mrs Schouten to withdraw the amendment, but I can imagine that she will somehow maintain something with this intention until the evaluation is there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u586	An amendment cannot be accepted.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u587	Yeah, that's complicated. I'm improvising a little bit now. I am trying to say that, in my opinion, the timing of the evaluation is the right time and that we will not necessarily come to this instrument. I find this amount, for an instrument with which we probably do not aim to solve a problem that is not certain either, a very thickly invested sandwich. At the same time, care can be honored, but I think it belongs to the evaluation. That's what I'm trying to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u588	I'm not gonna do the whole debate about this. We have simply made it clear that this amendment is particularly important to us, even crucial when considering how we are going to look at the Tax Plan. It is true that amendments cannot be retained. So I'm not gonna wait for the evaluation either. There may be one next year, but before it is discussed again, we will be a year further. A measure would only have an effect in a year or three. This amendment has been drawn up in close consultation with client organisations and the interest groups of people with chronic illness or disability. I rest my case. I will simply table the amendment and then we will see what happens.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u589	I know Mrs Schouten's determination on this point. Nor do I have the illusion that she is being influenced by my advice. I can easily imagine that the same applies to other groups. On the basis of the content, however, I must advise against this amendment, but it is of course the groups themselves who make their assessment. I have already replied to the amendment on energy taxation for large consumers. The thing was called 40 then. We already knew then that there would be a new version; his friend is called 50. Anyway, I've dealt with that before. I think I've had everything I need. Probably not?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u590	I have a question about the previous amendment. I was wondering whether the reaction of the Secretary of State was not a little short, as he thought the coverage of the amendment was very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u591	I said earlier that I had concerns here about various sectors, including care, education, chemistry and so on. I have previously advised against this amendment. I'll hold that here. I see what it says here. You're gonna have to do it with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u592	I would like to come back to my amendment to item No. 44 (34302) on metallurgical and mineralogic processes. The Secretary of State has more or less advised against this with reference to the coverage. I asked the Secretary of State to propose alternative cover so that we can finally settle that exemption. In other countries there is currently an exemption. I understand that part of the Chamber wants that exemption to be abolished in other countries. As long as that exemption is there, there is unfair competition.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u593	It is busier for the counter where the cover is available than for the different counters for expenditure. Coverage is a scarce article. A lot of things have come along and a choice can be made from it, but more charities are displaced for one cover. If I had a lot of cover in my back pocket, it would probably have been nailed somewhere. It is clear that the greater the scope for coverage, the quicker the groups can be brought together. So I don't have them in my back pocket anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u594	Finally, Mr Bashir.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u595	It is an important part of the debate, so I would like to discuss it. What if we look for coverage not only with electricity, but also with gas, not only in the highest disk, but also in the second-highest disk?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u596	This will be discussed openly at midnight in the plenary. I think there are all kinds of ideas in Mr Bashir that may be very valuable. That is why we have the amendment service. I want to respond to it with all my love, but then more sunk, more studied. Once again, if I could pull the covers out of my back pocket, I would have done so for many other purposes in this Chamber, because the question of coverage has been raised more often today.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u597	Is the Secretary of State prepared to put this on paper for a very short time, in any way, before tomorrow's votes? This has been part of the debate we have had for 34 hours. It would be nice if we could just settle this, including for industry and for employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u598	Let us do this through the regular channels. Amendments may be tabled until the vote. For that we have an amendment service, very professional, well thought out, better than an improvising Eric Wiebes at noon. Let's do it this way. We are going to try to make something of it before the votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u599	Mr Krol.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u600	Good morning, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u601	Good morning to you, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u602	It's only a few hours before we vote. There will be a lot of changes, there will be a lot of advice. The Secretary of State also advises us to discuss this with each other and see if the support can be increased. Does the Secretary of State think it wise that we should vote tomorrow at 2:00 p.m.? Could that not be much better next Tuesday, so that we can do it more carefully?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u603	Mr Krol, that's what the Chamber is about, not the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u604	That's what I was about to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u605	I'd like to know the advice, because I feel really rushed. I find this irresponsible. I think people do not understand that we are driving through this important Tax Plan with steam and boiling water.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u606	I think Mr Krol has just answered his own question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u607	We are going to vote tomorrow at the beginning of the afternoon meeting. Perhaps this can be done by the end of the afternoon, I do not know, but the Chamber is about when the votes will take place. There will also be an arrangement of work tomorrow. That's where you can make your request. Are we going to have an order debate now, Mrs Schouten?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u608	I have a question about two amendments, at least one of my own, which have not been tabled here because they refer to the Social Affairs budget, but are covered by amendments proposed here. I'd appreciate a Cabinet Juice Appreciation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u609	Which amendment exactly are you referring to?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u610	The amendment on family allowances and TOG-plus.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u611	We'll have to organize that. I can tell by nodding that that's possible. This is an important request we're taking up.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u612	I don't know if I missed anything, because it's late. The Christian parties have tabled two amendments. They form the outstretched hand, allowing this Secretary of State to obtain a majority for this Tax Plan. Am I to understand that this Secretary of State has rejected that outstretched hand in both cases?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u613	In my advice, I said that employment is very important. As Mr Van Dijck knows, many people are voting; not by me. It is up to Members to decide which proposals they will or will not support. The cabinet has always had jobs at its forefront. That's where I work with the CPB. That has led me to these opinions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u614	That's obvious. The Secretary of State has therefore advised against both amendments. Can he imagine that the coalition parties would still vote for it, while their Secretary of State would advise against it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u615	Everyone has their own role. Groups are about their voting behaviour. I look at the various motions and amendments in substance. Let's keep that role-sharing going, or it's gonna be a mess.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-8.u616	The intention is to vote tomorrow on the legislative proposals, amendments and motions for resolutions. I would like to thank the Secretary of State, the MPs who have indeed had a marathon session, the officials, the messengers, the people who have followed this debate over the Internet and the stenography service, of course. I'm closing the meeting.
