ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u1	I give the floor to Mr Van Meenen. He has indicated that he will speak for fifteen minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u2	Mr. Chairman. I look forward to next year's budget debate. When I open the newspaper in the morning on the day of the budget debate, I see all the great ideas of the coalition parties. One year or two ago, these were the ideas of D66, after which they were carefully fired by the coalition, to present them as brand new on this day. Delicious. I count my blessings, but I would like to do it a little bit more efficiently this time and recommend that we go along with my proposals today. Whose education is it? This question is not easy to answer. Previously it was special education of parents and public education of the government. Now it seems that education is mainly from the school boards. They are about whether or not to accept students and they may or may not ignore advice from parents, teachers, students and students. In the end, however, education belongs to all of us. The question is how do we make education really everyone? The question for whom we do it is more unambiguous: for students and students. We want to give them the best luggage for their future, because that is ultimately in the interests of our society as a whole. It is therefore strange that in education we have better established the position of the school boards than that of the pupils. Our education laws are aimed at educational providers and not at educational enthusiasts or enthusiasts. Our system leads to educational institutions that only allow students or students who already score well. Institutions also allow students or students because this is financially more attractive. The funding is not aimed at the student, but at the school. Passage is not rewarded but made expensive. If a school wants to offer a chance to a child by looking for a higher level of success, it will be punished in the context of drainage if it does not succeed. Students have a compulsory education, but what is compulsory education worth if there is no school that can provide you with education? What good is a secretary of state trying to force you to go to school when there's no school that can give you a suitable place? It is the drama of appropriate education and thousands of homeowners. This creates opportunities for children and therefore, in line with international treaties, D66 advocates a legal right to education. It is really too crazy for words that this does not exist in the Netherlands. Of course, care is required here. That is why we propose that the Netherlands Centre for Education Law, in which professors cooperate on education law, should carry out research into how a learning right can be enshrined in the law, perhaps even in the Constitution. Whose education is it? Too often decisions are taken on education, without those who are at the heart of education having a say in decision-making. However, this is necessary in order to improve the quality and flexibility of education. After all, they know best what good education is and they know best how to adapt to the rapidly changing world. They know what skills students need, and I say it to Mr Beertema just to get into the labour market, to start their own business, to do research, or whatever. Therefore, the legislative proposal on strengthening administrative power is a missed opportunity. As far as D66 is concerned, it is precisely about strengthening participation. Therefore, in the run-up to the debate on this subject, I will come up with my own participation plan which contains concrete points to really strengthen participation. Some of them cannot be surprising: right of assent on the main lines of the budget, right of assent on the appointment of directors, the allocation model as a natural part of the main lines of the budget, and the student's presence at the meeting of the board of directors, which should have been settled for a long time. Such elements will be part of the plan. I hope to find a lot of partners for it. The Co-determination Support Point risks disappearing due to lack of resources. Is the Secretary of State prepared to ensure the continued existence of this important focal point for participation? Then I'll come to the money and the teachers. D66 has said it many times: appropriate education is a nice thought, but to offer customization extra hands in the classroom are needed. With puff classes and growing differences in the classroom, appropriate education remains a lip service. On Monday we received the message that the 150 million euros that this cabinet had reserved to hire young teachers in schools was not spent on that, but on teachers sitting at home. So that promise didn't come true, while those extra hands in the classroom are so incredibly needed. How is the Secretary of State going to ensure that the money is spent on additional teachers? How's he gonna get unemployed teachers back to work? How does the Secretary of State respond to the PO Council's message that the extra money is not sufficient to compensate for the rising costs in primary education? This observation is, moreover, in line with the report of the General Court of 2013. This isn't the only thing that worries D66. The wage agreement concluded by Minister Plasterk with the unions also threatens to keep teachers in the bank rather than in the classroom. This is particularly true if the pension premium is going to increase rather than decrease. The same budget for schools, but rising employers' burdens: this is a recipe for education in the tights and fewer teachers at work. Has the Secretary of State discussed this with his colleague Plasterk? Can he guarantee that rising pension contributions do not lead to larger classes?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u3	I hear Mr Van Meenen summing up all kinds of things. He speaks of increased pension contributions, increased WW contributions and increased over-statutory WW contributions. He is asking a number of questions about this to the Secretary of State, who I think are quite obligatory. He asks if this means anything for the size of the class. I believe that every euro we spend not on teachers but on these kinds of things means that there is less money for education. Does Mr Van Meenen have any idea how we can change that, so that the money gets into class?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u4	I have put forward proposals on the control of teachers, parents and students as to where the money is going. I will repeat it in the course of the discussion of the strengthening of administrative power bill. Moreover, we should not have high expectations in primary education that this will suddenly lead to major shifts there, because that is where the overhead is extremely small. After all, primary schools are not responsible for their own new buildings, because these are the municipalities. That is not where the solution will lie. I therefore believe that extra investment should be made in primary education in particular. That is why my group has in the General Political Reviews that want to achieve an additional 100 million for appropriate education. I'm afraid that didn't work out. I do not see the solution either, but it can only be found in the cabinet. An agreement has been reached with the expectation that pension contributions will fall. That is the responsibility of this cabinet. I'm not gonna take it. However, I am in favour of the strict condition that the classes do not increase.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u5	The CDA Group supported the motion for extra money for appropriate education, but it did not achieve a majority. We have to see that with each other. That is the reality we are living in now. My question to D66 is next. If you see that there is now a lot of money going on in pensions and other matters -- that's all prejudged by the PO Council and we've all got that data -- what's D66's answer? Does she accept this reality, or does she want to bend it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u6	It is not clear enough for me to bend over; that sounds like cuts to me, and we do not want that, of course. We've been wanting to invest extra in education for years. We did. The fact that there is also a plus in primary education, in addition to those loves, is due, among other things, to the autumn agreement, which the CDA unfortunately did not participate in, but which adds EUR 289 million to primary education every year. We can see from the figures from the PO Council that this is not enough to cover the rising costs. My group is concerned about this, but at the moment it considers the problem that arises in primary education, especially as a problem of this cabinet. That is what caused it by concluding that agreement and then failing to honour the agreements, which I think is a very bad thing. Recently, a ranking was published by the OECD and the Netherlands was at the top of the list. This is normally good news, but not in this case, because in the Netherlands education contributes most to inequality. So that's not a list you want to be on top of. Shameful, actually. The recent report on education systems compared indicates that early selection as in the Netherlands is related to social inequality in learning outcomes. It is good that we are now looking at a revision of the curriculum with Education 2032 but more is needed for the future. An education system that promotes inequality is, as far as my group is concerned, a bankrupt system. Where's the flow and where's the customization? For D66: on the shovel with the shufflebox model in which you are pushed unrelentingly into a box after a run-up to the primary school and where you have to defy the laws of aerodynamics to get into another box. Are the directors willing to look with the Education Council to see how we can set up our educational system in such a way that equal opportunities, flow, flow and tailor-made work become the norm again? Let me now turn to the refugee children. All children are entitled to good education. At present, many schools host children who have just fled a war zone. Teachers do everything in their power to provide these children with good education, sometimes in special classes, sometimes in regular education. This requires a lot because they are children with emotional baggage and lack of knowledge of Dutch, although they often learn quickly. D66 believes that we should also offer these children a chance for a hopeful and bright future. This means that there must be sufficient hands in the classroom and sufficient funding. This calls for a more flexible handling of the moments of measurement on which funding is based. We also need to consider how we can provide additional guidance for these children and for these schools in the short term. Is it possible, for example, to hire temporarily unemployed teachers for this purpose? What's in the way of that? Can teachers with a pabo diploma also be used for first-care education, the international link classes? At present, this is reserved for the VET group, but as far as D66 is concerned, pabo-qualified people are also perfectly capable of providing this education; perhaps they can do so even if no other. For refugee children who have had education in the Netherlands for more than a year, the training of parents is looked at. Often the parents are well trained, while the children are still lagging behind. This can not only put the children, but also the schools in trouble. Does the Secretary of State recognize this problem and want to look for a solution? I shall now make a proposal to solve a number of problems with one stone. That must sound like music to the rulers. How can we increase the investment opportunities of schools, prevent speculation with educational money and in the meantime reduce public debt? It could be through treasury banking. Instead of depositing assets on an Icelandic bank or putting them in risky real estate, they are placed under government control. This will also enable projects, such as initial investment in ICT projects or other projects, to be financed responsibly. D66 proposes that schools and educational institutions should have treasury banking as municipalities and provinces are already doing. Are the Secretary of State and Secretary of State prepared to look into that? I'm coming up on digitization. In many ways, our daily lives have changed due to the rise of ICT and the Internet, but education has not yet sufficiently penetrated that digital revolution. I am therefore pleased that more attention will be paid to digital skills and programming in the curriculum. Last year, D66 suggested the same thing. If I have to believe Twitter, more and more parties see its importance, but it still needs to be demonstrated in the votes. So let us not wait too long and start training teachers for this profession. Is the Minister prepared to develop a plan of action in this respect? ICT is not a panacea for any problem in education, but digitalisation offers opportunities for the quality of education and for tailor-made work. In order to make the most of the opportunities offered by ICT, it is important that teachers discuss how they can best use ICT in their lessons. It is often new techniques that teachers have to learn to work with. Then it helps if they can hear from other teachers what is possible. D66 therefore advocates using the teacher fair in such a way that teachers can share best practices of digital education. Is the Secretary of State prepared to make this possible? ICT opportunities lie not only in higher education. The best possible use should be made of this product in all sectors. However, many schools, especially in primary education, do not yet have the fast and adequate internet available, and that is downright bad. What is the Secretary of State going to do about this as a matter of urgency? I come to lifelong learning. The Minister rightly writes in her recent letter that rapid technological developments call for continuous retraining, retraining and retraining of people. It takes a government to encourage people to do that. I am pleased that the Minister is working on a number of points, but I am disappointed that she does not want to embrace the extension of the study advance to people over 30 years of age. According to the study, a study advance facility of between 2% and 5% of the working population over 30 could convince them to take up training. That sounds limited, but out of a total of about 4 million people between 30 and 55 years of age, 80,000 to 200,000 people could be trained as a result of this possibility. Doesn't the Minister think it's worth making sure that these people are also going to receive this education? Does it really want to work on lifelong learning instead of just saying warm words about it? I'd like to deal with some loose topics. In an interim ruling, the College of Appeals for Higher Education questioned the "nominal is normal" policy of Erasmus University. A student successfully challenged the binding study advice he received. According to the college, a binding study advice is intended to see if a student can handle a particular study. For this it is not necessary that a student achieves all points in one year. Does the Minister agree with the College and with D66 and what conclusions does it draw from this ruling? The Dutch language and cultural education abroad is incredibly valuable, but soon the funding will stop. The Secretary of State writes in response to questions from D66 that it is the responsibility of parents to pay. And if they don't want or can't afford it, that's the end of Dutch education abroad, the Secretary of State writes. D66 strongly disagrees with that. Dutch education for Dutch children is as valuable in the Netherlands as abroad. Why is this distinction made? I'd like to hear a response to this. What can we do to keep this? The next point concerns green education. There has been a lot of changes, but for my group it is clear that the green education must go to OCW. Mr Slob had already commented on this in the General Political Reviews. I wholeheartedly agree with that. We are done: green education belongs to the Ministry of Education. The word actually says it already!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u7	I heard my name, and then, of course, I'll spring right up. I've learned that since I was a kid. My esteemed college rightly states that something must be done with green education. Indeed, I also think that green education should eventually go to OCW. That has been quite a process. But then the financial problem remains. What is the financial solution for green education in the view of the D66 Group? The problem is very urgent for the aocs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u8	It is constantly said, also by the Minister, that this funding must be equal. We can now conclude from all kinds of studies that there are at least questions. It's probably not even. We are told that from all sides. That's where we're gonna have to solve. If, for example, the funding in the green mbo is less than in the other mbo, that is obviously too crazy for it. There's no sensible reason for that. This is because I say that there is a policy of its own at That policy must therefore stop and the policy must be brought into line with that of OCW. In my group's view, this can only happen if OCW is responsible for this. That'll raise new questions. We'll see about that. However, it cannot be the case that 15,000 pupils in this country receive education of insufficient quality.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u9	I agree. Last year, of course, we had the problem of 2%. We have been able to tackle this problem thanks to the fraction of D66. At the time, the VVD was involved in this. In my view, we have arranged this almost Chamberwide, perhaps even Chamberwide. There is, of course, one more problem: that a cut in the coalition agreement has been agreed which I do not think has been properly considered. That austerity is working pretty hard in green education. I agree with Mr Van Meenen that we really need to get rid of that problem. It's best to get green education to OCW. Then everyone is treated equally and there is no distinction between the rocks and the aocs. However, it must also be regulated in the budget. I say this to Mr Van Meenen, and I will say it to the rulers in my own contribution. However, I also say it to the coalition: think with it, because if we do nothing now, there will be a really big problem. Moreover, we agree entirely with each other when it comes to saying that something must be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u10	I couldn't agree more. There has been a brief discussion of the DP card for underage talents. We've seen the dance girls here. My group also believes that this needs to be resolved, especially since the coalition has also spoken firm words about it. I call on the coalition, in particular, once again to do something about this now. Then we will certainly agree to that. Otherwise, we're gonna figure it out another way. I recently learned of a plan by Mr. Eric van 't Zelfde of that superschool in Rotterdam-Zuid. You know him. He's got a plan to take that neighborhood even further with the help of the school, but he's running out of money. I can't take care of it here either. I would like to draw attention to it, both for the space in rules that must be there but also for the money. I'm just asking the Minister if there's any possibility of doing this after all. I think there is an opportunity here to help the students about whom we are most concerned in the Netherlands. Of course, I hesitate to bring that up here; it is unusual to do so, but it is also an unusual situation there, so I dare to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u11	In my term, I have also argued for a small experimental budget so that we can make possible initiatives such as the Promise Academy in Rotterdam, a wonderful initiative, and then research them scientifically well to see how the right of access for all children to the child centres can take shape. In Rotterdam they build on that and that is what they want, a right of access for all children. They're running out of money for that for the next two years. Does Mr Van Meenen agree with me that there should be a small experimental budget for this? Then I'm really only talking about 2 million, which allows you to make different initiatives in the country possible and which can then scientifically well underpin them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u12	If that also helps, of course, but I would ask the PvdA to take care of the budget, otherwise we will have the same situation as unfortunately for appropriate education. Then we are all in agreement here, but then there is again no appropriate cover and then we are just as far from home. So if Mrs Ypma is kind enough to put that 2 million in the budget for a moment, she will find me entirely on her side. I haven't found that amount yet!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u13	That's a fair point, because who bounces can expect the ball. Otherwise, together, let's make this request to the cabinet. This is only a small budget, so perhaps we can put this question together. I've already done that in my term, I hope D66 supports that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u14	Totally. As we sometimes say in education, this kind of money falls out of the folds of the curtains at OCW, I think. Oh, there are no curtains. Then it's just on the ground. I'll help you find it. The COC has referred to asylum seekers who feel unsafe, bullied and threatened because of their sexual orientation and has made a number of proposals. Is the Minister prepared to write to the Chamber in which it responds to the actions requested by the COC?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u15	Thank you very much, Mr Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u16	It was once again my pleasure to serve among you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u17	It was a pleasure listening to you. We are not done with that, because Mr Van Dijk has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u18	I would have expected Mr Van Meenen to bring it up himself; we had a nice little debate on it this morning. Medical students made a plea yesterday about the damage done to them by the loan system. In their case, they have little opportunity to update and the debts are huge. Then Mr Van Meenen suggested that we should see if we can come up with a solution on this point. So I'm very curious about that. Those students argue for an allowance of €280, the basic grant. Do you come up with something like that or do I have to give you any more suggestions?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u19	Apart from the question of whether my group should come up with that, I think everyone should be entitled to do so. I think that, as is very common in other training courses, an internship allowance would be in place for people you ask to work 50 to 60 hours. After all, that is what it comes down to, I also know from my own immediate surroundings. So I would like to cooperate on that, if that is an answer to your question. The qualification about the loan system I'll leave for a moment. Loan system or not, this should have been like this a long time ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u20	That is, of course, the whole point. Last year we had a wide-ranging debate on this loan system. We disagree. You wanted me to. I didn't want you to. But also the medical students came by. Then why didn't you wake up until now? I appreciate that you want to think about a solution, but why have you only just woken up? We knew that last year, but you did not support my amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u21	No, that's because Mr Van Dijk brought this subject to us in a litany of misery that would come before us and in which it was difficult to discern what would really happen and what would not. The groups that have supported the loan system have always said that they remain very critical of implementation and that they will adjust the system where necessary. That's not the request of these students. These students say: we think the loan system is a good plan in itself, but our situation is different from the situation of all other students in the Netherlands, because we are supposed to work 50 to 60 hours a week for three years; therefore we have no other option but to ask for compensation for the internship costs. This is very common in the care sector. It also happens in the MBO, for example. That is why I think that the request to the Minister to look into the possibilities for an internship allowance for these people is excellent.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u22	What a joyous news: the loan system is only a year old and the first batch begins with its demolition. That's a good thing, because the CDA would like that, too. After all, the loan system doesn't work. We are going to table a motion to give these students a decent remuneration. Is Mr Van Meenen prepared to finance this from the proceeds of the loan system?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u23	I'm just waiting on that motion. The proceeds of the loan system are not, in principle, intended for this purpose. They are intended for the quality of education and they are not used for this. This concerns the question of whether or not an internship fee is justified for people who have to do so. So I'm not saying yes in advance. What Mr Rog is doing now, I find a little too easy. Moreover, Mr Rog continues to do so: he draws with the greatest ease from the proceeds of the autumn agreement, from the proceeds of the loan system, all of which raise a total amount of 1.5 billion that will improve the quality of education, but to which the CDA has not contributed a euro. It might also be good for the CDA to come up with something for once that will allow extra investment in education rather than just calling for others to do so to make choices that are not Mr Rog's choices.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u24	I'm just gonna go back to what this is all about. We have a loan system, we have negative effects, and we want to solve them. Mr Van Meenen of D66 says: I also want to contribute to a solution. In that he finds the opposition to the loan system on his side, but if it cannot be financed from the proceeds of the loan system, then I would like to hear what D66 sees as a real cover for this defect. We want to solve this. D66 says with the mouth that it wants to participate, then I also want butter with the fish: how does D66 pay for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u25	That's pretty easy. Mr. Rog wants to solve it, and D66 can give us some cover. I really can't go along with that. I would say to Mr Rog: why don't you look creatively for yourself and look for resources yourself, instead of seeing where others have already made sharp choices and thus freed up resources, and then say that it has to come from there. I really think that's...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u26	You don't agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u27	...a sign of poverty.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u28	Mr. Chairman. Today and tomorrow we are discussing the education budget. I actually think that is a good time to express appreciation for all those men and women who work daily at all these different levels to give good education to young people, and to those who support them in it. Respect for what they do. I would also like to express respect for the two directors who are here with us to defend their budget. The Christian Union does not always agree with their choices, but that is without prejudice to our respect for them for their work. They too are looking for something that we assume and I do not doubt at all that it is good for the young people in the Netherlands and for those who teach them. There's a lot going well, but there's also concern. These are concerns that we can also see as a challenge. In the speaking time of the Christian Union, I would like to mention a number of them, namely the decline in apprenticeship numbers, higher unemployment among teachers, the proper introduction of appropriate education for each pupil in regular or special education wherever in the Netherlands, more refugee children in school and the cuts in green education. I'll start with the drop in the number of students. As we know, we have also worked to ensure that the small school allowance is maintained. That has, as we estimate, prevented a lot of damage. However, there are still major concerns. Last year, 124 primary schools were closed. This means that many children have to move to other schools in other centres of residence or that the school that fits in with one's own identity or education is not nearby. In secondary education, too, the effects of the decline in the number of pupils are clearly beginning to emerge. We must continue to ensure that this is the commitment of the Christian Union to good education and freedom of choice close by. Soon we will discuss solutions in shrinking regions with the Secretary of State. However, from this point on, I would like to call on him to stick to the motion by Mr Voordewind, Mr Bishop and Mr Ypma, who has received support from a large majority in the Chamber, on the maintenance of the small school allowance, which gives the possibility of maintaining a supplement in the case of cooperation or merger and asks the school boards in shrinking areas to participate in regional consultations on a future-proof and high-quality education offer. That is a long sentence, but I think it was a very clear statement. I think that is the basis on which we will talk to the Secretary of State later. Maybe he can confirm that tomorrow. The decline in the number of pupils in the coming years will also lead to a lower budget for schools. However, we are facing a number of major challenges, as other colleagues have already mentioned. First of all, schools have lost more and more money to paying unemployment benefits to teachers. Between 2010 and 2015, contributions to the Participation Fund increased by 175 million euros. We also see that there will be a shortage of teachers in a number of years' time. The education agreement agreed to create 3,000 additional jobs for young teachers, for which 150 million were available in 2014. That money seems to have been used mainly for the Participation Fund. This does not create additional jobs, but, as I say, it does preserve important jobs. Still, we still need new young teachers. I would like to hear a response from the Secretary of State on this issue, which others have also addressed. A number of years ago, the Christian Union called for the budget for education to be frozen in the coming years, despite falling numbers of pupils. Is the cabinet still open to this suggestion? The proposal did not make it then, but we really do see the need to start again with each other. If we do not, we will reduce the budget in the years to come. As a result, many teachers will be fired again, when we need them, especially in the future. In short, how do we deal with this major issue? The governance agreement on primary education contains very nice agreements on the use of digital learning resources. If this also applies to schools in the outskirts that have to work with slow internet, I ask the rulers. 900,000 primary school students will have very poor access to the Internet in the coming years. Is it normal in 2015 that you cannot use the digi board properly, which is just the practice in a number of schools, that only one or two students can work on a PC at the same time or that the administration should stop sitting behind the computer at the moment what happens in a classroom? Those are real situations that are happening now, in 2015. The Christian Union has asked questions about this a number of times, in the spring and a few weeks ago. We can see that the Secretary of State and also Minister Kamp-Kamp-Kam-Kam-Kam-Kam-Kam-Kam-Kam-Kam-Kam-Kam-Kam-Kam-Kam-Kam-Kam-Kam-Kam-Kam-Kam-Kam-Kam-Kam-Kam-Kam-Kam-Kam-Kam-Kam-Kam-Kam-Kam-Kam-Kam-Kam-Kam. In the meantime, Internet providers and local authorities have already agreed to cooperate. That is also what the PO Council reports, and I believe it. With smart solutions, such as cooperation with companies in the off-site area, shouldn't this have to be solved? What does the Secretary of State do? Is he prepared to open up the investment fund under the governance agreement to plans for fast internet access? I come to the issue of appropriate education. We could devote the whole of the budget to this. I've been following this file for a long time, and I've been looking around the country. I see that there is hard work there to make suitable education possible, by teachers, by supervisors, but also by parents and administrators. They work hard every day for inclusive education and a fine learning environment for every child. I'd like to compliment them on that. However, there are also concerns. They have already been expressed by others. The Kinderombudsman has also joined with a rather critical report. The child isn't always at the center of attention. There is not enough customization for children. How come there's still so many kids at home? At the time, this was a major problem for the introduction of appropriate education. It still is. Isn't that what we were gonna do about it? How can special education schools have to fire so many people with expertise and even close doors? Hasn't the bureaucracy of governments and teachers just increased since schools have to consult in all kinds of partnerships and make difficult connections with the WMO and other schemes? I would like to hear the Secretary of State say a little more about how we are really going to deal with these issues. This is not just a financial issue. When it comes to finances, the Chamber has intervened and reversed its austerity, I say impeccably. That has even happened twice. Still, it's a problem. These negative settlements in the shrinking regions are also a problem. It's just really ticking through there. In certain areas, children simply cannot always be referred to special education when it is necessary. We also see that schools even cease to exist. That even happens to me in the backyard and also to Mrs Siderius. The Ambelt, a school for special education, simply ceases to exist. The parents are really desperate. How can that happen? I would like to hear from the Secretary of State. The Christian Union has also tabled motions I remember we did so together with the SP about students with a severe multiple disability. Mrs. Siderius asked about it as well. The Group A scheme is budgeted for 1,250 pupils, but it seems that there is now even a doubling of the number of applications, i.e. 2,500 applications. Will the amount per pupil be reduced or will that amount remain the same? That's what I'd like to know anyway. What about Group B and Group C? It's all a lot of jargon, but the people involved know exactly what it's about. For these groups, no additional arrangements have been made. Will the Secretary of State keep an eye on this group and, if necessary, will he arrange additional funding? I know that's very easy to ask, but there is a real problem here. I come to education and asylum seekers, and education for children of asylum seekers. Special things are happening in the country right now. People are working really hard on this. I myself visited the Dutch Team about three weeks ago, where a school is bordering on the reception of the hundreds of asylum seekers who are housed there. That is what we have had discussions about here. Beautiful things happen there, but there are also problems. The rules we have for education do not always apply to such circumstances. This is particularly true, for example, for regular counting dates. There is one added now, but that is not quite enough. Can we offer tailor-made solutions for this, I ask the responsible Secretary of State. And I ask again for an elected chamber, namely one of Mr Klaver, Mr Pechtold and myself. It says that there should also be a real budget for education. That motion was adopted by the General Political Reviews. By the way, I have read the letter from the Secretary of State on this matter. I think the heart's beating in the right place. Something has to be done. However, it would be nice if we knew how that would happen. I myself have seen in the budget that less money is needed for the resources that are lagging behind. We know what the system is like. If the money isn't used, it disappears. Is there any way to use that money for this? I'm just giving you this suggestion. If we did it this way, the money would stay in the field of education. That would be worth something. On the subject of green education, I have just had an interrupting debate with Mr Van Meenen of D66. I'm looking at the cabinet, but I'm also looking at the coalition parties. Because we know how it works. There's just a problem here. We got rid of that 2% last year because the coalition wanted to cooperate. In particular, the VVD was prepared to do so. Now, however, this austerity is still pushing through. It's working on those aocs. This is at the cost of funding per pupil. It is therefore out of line with the funding per pupil on the rocks. We can have a whole discussion about this and reports have been written on it. One says it's almost $1,000. The other says: it's only €56 or €57. There's just a problem here. The schools really don't mess around. I use that term just for a while if there's nothing going on. They just see a problem at the basic cost. We should be done with that now, because it comes back every year. I ask the rulers to solve that problem. I know that this comes back to the agricultural budget, because the problem is covered by EZ, but I think it is best to transfer this point to OCW. It is also advisable to consider how we can solve the financial problems in this area. I'm joining the loan system. Or is it called the cost system? What was the term of the creators of it again? I keep forgetting that term. Oh, yeah, college advance. I think that term is so far-fetched that I have to go far every time to remember her. The choice has been made, a choice that we would rather reverse today than tomorrow. That's probably not gonna happen just like that. But now I would like to be clear about how this money, which is being taken away from students, is being used for extra investments in quality, because that is really shady at the moment. We would like to clarify this point. Then we can say something back to those students who ask where that money went.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u29	Mr Duisenberg would like to ask you another question. I assume that Mr Slob has no objection to this. Otherwise, Mr Duisenberg can ask the question. But Mr Slob has no objection.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u30	Mr Slob has interrupted me on this subject before. I did my best to get the question straight, but it obviously didn't go well. Does he want to know from the minister in advance what she's going to spend the money on? Then The Hague determines what the money is spent on. Or does Mr Slob want to know, in my view, that is the approach taken by the Minister of Foreign Affairs by which it is ensured that the money is well spent, determined by the institutions and stakeholders?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u31	That's a very good question. I can use that question to clarify my position. I am not of the category that thinks that we should decide exactly what is happening in the institutions here in The Hague. That is a piece of freedom that must be given to the institutions, freedom that must of course be fulfilled under responsibility. If that does not happen, action must be taken, but that space must be created. But what has been agreed here is that the institutions must be clear about what they are going to do about additional investments in this quality. This must be transparent, student organisations must be involved and participation must say something about it. Mr Duisenberg even wants to bring in people from outside. At the moment, it is not clear at many institutions whether there is any extra money. After all, they must pre-finance activities which otherwise would be carried out under the guise of 'that is part of this'. We even hear sounds that, for example, a gymnasium or a new lecture hall has been opened somewhere. Yes, in a manner of speaking, that was already planned. It has been said here: there will be a lot of extra money, which, of course, is slowly increasing, that we will invest in quality. Even if you did not agree with that choice, the question is still justified where that extra money is and who has decided on it. In many ways, that is not clear at the moment. Maybe that's a run-up, but let's get on top of it from the beginning.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u32	Mr Slob and I are in complete agreement. Since Mr Slob also spoke about green education, which he warmly welcomes, I would like to ask him the following question. There is a great deal of cooperation with the agricultural sector, i.e. with industry and the region. Does Mr Slob therefore agree with me that this is also about external stakeholders?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u33	Sure. That is one of the reasons why we have been holding on for a very long time to just leave the money on the EZ budget. Then you're in that column and you can work well with Wageningen and everything around it. I have come to the conclusion that that is true in itself. But because it is on the budget, which has many limitations, there are financial problems. I am also convinced, supported by research on this point, that cooperation in the green chain can best continue if the aocs are treated in the same way as the rocks and on the education budget. Then we are done with the financial problem and we can just focus on what we can do in the Netherlands and what you have said so beautifully. It's an insanely good and beautiful sector. He's unique in the world. When our minister speaks somewhere, he calls Heineken, but also this sector. Those are real examples that you can come up with. Then it can't be that these kinds of problems are going to arise? We should be ashamed if we allow this situation to continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u34	Mr. Chairman. The education inspection concluded in its 2013-2014 report that our education system is becoming increasingly efficient, but also less flexible. This is due, for example, to additional and rigorous selection, the growth of single school advice and the increase in category bridge classes. The Education Council gives similar signals and explicitly warns about the position of pupils from lower socio-economic environments. International research among OECD countries has already been discussed a number of times today, and it would appear that the Netherlands is lonely at the top of countries in which the education system contributes to a division between people of different social backgrounds. I am sure you will appreciate that, but I find it extremely worrying. I would very much like to receive a response from the rulers to this investigation. With a one-sided focus on efficiency or an "economic approach" to education, you focus on the standard, the average or the greatest common denominator. That's what you focus your education system on, and that's fine. If a student fits seamlessly into the system, there's no dirt in the air. However, if there's something wrong with you or if you're just not covered by that greatest common denominator, then you have a serious problem. That process will continue. I would almost say: despite the signals and the commitment of Mrs Ypma, that continues. We select in the Netherlands at a young age and we are actually going to do so at an even younger age. We're already going to do that on the basis of tests in elementary school's seventh grade. Then you're 10 years old. At the same time, pressure is being exerted not to provide multiple guidance for secondary education and the number of broad bridge classes is decreasing further. Those two things are mutually reinforcing, of course. I would like to know from the Secretary of State whether it is true that schools in primary education and in secondary education in the Utrecht region have agreed to stop giving multiple advice. Does the Secretary of State agree with me that this is contrary to the spirit of the law? A choice that is made for you when you are 10 years old After all, you don't have so much to choose yet Once organized, you will be squeezed through one of our educational columns as efficiently as possible. Let me just say popular. Our once so accessible and transitive education system becomes actually more of a straitjacket. If you're judged a dime at age 10, you won't be a dime anymore. Am I too negative? Let me mention a few examples very quickly. Multiple school advice from primary education is in danger of falling out. The broad bridge classes disappear. In the HAVO, arbitrary additional admission requirements are laid down for pupils with a VMBO diploma, which should give them access to that training. Sometimes in secondary education there is almost a forced choice of school for pupils with an additional care question, because schools have made a hard agreement between themselves about who provides which care and which students take on. There are opaque practices in the MBO, where schools sometimes refuse pupils on unclear grounds. The additional admission requirements for the pabo, which the Chamber wanted, have had a dramatic effect on the number of registrations. It's not going well and it's not the way to do it. In order to be admitted to a master's programme in scientific education, students who have graduated from a certain HBO programme are asked to take an additional course. That course isn't in regular education. You can follow it, but that will cost you €7,000. A master's programme in Rotterdam says: we only hire you if you have a 7. The 7 thus becomes the new 6. Not to mention the binding study advice, the chanceless experiments with the binding study advice in the second year and the hard cut between the bachelor and master phase. It's becoming a hordewalk. The atmosphere, the culture in our educational system seems to gradually become one of schools and training courses which will decide for themselves which pupil they want to take on. This takes the place of the starting point that students, of course, if they are in possession of the right diploma, choose for themselves what training they are going to do. The fundamental question I ask the directors is: do they agree with me that the starting point is, remains and must be protected that pupils, children, individuals themselves choose what they are going to do and that it is not the training courses that choose which students they will adopt? If there are incentives, we believe that they exist throughout the education system, both financial and other incentives, which support that in reverse, I would ask the directors to make an effort to remove these incentives.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u35	The fact that all these schools in the continuous learning lines are going to set their own standards has everything to do with the school being punished for draining? That has everything to do with the fact that these schools have no idea who they are bringing in because GroenLinks and D66 no longer want to be tested, that there is selection in education, that there is discrimination in education by competences, by knowledge, by students' skills? Mr Grashoff mentioned the pabos, who were notorious for not being able to spell and calculate the teachers and masters. Then we're gonna do something about that, it's not okay again. What does Mr Grashoff propose? Let everyone go to the pabo and let the decay of education in those areas just go on? Is that his idea of education?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u36	I agree with Mr Beertema on one point: the way in which returns are paid in education contributes to this type of practice. We do have to get rid of that. The example of the pabo is interesting. That makes me think, and so does Mr Beertema. Simply setting admission requirements is not the solution. If we believe that students at a certain level have not learned something they should have learned, then this should be incorporated into the curriculum and should not be done with pluses, extra demands and extra tests. There should be no calculation test, but mathematics should be well incorporated into mathematics education, as suggested by the association of mathematics teachers. Then you don't need a math test. Nor did we come up with a language test, because we already had Dutch in secondary education. Then it was fine and adaptable. That is the way in which we have to deal with a system of education that has a great deal of value, but which we are just making a patchwork with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u37	I don't see the patchwork. I can only see that there were extremely urgent problems identified by industry, by all secondary education, by higher education. Those parties were faced with enormous problems in that continuous learning line. We said, "If we want to make a quick move, we have to start with the pabos." Mr Grashoff disagrees again. He's just saying, no, that's got to start somewhere else. If you want to make a quick improvement in quality, don't you have to be with those novice masters and girls? They have to be able to calculate and spell. Doesn't that spill over to the kids they have in those classes before that? That's the fastest way, isn't it? What does Mr Grashoff want?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u38	I think Mr Beertema agrees with me that we have not solved it. We have only raised an additional threshold and it has led to fewer students on the pabo. In a few years, we won't have any teachers and masters in the classroom at all. If the problem is that they need to learn to calculate better and that they need to be better in language, then we need to teach them that. We should not then raise thresholds and say: you must be able to do so, otherwise you will not be admitted. That's the point. That's another way to deal with this. I do not deny the problem, but try to take it as an example to deal with it in a different way. I'll come back to the big seventh grade. The number of school communities and broad bridge classes is falling year by year. Where originally there was some thought of a two-year bridge period, it was reduced to a year. More and more we find category communities and homogeneous bridge classes. That is a pity, because the wide junior class offers advantages and is partly also a form of compensation for the very early selection. In this way, this strikes the balance of the education system. Children in a broad secondary school make it easier to move to a higher level of education; research has been carried out on this. They also learn to be better with each other. It would also fit perfectly in the objective that is generally embraced, in my opinion also by the rulers, to see how to get to a customized diploma. If that's what you want, you're not good with that very early selection and pushing it into those columns. You then choose a model that does not fit the approach of the customized diploma. The single school advice is part of this. If you only give single school advice, what is easier to put the children in single bridge classes? Those two things are connected. I've already asked a question about it. Is the Secretary of State prepared to draw up an action plan to maintain, strengthen and stimulate the broad secondary class and the accompanying multiple advice? Would he like to look specifically at the possibilities of at least taking the perverse incentives out of funding and building up good incentives? I move on to another topic: the financing of primary education. Pupils are now falling, but slightly increasing numbers are expected from 2019. We are now talking about outflowing teachers and high costs of unemployment benefits, but we are going to run out of teachers again. I would like to ask the Secretary of State whether we should see the years 2016 to 2018 as a bridge and whether we should no longer pass on the falling numbers of pupils in the po into declining funding. Now we're cutting ourselves in. Can this system play a role in the way of windows? Mr Slob has already made a comment on this. Perhaps we can come up with a better system for that transitional period. The education of refugee children puts great pressure on schools. Everyone has the right to education. I would almost say that even Mr Beertema agreed with us on this point. It is very important that we invest on the basis of integration goals and opportunities for people. There have been statements about this, recently in the motion by Mr Klaver, Mr Slob and Mr Pechtold. The Secretary of State has then written a letter in which he elaborates on the subject. There is nothing wrong with that letter, but it does not answer the question of the money. Actually, there's no number in that letter. The Secretary of State does write that he cannot estimate the expected inflow, but that the estimated budget is sufficient. This seems to me to be a case of a calculation test for the Secretary of State, because of course this cannot be right. In the very short term, I would like to receive specific additional information on what is happening with this funding system. What additional amounts are there? What does the Secretary of State mean by customization? What criteria are used for this customization? What deadlines are additional amounts available? How do they relate to the weight control? Mr Van Meenen asked a question about this. Mr. Chairman. I am going a little over my speaking time now, but I take that for granted. I'll take care of this another way. The Secretary of State writes in his letter that asylum seekers often need more than a year of guidance. I would like to get a response to the question of how this is going to work in the funding structure. There is a great deal of uncertainty in the schools and even if the system is well organized, we can still draw the conclusion from the reactions of the field of education that uncertainty is currently frantic. I now move on to the position of the medical students. My colleague, Mr Ganzevoort, has already raised the question of the Commission's proposal in the First Chamber. He was already of the opinion, and I share this, that this is a serious issue. I am not saying this in order to raise the main issue of systems, but because this is a very special and exceptional position. It is the only three-year master's programme that is largely made up of academics. This means that people work in academic hospitals. Unfortunately, I have had the bad luck of having to increase the frequency of the academic hospital in Rotterdam over the last two years and it turned out that the direct tests are almost always carried out by residents. They're just free labour in hospitals. I ask the Minister to look again with her colleague from VWS at a form of internship fees. This does not directly affect the study proposal, because the problem already existed. However, I would like to add that it has not improved for this group with the study advance system. I can see Mr Van Dijk coming out of his chair. I agree that the matter has not become easier. A solution must be found for this. I find the Minister's letter really disappointing. Three quarters of a year after the problem has been announced a letter with "njet" in it cannot.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u39	I am certainly standing up from my chair, because Mr Grashoff is one of the authors of the damage. He shouldn't beat around the bush. GroenLinks was in favour of this notorious debt system, together with D66, the PvdA and the VVD. Now he's angry because medical students are being hit. His colleague in the First Chamber raised the matter. Fantastic! However, his colleague in the House of Representatives, his current group chairman, could have known this for a long time. And we have all raised it. So for Mr Grashoff, as for Mr Van Meenen, it is good that you are now aggressing, but we already knew it. Does Mr Grashoff recognize that or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u40	I acknowledge that for as long as Mr Ganzevoort has. He brought that up. This fits seamlessly in the line set by Mr Klaver. We must continue to look critically at this system. Where undesirable effects could occur, you should indeed dare to adjust. That is different from questioning an entire system. I am going to repeat something: I always find this discussion with the SP to be the most special. In the Dutch situation, it was the most debilitating system we could come up with, because with the basic grant there was a huge income transfer from lower to higher incomes. I never understood that the SP was unable to follow the idea of the advance system.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u41	This came out a little angry. But yes, that is because GroenLinks is now a bit concerned that the extremely neoliberal has defended the principle of profit, together with the VVD and the other two parties. That, in turn, disappoints me very much. You should never have gone along with that. Anyway, that was the big discussion. We're going to talk about medicine again. Mr Rog was right to ask: will we make this concrete and finance it out of that loan system that you were so in favour of because the damage came from it? Is that why you're here?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u42	Right now, I'm not ruling out forms of cover somehow. But it is not a question of an issue affecting the system. This has to be solved. As far as I am concerned, there is an important responsibility in the VWS corner. I'm not talking about internship fees for nothing. That's what we should be talking about. I can assure you that I would be happy to take a look at a motion from Mr Rog, but I think I would like to make a motion myself. Then we'll make this concrete. Now the appropriate education. I'll be brief, because I can see I'm really out of time right now. We support the principles of appropriate education, but this is becoming a serious problem. The critics aren't gentle. I can only say one thing in the direction of the Secretary of State: solve it quickly. Sitting at home is not acceptable. The current situation in mainstream education is not acceptable. The word "pgb" is compelling. Perhaps the Secretary of State should ask his colleague from VWS what that word means, but this way of implementing appropriate education risks becoming a pgb 2 for this Secretary of State. I wouldn't wish that on him. Pick this up, fix it and make something good out of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u43	This was taken from my heart. In my own contribution, I proposed the legal anchoring of the right to education, also as a building block to strengthen the position of parents and pupils in the context of appropriate education. How does the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance view that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u44	I fully agree with that. I equally agree that the right to education is the duty of training to arrange internships. We have already heard this in the interrupting debate with Mrs Jadnansing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u45	Mr. Chairman. I want to talk about four subjects. First of all, I would like to focus on the education system. Then I would like to comment on the provision of information by schools. Next, I am talking about educational disadvantages. Finally, I would like to say a few words about Europe. First, the education system. More room for new schools. That was the government's commitment in 1916. With a proposal to amend the Constitution, financial support for all kinds of education was constitutionally anchored. Whether this proposal met the social needs was not a question. The social discontent over the old system was great. The realization that it was high time to take away this fissure in the people was widely felt. The result was, in the impression of the SGP then and since then, quite successful. The Netherlands definitely did not receive state education and not state schools, but socially organised and socially anchored education. 100 years later, the government put the room for new schools back on the agenda. The government has announced that it will issue a bill in 2016. That sounds wonderful. The objective as such is fine with the SGP. However, the analysis and the impact are a great deal of concern. First of all, the need for the proposal does not seem to be widely and deeply felt. In her letter, the government writes something about hiding and changing circumstances. Is this sufficient and sufficient evidence that parents are in large numbers waiting for an adaptation of the education system? The problems mentioned often focus on a limited number of problematic situations. Fix that, I'd say. The SGP does not have the impression that the country is being torn apart by this issue. Why is there so little social movement about this far-reaching change? Why is this far-reaching proposal, a change in the education system, not being the subject of a social debate? It is a bit similar to the debate on the curriculum Education 2032. The SGP maintains the feeling that this is mainly an administrative project in which parents' needs have not yet been properly investigated. I'd like to hear a response from the regiment. The SGP also wonders whether the proposal is coming at the right time. Let's look at the country of education: big laws such as the appropriate education Act have been implemented, there are large decentralisations towards the municipalities that touch the educational field, there is a challenge to make shrinking more manageable, there is a legislative proposal on a future-proof education offering and today an initiative proposal on the redesign of education monitoring has been reviewed. All these developments have a major impact on parents' freedom of choice. Is it then justified to introduce a major change in the system in parallel with all these developments? Can we master the effects enough when there are so many things at once? As a government, do we not have ample control over the careful implementation of all kinds of changes under way? I refer to a point that several colleagues have already mentioned in detail, namely the tensions surrounding the introduction of appropriate education. How's that gonna work out? Shouldn't we put all the energy into that? The SGP is in favour of starting clear steps, such as lowering foundation standards, before starting with plans as direction-free plans. The government's proposal means that a large number of schools are threatened with abolition. These schools are already aware of that. It is the shadow effect of the announced plan. Aldermen in contact with schools sometimes already indicate that they assume that the school will be closed. Schools are thus already facing negative effects, while plans are far from being implemented and there is a great deal of uncertainty about their impact. How will the Secretary of State guarantee the position of these schools, so long as it is not clear when and how the plans will work? Furthermore, the SGP considers it important for maximum support to exclude the last schools from one direction as far as possible. Does the Secretary of State share that stake? These are schools which otherwise have to be closed after a number of years, while they often function to the full satisfaction of parents. It would be weird if the plans that parents are supposed to help were to stand in the way of parents' needs. The second point is the provision of information to the school. Before we start working on more freedom of choice, it is important that parents have good information about the choices that exist. The government's plan to get schools on the map is excellent. However, the SGP is afraid of confusion or proliferation of initiatives. We had in addition to existing information in the budget and the inspection, already Windows for Accountability/Schools on the map. The government then comes up with a new dashboard, which differs from the design of Windows for Accountability/Schools. How is this compatible with the ambition to develop more unambiguous information? Again, there is the question of whether we are not stacking too much resources on means, on measures. Because of this accumulation, there is no time and peace to implement the policy carefully. There is so much else to be done. We call for clear information development. Let us look at what is going on, and let us standardize it, for all I care. The first requirement of the SGP is not to provide more information. It is about what we do with the available information. In addition to increasing information, according to the SGP, the Action Plan lacks to reduce the administrative burden on schools. Can the Secretary of State guarantee I underline this word 'that the intended dashboard will not entail any additional administrative burden, accountability or whatever you want to call it, for the schools?' How are we going to ensure that schools have to supply information by one way rather than through multiple channels? Then I'm gonna get to the education deficits. More and more children of foreigners will enter Dutch schools in the near future. We just have to take that fact into account. It is right that attention should be paid to this from all sides. For a good education supply, the budget for educational disadvantages is of great importance. It is then strange that this budget is only decreasing, while the challenges for schools are not decreasing. The budget depends on the level of education of parents. A colleague pointed it out, too. However, the establishment of this level appears to be a major bottleneck. Schools run counter to the curious situation that children of parents from the Netherlands vmbo are more likely to receive additional funding than children of parents from developing countries. Why is a distinction made within vocational education in the Netherlands in terms of funding, but not in Poland? Why does a student who has been to school in Nigeria up to the age of 16 not pay for a school, while in the Netherlands they can? The SGP considers it unsatisfactory that the Secretary of State does not specifically address such questions from schools. When reference is made to the independence and expertise of implementing organisations, we can also count on solid support. Can the Government undertake to respond in writing to the problems of determining the level of education of parents? Will the government respond to the study of the Kohnstamm Institute of May of this year, which shows that the level of education of both parents and ethnicity should be added to the assessment? Finally, I come to Europe. Citizens living in Europe and working in the Netherlands can receive study funding for their children. Of course, that's fine when those children study in the Netherlands. This will support freedom of movement. The problem is that the European Court also wants these children to have the right to receive Dutch funding while studying in the country of origin, while life in Poland, for example, is much cheaper. That's the SGP too gritty. It is never meant to be like that in Europe. The Minister mentioned this in Europe; thank you for that. There was a lot of popularity. Of course, that is good, but what is going to happen in concrete terms? Will there also be a proposal to better regulate this and give Member States the opportunity to pursue policies which they are entitled to under their own nationality and sovereignty?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u46	Following Mr Bishop's speech, I would like to return to transparency and information. Before I ask my question, I fully agree with Mr Bishop that you should not get all kinds of different information flows. I think that is a very justified point. Does Mr Bishop agree with the point I made in my speech that you should be able to establish the most efficient relationship between the money that has been invested and the final results, especially in the case of additional intensifications for young teachers or extra teacher quality?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u47	I thank Mr Duisenberg for this enlightening question. I hope that the answer is also somewhat enlightening. When funds become available, such as the 150 million we were talking about, which is in fact linked to personnel policy, I would be in favour of it being included as the only obligation that the annual report reveals what happened to the amount that went to school in that context. That hardly means an additional burden of accountability, only the auditor gets a moment of control. This way you minimize the administrative pressure and give you a maximum of insight. If you can organize that kind of simple procedure, you should do it. Of course, you need to know what happens to the money when you pump in the 150 million now, or another time two hundred-and-so many million. I know what happens to it when I look around and when I'm on work visits in schools. Then I see that the money has indeed been used mainly to eliminate a lot of late maintenance. That's just what happened. It was stuck on all sides. Schools had to cut back year by year 1, 2 or 3 FTE. I give it to you to do, that really chops it up. A lot of that money has been used to prevent the cuts in staff. The amount has therefore been used for personnel policy, but this has not become apparent. With a small paragraph in an annual report you can make this clear. Then everyone understands that the money didn't evaporate, but was used for what it was meant to be. It has not been used for enlargement, because there was no such possibility, but for maintaining it. That way it can be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u48	Mr. Chairman. Normally, people could follow this debate at home via the Internet or by cable, if they pay for it. At the moment this is not the case because the transmitter is needed for a press conference. You can only use cable TV if you pay. 50PLUS very much wants people without thresholds and without payment to be able to follow the debates at home. You'll agree with me, won't you, Madam President? My question is therefore the following. Is the cabinet willing to put the transmitter in the standard transmitter package? My group would prefer to see it offered free of charge via Digitenne. I would like to receive a comment on this point with an explanation. 50PLUS is concerned about the education of young refugees who are subject to compulsory education. In particular, the strong growth of refugee flows presents major challenges. Although there is a support programme for teachers and schools, this does not exclude overloading the workplace. Half of teachers in primary education are already experiencing too high a workload. With this in mind, I would like to ask whether the Minister can tell us how many compulsory refugees can handle a regular school without jeopardising the strength of the teacher or the quality of the education and what effect the arrival of compulsory refugees has on class size. How is the relationship in groups measured between compulsory education refugees and pupils with a backpack or appropriate education? The budgetary impact of education for refugees subject to compulsory education is estimated at several millions. According to the minister, they are integrated into the OCW budget. 50PLUS would like to know which post these millions are from. The issue surrounding the Rembrandt paintings continues to concern 50PLUS. On 15 October, an article in the Volkskrant showed that it was not yet clear whether the Netherlands would acquire two or a whole painting. It has always been said that the two paintings would come as one piece of art in Dutch-French possession but there was still a lot of negotiation. And then it got quiet again. We would like to hear from the Minister about the current state of affairs. In addition, 50PLUS would like to know more about co-financing by individuals. The Minister of Finance has indicated that it would be reasonable for the Rijksmuseum to contribute to the purchase, if only with a symbolic amount. Is there any more clarity on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u49	Let's get to the point of order. I think there is a legislative consultation on Culture and we are here together to talk about Education and Science. I don't know if there's a direct relationship between them, and I don't mind listening to the beautiful story about the Rembrandt paintings again, but somehow it feels a little weird in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u50	I saw such a lovely arrangement. I heard Mr Pechtold argue that when they are in the Netherlands, schools go to all the museums in every capital city of each province to look at these beautiful works of art. So I did find it in place here. In the 55 to 65 age group, more than one in five Dutch people are not sufficiently literate to be self-employed in society. Among immigrants of the first generation, even one in three is low-lettered. For this purpose, the Cabinet has set up the action programme Tel along with Language. We very much welcome that. However, this programme is aimed at people aged between 16 and 65. So far, the Minister has not been sufficiently clear about what is happening to combat low-literacy among 65-plussers. I'd like to get a reaction to this. According to the Central Bureau of Statistics, 80% of the 65 to 75 year olds use the Internet. That is a wonderful percentage, one of the highest percentages in the European Union, but for one in five of these elderly people the Internet is far from their beds. However, they are not even expected to handle all their business with the government over the internet in the long term. Think, for example, of the recent news about the early disappearance of the blue envelope at the Tax Office. How does the Minister feel about that? Does the Minister intend to ensure that these older people do not fall apart? Then there's something else. 50PLUS would like to hear an opinion from the Minister on the transfer of the management of 31 monuments to the National Monument Organisation. One of these monuments is the fortress in Naarden. My 50PLUS colleague in Gooise Meren, which includes Naarden, proposed yesterday to bring the fortress, if it is disposed of by the Empire, under the administration of the municipality, because of the unique character of this monument. I also like to get a reaction to this. Finally, I come to our most important point. The cabinet regularly talks about the importance of education for adults. We are very much in agreement on this. The policy agenda for this budget sets out the fourth objective for the education of this cabinet period: integration into the labour market. As far as 50PLUS is concerned, this education budget is not sufficient. Of all the available educational funds, only a poor small proportion goes to adult education, while having and keeping access to the labour market is increasingly important for all, even at a later age. Greater attention should be paid to adult education due to the increasing age of the AOW and to unemployment, particularly long-term unemployment, which is unabated and disproportionate among over 50 people. Training and retraining is an essential tool for this group to still have a chance on the labour market. Adult education is also needed because of the fact that people in today's society do not work with one and the same boss for years, because they want to continue to develop themselves and because the needs of the labour market change. One of the possibilities is lifelong learning credit, which is intended to facilitate adult education. Why does an age limit apply? That age limit is 55 years in this case. A 55-year-old has to work for another 12 years. Isn't that enough reason to change that age limit? Why was this chosen? Isn't a 55-player worth the investment anymore? I thought it would be much more sensible to adjust this age limit. Now it seems like a missed opportunity. I would like to hear from the Minister whether she sees any possibilities for this. I am considering tabling a motion on this matter in the second term. Shortly and well, there is reason to make more budget available for adult education. I would like to receive a response from the Minister. Does it see any chance of achieving this in the short term? Does she also recognise the need for this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u51	Mr. Chairman. The Dutch education is to be proud of, as international figures show. For a tenth place in reading skills and an eighth place in physics, you certainly don't have to be ashamed of yourself internationally. We're part of the world's leading group. But how do we ensure that we stay with that global leading group? Until 1900 human knowledge doubled every century, after the Second World War, human knowledge doubled every 25 years, and by 2020, as predicted, human knowledge will double every 73 days. Every four years, the total amount of information in our world doubles. And what are the consequences of this, we have to ask ourselves. Two to three million jobs in the Dutch labour market will disappear due to technological developments. What kind of world will our children grow up in? How will Dutch education remain in line with an ever-changing labour market and the world? These are the most important questions we face in education. The changing world requires us to work on forward-looking education. DENK therefore welcomes the Platform Education initiative2032. DENK would like the initiative to be of a lasting nature. For example, the curriculum can be tested continuously according to the requirements of time. The fact that we belong to the global leading group is, of course, mainly the merit of all our teachers involved, but unfortunately we are still far from supporting these people enough. We have to learn to give our teachers air. Particular attention should be paid to the workload and the corresponding size of the classes in education. The classes are too large, according to students and teachers. 90% of teachers need smaller classes. We are clear in this: it must be the motto not to hack it up but to train it. Get rid of the school batteries! In many situations too large classes lead to lack of personal attention for pupils and too high a workload for teachers. DENK therefore wants to call on the cabinet to investigate when smaller classes should be and larger classes can be. The results then provide a measure for the possible introduction of a maximum class size in certain situations. Teachers need to get air again to breathe, not just in a figurative sense. Air quality in many schools in the Netherlands is still not in order. Air quality in schools matters. TNO showed that good ventilation results in 6% fewer errors in language tests and 23% less errors in calculation tests. Good air quality also leads to less illness among pupils. Good air in schools therefore leads to better performance and less absenteeism. Better performance prevents delays and less absenteeism saves us costs. Unfortunately, this potential is not yet fully exploited. 23% of primary schools complain about poor ventilation. Last month it turned out that the air quality of 78% of primary schools in Arnhem was below par. There are also problems in the area of temperature in classrooms. 70% of the premises in the Netherlands are too hot in summer and 40% are too cold in winter. What solutions do we propose? As far as we are concerned, the government must draw the wallet for this, as it did when buying Rembrandt's paintings. Initiatives to improve the indoor environment in schools from the past were a good start. However, there is much more work to be done. DENK will therefore table an amendment to make money available for educational schools. We encourage the use of creative solutions. For example, plant walls in classes could work well. A pilot in Haarlemmermeer shows that, too. One more point about citizenship in education. The Netherlands has the most beautiful Constitution in the world. As the seat of the International Court of Justice, the Netherlands has a tradition of promoting human rights. It is the task of education to convey these key principles properly. In this way, we train tolerant, resilient, involved and democratic citizens. DENK therefore welcomes the high level of attention paid to the formation of citizenship in education. That's what it takes. Unfortunately, the Netherlands is lagging behind internationally in this area. The increase in discrimination incidents makes it clear that the message of tolerance from Article 1 of our Constitution needs to be better conveyed. What are we proposing? That's three things. Firstly, schools should be encouraged to be better evaluated and more coherent. The Education Inspectorate noted that few schools evaluate the results of citizenship education. Similarly, the activities are not sufficiently coordinated and little planning is being carried out. Secondly, we want a more prominent place for human rights in schools in civic education. The knowledge of human rights in the Netherlands is inadequate. So make human rights a key goal in education and add it to the citizenship mission. Thirdly, think also of the impact that common education has on citizenship. Early separation of pupils by level affects citizenship competences. Longer learning together leads to better citizenship skills, according to research. To what extent does the Minister take this into account in the approach to citizenship education? Good foreign language intellect is important to our country. Knowledge of foreign languages contributes to a good economic climate. Unfortunately, we are seeing a bad trend in our country. Knowing and learning more languages is explained differently in different groups. By most people, learning and speaking a foreign language is seen as a development, as something entrepreneurial. You'll be a cosmopolitan helping the international economy. But in people with a migrant background, it is seen as a lack of integration. When learning and speaking a language of migrants you have to use the integration magnifying glass of Minister Asscher. That's the double size we so dislike at DENK. That is why, according to DENK, we must move away from this trend. Learning foreign languages can help to build an economic bridge between the Netherlands and countries of origin. Many countries of origin are also emerging economies. Is the Minister therefore prepared to facilitate education in more languages better, for example by encouraging subclasses between schools? Is the Minister prepared to add more languages than English, German and French to early foreign language education?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u52	I think you say it very cumbersomely, but you simply want to enter Turkish as a language. I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u53	Let me call that the short-sightedness of the PVV. I am talking not only about Turkish, but also about Chinese, Arabic and other languages, for example. Those countries are also emerging economies. I understand that you want to make the Netherlands an island, but the world is much bigger than just this country. It is good for the trade relations of the Netherlands with other countries that we and our students speak more languages in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u54	I understand that you simply want Arabic and Turkish, and Chinese for that very few Chinese pupil from the country of origin, because these are countries of origin. Isn't that what you said? Then I'm talking Arabic and Turkish. That's obvious.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u55	It is not just the children who come from the country of origin. It would be very good if Dutch students also learn Chinese, because China is an emerging economy. It would also be very good for Dutch students to learn languages other than English, German and French.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u56	I would like to respond to this. Mr Kuzu agrees with me, as far as trading partners are concerned, that mainly German and English are important. Mr Kuzu is very interested in social differences and social backwardness, but it has recently been established in a report by the Education Council that they are related to good literacy, precisely in the Dutch language, which causes this. So, Mr Kuzu, why not come up with a proposal to focus precisely on that rather than come up with a proposal to teach the Turkish language?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u57	You keep framing it. I would point out here that it is not just a question of the Turkish language but of several languages. Indeed, you have a point that Dutch is a key goal in education and an important language. As far as we are concerned, that is also the basis. If there are delays in this, I am the first to see that it needs to be helped. That is certainly the case. I am now talking about the heading 'foreign language teaching'. It is important that we are English powerful, that we are German powerful, that we are French powerful, but you know as well as I do that world relations are changing and that countries with which we trade are also changing. In that sense, it would be good if we were more powerful than just those languages. This includes Chinese, Turkish, Arabic and several languages. That has always been the strength of the Netherlands: we are an internationally oriented country, we are trading with many different countries in the world, and it is important that we are powerful in our languages and not just looking to the now, but also to the future, so that we may one day get more pandas from China. According to DENK, education must be a source of development for every Dutchman. Everyone, whatever their origin, social status, sexuality or disability, must feel supported by the fact that education in the Netherlands offers equal opportunities to all. But is it? Recent international research shows that characteristics of the Dutch system of secondary education, i.e. early selection, increase the differences in learning performance between children from different social environments. DENK has already pointed out to the Minister that pupils with a migration background may receive less advice than other pupils. They are paid based on their origins, and we find that unacceptable. I'll finish with the final point. DENK welcomes the creation of a compulsory teacher register for professional education. However, we would like to add a point to that. Trouw reported this year that two out of three teachers see Muslim discrimination in the classroom, and 60% of students who claim to be discriminated against at school indicate that this has been done by a teacher. It can't be. So make sure that actions of discrimination and racism by teachers are included in that register, so that teachers who discriminate can never, but never, ever again stand in front of a class. Education is the lifeblood of our society. Make sure everyone gets equal opportunities. Support our teachers and make our school resilient.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u58	Mr. Chairman. Dutch education is not doing well. The level is stagnating and that means decline. For example, Cito scores in primary education have been about the same for 20 years, while parents are on average much higher educated. That is a worrying development, said Professor Dronkers years ago. Children of increasingly educated parents have to perform better, but that is not what is happening. Could it be that the diplomas of the parents concerned have become less valuable, that the stamp has remained the same, but that the content of the education has deteriorated? It looks a lot like it. Not for nothing has there been a trickbox of lappers opened in recent years. I'll mention a math test for high school students, language tests for admission to HBO or university and an additional intake test for students at the pabo. Dutch education is not doing well. Malle leftist dreams to teach even less or to eliminate the differences between vmbo, havo and vwo as much as possible, are of course not going to help. Old GroenLinks foreman Paul Rosemöller, who is now chairman of the VO Council, is therefore entitled to do something else quickly as far as my group is concerned, just like all the other redundant managers in educational boards that nobody really needs in education. But not only the level is under pressure, also the curriculum, and that touches largely on another left-wing dream, the multicultural society. One in five history teachers in the Randstad can no longer discuss the Holocaust as a result of aggression by mainly Turkish and Moroccan students. In Almere there was an anti-Western intern in front of the class who called Amsterdam, Paris and London enemies of Islam and ISIS a Jewish conspiracy. Recently it appeared that a school book is in use on the vwo which states that Israel could only be founded by Jewish bankers blackmailing the British. It's all very worrying. Another multicultural problem is, of course, the recent asylum crisis. Education is also affected. The Minister states that the educational costs involved in this crisis amount to several million, but what is "some millions"? Is that 3 million, is it 17 million or is it 24 million? And for how many years are we going to see these costs? For how many students and for how many students, and at what cost? That's all unknown. As I said, Dutch education is not going well and I would like to get a response to the points raised. If we want to have high-quality and healthy education, and if we want to have Dutch universities in the top ten of the world, besides British and American universities, things have to change. We call for the privatisation of higher education. Cheers to strict selection at the gate at each institution in higher education. It is a question of quality, not quantity. Stop the possibility of endless rematches on the pabo. Give our kids teachers of level again. Stand up for the western values that have made our culture great, and carry them out, especially in education. Stop with all those silly managers who don't teach, but talk to talk and focus on knowledge transfer again. Invest in new learning tools and take education with you in the 21st century. In short, let the teacher be a teacher again, give the student the chance to make the most of himself and do not condemn the future of the Netherlands to the collective middle class.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u59	The cabinet will respond tomorrow. Then the second term of the Chamber will follow. I shall suspend the sitting until 4 p.m. Then there will be an additional arrangement of work.
