ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u1	Mr. Chairman. The situation in Macedonia, a country in the middle of the Balkans, is precarious. Two weeks ago, a violent eruption occurred in Kumanovo, the cause of which is still unknown. Since this weekend, there have been massive demonstrations by supporters and opponents of the government. In the Russian media there is already a reference to a new Maidan, in which according to the media the West, the US, is blamed for the instability in the country. Today, Macedonian Prime Minister Groeievski and his political opponent, the opposition leader Zayev, are in the European Parliament. At least that's a positive sign. There's talk. The only solution must be a political one. This is also what the government writes in the report on the written consultation of the General Affairs Council (RAZ): the most important thing is to prevent the situation from escalating and to find a solution to the political crisis. The Netherlands has a special position in relation to Macedonia. There is a long-term cooperation with Macedonia in the areas of development cooperation and political reform. In 2001, in the previous crisis, three Dutch people were involved in the search for a solution. That's why I'm asking the following questions. Firstly, what is the appreciation of the government of the situation and the political crisis? This is not just about the political quarrel at the moment, but also, above all, about the root causes of it, about the inflamed mistrust. Secondly, how can the Netherlands, with its knowledge of the country and its special relationship with Macedonia, also in view of the situation in 2001, use the existing link between the Netherlands and Macedonia to play a role in resolving the crisis? Thirdly, what steps are being taken from Brussels? Does the government have an eye on the talks between the four political leaders? I am also thinking of the Albanian minority parties. Those talks took place yesterday under the leadership of the EU and US ambassadors, but the first results were not so positive.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u2	Mr. Chairman. I thank Mrs Maij for drawing attention to the precarious situation in Macedonia. Like Mrs Maij, the cabinet is very concerned about developments. This concern has only deepened recently, because we are seeing a trend in which independent justice and freedom of the media are reduced and in which the relations between government and opposition are further hardened. We also see that the government is using practices that an orderly government should not use, such as corruption, selective justice and electoral fraud. That all contributes to increasing the concerns we have. The April Council has already expressed serious concerns about this situation. Mr Koenders also drew attention to the situation in Macedonia at the Council meeting in Brussels yesterday. He asked for an in-depth debate on Macedonia in the Council. Yesterday, therefore, this was a brief discussion. The role of the Netherlands, stemming from the special relationship we have with Macedonia, is therefore mainly focused on the management and monitoring of the situation. The European Parliament and the Commission are now playing an intermediate role. We would like to leave that role with them; we would not want to cross it. It is clear, however, that we are following this with perhaps more than ordinary interest. I would like to say to Mrs Maij that in yesterday's Council report we will make an explicit reference to the way in which this has been discussed and the question of how others, for example the High Representative, appreciate the situation in the Council.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u3	I would like to thank the Minister for the answer and for setting it up in the Council. Macedonia is, of course, also a candidate country for membership of the European Union. It is good to have an in-depth debate on this. Macedonia was not always the worry child of the Balkans. There was even a time when Macedonia was one of the best girls in the class in reforms, political and economic reforms, and offering perspective to the population, curbing endemic corruption and organised crime. A relationship was established with the Albanian minority, but the perspective slowly flows away. The prospect of European membership is not getting any closer either. The responsibility for this lies, of course, with the government of Macedonia, but political leaders can also use a little support in the back of the European Union. It is therefore important to know what action the Commission is going to take. What commitment does the Netherlands require from the Commission in the coming period to ensure that Macedonia is better supported by the European Union? I also ask this because, apart from these problems with the Albanian minority, there is also a somewhat difficult relationship with neighbouring countries. It is not helpful that the name "Macedonia' or "Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia' and the broken history of the country and of the region is also claimed by neighbouring countries, Greece and Bulgaria. In the corridors I have heard an official representative of these countries say that Macedonia does not really exist as a country and is an artificial construction. Of course, Macedonia must come to terms with its neighbours and agree on its name and its shared history, but this must never prevent the necessary reforms for economic, political and social restructuring in the country. This is part of the accession negotiations. They do matter and they need to get a flywheel much more now. I ask the Minister how Greece and Bulgaria are addressed to that role. Follow-up steps to start negotiations with Macedonia on accession are constantly being blocked and this lacks prospects. The Macedonian Government can thus become a victim and the much-needed reforms are completely stalled. That is a great risk in a region with such a temperamental history.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u4	I would like to respond briefly on three points. What does the Netherlands want the European Commission to do? We support Commissioner Hahn's call, specifically aimed at the events in Kumanovo, to encourage the authorities and community leaders to cooperate. He has also called for this to be done, and we naturally support this call for an objective and transparent examination of the events there. Escalation must be prevented, as Mrs Maij said. Mr President, I can hardly hear myself...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u5	I ask everyone in the room and in the corridors to produce a little less noise.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u6	Thank you very much, Mr President. I come to the second point. It focuses not only on what we want the Commission to do in response to the events in Kumanovo, but also on what we want it to do wider. We would urge Commissioner Hahn to play an active supporting role in bringing the parties together. It is clear that a political solution must be found. It is also clear that this should not remain for too long. We believe that this is important for Macedonia's domestic political stability, but of course we also attach importance to the democratic and constitutional principles which make this a transition to the third and final point of reference also play a role in the accession process. Whatever happens further in the relationship with neighbouring countries, we would like to say to Macedonia that it is primarily important that the reforms continue because Macedonia itself should want to do so, because it is going to bring the country and its citizens a great deal of good. As far as we are concerned, the issue of names must not be allowed to go down, although we can see that this is complicated. The UN has agreed a process to speak with different parties. That is a bit of a procession of Echternach, but there is a process for it. That is what we want to strongly support. But again, we call on Macedonia to want the necessary reforms for intrinsic reasons.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u7	Thank you for your answers and for coming to the Chamber. That concludes Question Time.
