ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u1	I call Mr Ganzevoort.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u2	Mr. Chairman. Today we are completing a legislative process that has taken a long time and which has already been mentioned very much. And that's exactly why it's good to go back to the core. Why would we want this change? For my group it starts with our electoral programme, because it sets the benchmarks for our political weighting. After that I have a number of questions, because it is not only about the principles but also about the practicalisation. The starting point for my group is the great importance of education. In our programme, therefore, we are making a great deal of money for this. Not just keep the zero line, but invest positively in education. This is of great importance not only for individuals but also for society as a whole. Education is the best investment for a thriving society, whether economically, culturally or socially. That is why we are unhappy with the current policy of under-investment in education. In addition, we have been unhappy with the current study funding for much longer. It's often ignored, but we already have a loan system. Only part of the loan can now be converted into a gift if you graduate on time. That's very nice, but it also costs a lot of money. Money that ends up not only with students from families where it is badly needed, but also with students from families where it may be less needed. Money that we can no longer use for the desired investment in the quality of education. In addition, the accessibility of the current system is also inadequate and the reimbursement system is far from ideal. That is why I do not understand those who are so nostalgic about the current funding of studies. In any case, we are not satisfied with expensive and moderately effective study funding. We opt for a better system in which we focus on quality improvement and support where it is needed. For this reason, however, there has been a lot of discussion in our party; everyone knows that, because we are an open book, we have finally opted for a loan system in our programme, but in a truly social way. We want the card to be retained because it is essential for accessibility, for traineeships, for wider development, and so on. We want a strong supplementary grant because we need to support students from economically weaker families. We want the money to really be invested in education because that's what it all started to be. And we want to lower the threshold of tuition fees, at least in the initial period. With this commitment last year, we made it clear that the plan at that time was not good enough. With that same commitment, we're looking at the bill today. And then I notice that the bill is very close to what we want. Not a hundred percent, of course, but to a significant extent. The OV card is retained and extended to mbo'ers. That's very important. The additional grant for home-living students will be increased. Unfortunately, the additional grant for residents goes down, at least as far as the net effect is concerned, because the basic grant falls away. This means that we need to keep a close eye on what the effect is. The money is invested entirely in improving the quality of education. I would like to talk about the precise implementation of this, but I would like to draw particular attention to the flow of vmbo-mbo-hbo-wo. In these groups too, there are major risks of dropout. We must, above all, invest in this. The tuition fees are unfortunately not reduced, except for pre-masters, but on the other hand, they can also be awarded a tuition fee at a later age with the same favourable conditions. This is how we make lifelong learning more possible. And that's not all. It is also particularly important to make the reimbursement system more flexible. Graduates may take longer to pay back, but shorter may also be allowed. In any case, the reimbursement is limited to 4% of income, compared with 12% now, and on average to 1%. We only have to pay back from the minimum wage, whereas that limit is now at welfare level. Thus, not only in the start-up phase but also in the reimbursement phase, graduates are protected with a lower income. There is therefore a legislative proposal which can be well defended in general terms. It makes it possible to invest substantially in education and thus really improve quality, without requiring additional funding.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u3	One question. I appreciate that Mr Ganzevoort starts with the principles of his party's party programme. He has asked more often about the principles of other parties in the past period. That is always good, because that offers the opportunity to explain. Looking at GroenLinks' party programme, I note that Mr Ganzevoort is skipping one issue. There is a need for equal opportunities across the board. This is a theme also mentioned in the GroenLinks party programme when it comes to higher education. I could mention a number of things about the start of the course if students start to make debts. Does Mr. Ganzevoort consider it to be an equal opportunity witness as one student at the end of the study, because he has wealthy parents, has no loan debt, while other students do? What does that have to do with equal opportunities?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u4	I see that Mr Kuiper has also read Piketty's book. We find a lot of inspiration in that. It would indeed be very good if we were to do much more about this inequality. However, this is not an isolated problem. When you come from a family with richer parents you have advantages on all fronts. That goes for here, too. We can't take that away unless we go to a system where everyone earns exactly the same amount. But I do not think Mr Kuiper will want that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u5	No, I don't have that in mind either. I ask Mr Ganzevoort about his own principles and whether he really sees them in the system. There are also points he certainly doesn't see back. I'm talking about cutting tuition fees. Higher education is expensive in the Netherlands. The first policy response following the report of the Veerman Committee was: discounts on universities, so cost increases on that side. I believe that together we have been involved in the protest around the Hofvijver against the longest study fine. What happened to Mr Ganzevoort supporting this bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u6	Something has happened to me in this regard, namely that a legislative proposal has been submitted which basically complies with the framework conditions as we have described. Then there is the issue of inequality. This inequality is embedded in the entire structure of our society. We can't take it away. We can ensure that those who come from economically vulnerable families, low-income families, receive support to study through the supplementary scholarship. We can do that. We cannot ensure that people from poorer families receive money from their parents. That's a fact. That's how society works.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u7	It's not just society. It's in the system of this law. When Mr Ganzevoort took office as a Member of Parliament, he mentioned in a debate the example that children from socio-economically weak environments have a greater fear of borrowing when it comes to raising tuition fees for excellent education. That fear of borrowing occurs in certain environments. You can say that this inequality is in society, but the current system offers the opportunity to overcome it. However, we are now making it more difficult for these students to access the university.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u8	Mr Kuiper is now making a wonderful mistake of thinking. For the lowest income groups, the least changes. For this purpose, the supplementary grant is increased. For the higher income groups the most changes. That's where the basic grant falls out. It is a mistake to say that the problem there is increasing. I'll add something to that. The limit on reimbursement to 4%, in many cases on average at 1%, is a very important point for these groups.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u9	Young people from socio-economically weaker environments can indeed benefit from the supplementary grant, but they also need to borrow. They too are building up a debt that can be very substantial. They have much less support in their environment in this respect. My point is that the current system, with the basic grant, gives them a much better entrance into higher education than the system currently in existence. This bill does something about equal opportunities.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u10	In any case, I note that students living at home in the lowest income classes are making net progress. In that sense, the story doesn't quite go on. Apparently, there is a difference of opinion between Mr Kuiper and me. That's okay, too. Again, I do not understand the nostalgia for the existing system. In that system, a lot of unfocused money goes in all directions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u11	Mr Ganzevoort considers this, I think, to be a social loan system. He stressed that arrangements had been made for low incomes. Perhaps, however, Mr Ganzevoort can give some thought to the question of how social it is that you are almost becoming a calculating student. After all, you can hardly make your choice on the basis of where your talents lie, so that you can turn your hobby into a job, the best you can do. This system gives the perverse incentive to get as high a salary as possible as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u12	I'm trying to understand, Mr. Chairman, but I don't see these perverse stimuli.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u13	Mrs Gerkens, could you explain that to me?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u14	This point has already been raised by previous speakers. It's always said that if you go to college, you're gonna make a lot of money after that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u15	You didn't hear me say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u16	No, I did not hear you say that, but I hear other speakers say that. It is also one of the underlying thoughts with which the loan system has been put together. The idea is that if you have received higher education, then you will earn more and that is why we can ask for a higher contribution from you. However, this is very different, depending on the profession you choose. This is, if you haven't said so, a social gap in the bill, isn't it? How do you intend to deal with that, Mr. Ganzevoort?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u17	I'm working on a theological education. Even if this training gives you a pretty big chance of finding a job after that, that's not a job you make a lot of money with. So I know it up close. One of my sons is doing an HBO course for drama teacher. He's not gonna get rich on that. In other words, I understand this theme very well. Nor do I believe that higher education is meant to get the best job as soon as possible. That is exactly why this proposal regulates that when you earn less than the minimum wage, you don't pay back anything and that you pay back up to 4% of your income on average. That is exactly what makes it possible to follow a study that may not make you rich.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u18	Finally, Mrs Gerkens.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u19	That is true, of course, but it is important that the signal is given: you borrow, you take an advance on your future, you will earn well later and then you can easily pay off. Mr Ganzevoort is not going to tell me that when people do not have to pay off, debt does not press on on their shoulders anywhere. As mentioned earlier, a responsible student also becomes a responsible participant in society. It's a debt you have, and it doesn't make you happier.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u20	Mrs Gerkens thinks in terms of investment. I don't think in such terms; I think in terms of education, education, coming into your place and following the study that suits your own development. With current student funding, you have to pay back 12% of your income. That's a millstone around your neck. That's gonna be 4% at the most. Moreover, it is arranged that the debt has less influence on the conclusion of a mortgage. In many ways it has been ensured that the law does not have the consequences that Mrs Gerkens thinks she has. That is why we think it is a social plan. Mr. Chairman. I will continue with my speech. Access to higher education remains well organized, particularly through the IPR card, it is not just about money, but also about facilities such as the supplementary grant and the flexible reimbursement system. In this way, the government continues to pay the lion's share of higher education. The student pays a small part of this through the tuition fees. In addition, costs are mainly related to living. Students can make use of a favourable loan for this purpose. Students from an economically weaker group get extra support. Can you do better? Of course we can do better, but my group believes that this proposal is in any case better than the current situation. Are we sure how it's gonna work out? This question has also been asked a number of times. Of course we don't know for sure, but if you list all the investigations, and we did, recently at the hearing, there's plenty of reason to make a decision with confidence. Have all the critical questions been answered? No. Much, and I thank the Minister and her officials for the great work they have done. I would also like to thank the student associations and everyone else involved for their valuable and sharp finger on the wrist throughout the process. But I, too, have a few critical questions and I'd like to go over them now. My first block of questions concerns quality agreements. When we talk about quality and quality improvement, we have to talk about what "quality" means. I'd like to challenge the Minister to that. She may not need that, because she is already going into some of the answers she has given earlier. But maybe she can take one more step. In my group's view, over the past decade, we have been increasingly moving through a translation of the open concept of "quality" into rigid ideas about return. For example, we are talking about the number of diplomas delivered, flow rates, 'nominal is normal', the hard cut, compensatory tests, and so on. All things that have little to do, or at least have to do, with the quality of education. That is why, by definition, they lead to risks to quality, because institutions are forced to live up to these ideas and, of course, do so in as simple a way as possible. Some call it "mostribble," others call it "poor implementation." But the result is the same: a transformation of the university or university into a production line in which knowledge carriers are produced. We really need to go another way. I hope the Minister agrees with my group. We need to think fundamentally about educational quality. I then define the concept of "quality" quite generally as the degree to which a service or good meets the intrinsic values to which it is directed. A good restaurant can be judged by the extent to which you can enjoy good and therefore healthy food. A good First Chamber can be judged by the extent to which it reviews substantive, constitutional and legally correct legislation. What about education? The intrinsic value in education, in my opinion, is that it facilitates people to learn and grow, so that they can effectively and authentically take their place in society. This means that it is about acquiring skills, developing one's own talents and training for citizenship. Especially for the LSVb, let me add: bildung, so. The extent to which an educational institution, including in higher education, achieves this value, is the measure of quality. The big question we need to ask is how and to what extent a university or college helps students acquire skills, develop authentic talents and become citizens. Then, in our view, some of the performance agreements and return measures are completely counterproductive. Of course, there is not much wrong with focusing on better information, guidance and possible selection. But what exactly is the problem when people do more, do something else in between, make a mistake once and, in the meantime, are mostly engaged in developing and developing? In other words, we do not find only thinking in hard figures that interesting. This discussion on quality and on where exactly we want to go is essential for the implementation of quality agreements. I therefore ask the Minister whether she wants to take the lead in this and talk to the institutions, students and other stakeholders about how this quality improvement can look best. My group is not in favour of leaving this entirely to the institutions and regulating it through internal democracy. My group is also not in favour of putting it all in place centrally from The Hague, so that we can get together here this afternoon or at any other time about what it should look like. And we certainly don't want it to be a ticking list. We believe that the quality should be defined in terms of content, from the field. This clear, substantive vision must be organised in such a way that the institutions feel challenged not to meet the requirements on paper but to actually change, for example by giving more priority to education and not just to publishing. Other examples include: the best scientists for the lecture halls, challenging education with space for individual challenges, better flow of vmbo-mbo-hbo-wo, etc. There's a lot to name. I'm not asking the Minister to tell us now what those criteria are. However, I would ask how it is going to ensure that the additional investment is directed in terms of content and how students get an important voice in that process, not only through participation in the institution, but also in the development of the quality criteria. In this context, I would also ask the Minister to clarify the observation that various institutions in their new budget do not allow the promised pre-financing and quality investment to return. Can the government give an idea of what is going on with the promises made by the institutions? How much or how little of this pre-financing is going to end up? Is there an image of how it is used and how the quality improvement is achieved for current students? In other words, to what extent do the institutions keep their promises? My second block of questions concerns groups of students who may be disproportionately affected by the changes in the system. Various groups have been identified in recent months and this has also been discussed in the Lower House and in the written procedure. I would like to mention a few which we may still have to look at. In part, I can join colleagues. First of all, there are students with disabilities. It is true that, in addition to a number of measures that remain, they also receive an additional €1,200 in the form of a waiver, but that is less than before. On the question of whether that is sufficient to meet them, the Minister replies that there is also the profiling fund. The same is true of the question of the situation of students doing a management year: existing measures and the profiling fund. In the Lower House this led to a question about the level of the profiling fund and to an approved motion by Mr Mohandis in which the Minister was asked to discuss with the institutions and students a directive on the level of benefits. That is valuable, but my question would be a little more fundamental. When the government, driven by the political debate as we do, refers students to the profiling fund to provide a solution in these situations, it creates a responsibility for the institution. Then there should also be a right for the student to be defined. We cannot agree here that the profiling fund should be the safety net and that the university or college will say to a student: sorry, we had other plans with that profiling fund. Of course, this is also about the possibility of profiling you as an institution, but together we have made a safety net of that profiling fund. With this bill, the safety net is just a little more important. This means that we cannot ignore the question of whether the guidelines for the profiling fund are sufficiently sharp and whether they are so compelling that a student can derive a right from them. I would like to begin by asking whether the Minister is prepared to discuss with the institutions and students what minimum criteria the institution's policy on the profiling fund should meet. I'm just saying. Is it sensible and possible to agree on a minimum size, of course in relation to the size of the institution? Is there sufficient legal certainty and equality when granting a benefit from the profiling fund or is it a tombola? Do students with disabilities, for example, receive adequate support from the profiling fund? Is the fee-free regime still adequate or should student directors under the new regime be given the opportunity to make use of the study advance? My question is therefore very specific. If the profiling fund is the safety net for special situations, will the Minister talk to the institutions and student associations to see whether that safety net is adequate by nature and size, or whether there are too many loopholes in which people fall through and whether the institutions are using the safety nets properly? And if that discussion gives rise to that, will the Minister consider giving more direction to the profiling funds?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u21	As a co-legislator, I miss the question of whether we want to make the treatment of students with disabilities dependent on a profiling fund. Shouldn't we take our own responsibility here and incorporate into the law that we meet these people? However, we can ask the Minister to ensure that the institutions... The institutions have limited resources and have to do a lot of things with that profiling fund. Is this category not the least suited to make it dependent on a profiling fund?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u22	That's a good question. Of course, we do not want this group to fall between the shore and the ship on the left or right. We can arrange this in different ways. I am not asking the Minister at the moment to change the system. I understand that's a big step. I'll ask her if, if we refer people to the profiling fund to fix something in that way, that's also a way to fix it. She wants to give more direction to that process. Of course, more needs to be done from the profiling fund, but the institutions have said they are prepared to invest amounts in that whole improvement. Part of it can be used in this way for the profiling fund. Of course, from the extra money that goes to the institutions because of the improvement of quality, you can also use a part to repair what still needs to be repaired. The first is whether the Minister would like to examine with the institutions and with the student associations whether there is anything to be repaired and, if so, how best to do so. Then all this will come on the table by itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u23	The question remains whether we consider it desirable for students with disabilities in Tilburg to be treated differently than students with disabilities in Amsterdam, to name but a few. I think the central legislator should take care of this and not leave it to the institutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u24	Legislation or otherwise, but agreements. I agree; that is why I am asking for it. There can't be any legal inequality. That is why I ask what the minimum criteria would be to which, for example, a student with a disability would derive a right. I would also like to mention two other groups of students here. First of all, these are the students in a multi-annual master's programme. A great deal has already been exchanged on this subject. The government does not want to make a separate arrangement for this group for two main reasons: the longer duration of study often leads to higher incomes and these students are often intrinsically highly motivated and will not be for that reason. The latter is a bit cynical of my group's argument. We understand the argument that we need to be more concerned when people forego a particular study on financial grounds, but this is somewhat cynical. In the first, it is said that the argument of higher incomes does not apply to multiannual research masters. To be honest, I also have my doubts about the educational masters, given the salaries in education. Given my background, it won't be surprising that I'm also pointing to students who have a philosophical ministry education. These are often three-year-old masters and they usually do not have an extra high income. They do have an intrinsically strong motivation, but you don't eat sandwiches of that. The Minister has promised an impact monitoring. I would like to ask her not only to measure the quantitative influx effects of the research masters, the educational masters and the philosophical ministry's programmes, and to see if there are enough students going in that direction, but above all to monitor qualitatively what the new regulations are creating for these groups of students and whether problems are going to arise there. The other group is that of medical students who not only follow a multi-annual master's programme, but also have such a heavy burden during their studies that earning extra money is actually impossible. Now, on average, I am not so worried about the income after the study, but there is gradually every reason to examine the working conditions of their societies. Is it still at this time that people work so long and so hard as part of a learning process without a more or less adequate remuneration? Is it real of them to expect them to borrow all that? Does this adjustment of study funding not give rise to an examination of whether and, if so, how these societies can be better brought into line with contemporary standards of study, work and remuneration? I'd like to get a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u25	Mr.Ganzevoort is right to be concerned about the position of students with a three-year master's degree. The example of a three-year-old preacher master also floated in my mind. It follows a three-year bachelor's degree, so it's six-year courses to reach that point. I wonder whether Mr Ganzevoort also has a proposal for this, as does the proposal for the medical practitioners who are running. What do you think he wants?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u26	In my heart, I would, of course, like us to be able to arrange better compensation for these multi-annual masters, but we always consider whether this outweighs the additional costs involved. That is why I ask the Minister first of all for a substantive and qualitative impact monitoring: what is actually happening to this group of students? If we find that there is going to be a problematic situation for students, then we must do something with it. I do not have a measure in advance to compensate for this, other than to say: it would be nice if we were to bring money there separately, but that would be at the expense of other things. That's a tricky trade-off.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u27	Mr Ganzevoort says there should be money. In what form could this be possible for a third master year: a certain allowance or an allowance? What's he thinking?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u28	I don't have a very concrete picture. I would ask you to clarify it a little more: what are the qualitative effects of this? It is just a step too far for me to start negotiating now in what form we need to fix something there, also in view of the role of this Chamber. I'd like to return the ball to the minister first. I come here to ask the last question, which concerns students' rights more generally. The legal position of the student and of the student, because the problem is wider....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The position of the consumer or the patient is much stronger than that of the student. Of course, there is something in the WHW, but does it also give students enforceable rights or does it only provide the Minister with grounds for a possible funding sanction? In an article, educational lawyer Joke Sperling writes that "it can be inferred from two judgments of the Amsterdam Court that the standards of education laws do not work in the relationship between the competent authority of the school and third parties." Those third parties may "not derive any rights from the provisions of the education laws because they create only legal obligations between the school and the government." So that puts the student in a vulnerable position. Of course, there are a lot of things in the education and examination regulations, but they can be adapted every year. I know from experience that students' rights are not always paramount. The ISO bottlenecks note also mentions a series of issues and experiences, in which students ultimately depended on the good will of the institution, but had no legal basis to stand up. I would just like to mention the problems of compulsory internships without internships and the delays that this may cause. But there's more. In the meantime, the rules have been tightened up and students need to perform more and faster. But then it becomes essential to better define their legal position. I take an example from health care. In addition to all kinds of other laws that say something about the patient's position, there is also the Medical Treatment Agreement Act which lays down the rights and duties of the patient. That is why I ask the Minister to consult with institutions, student associations and experts in the field of education law, which is complex enough to examine whether it is desirable and/or possible to better define the legal status of students and fill gaps in them. It is likely to find that this applies not only to higher education but also to all sectors. If she sees reason for doing so, I hope that she will take this in its entirety with, for example, a law on the education agreement. Today, however, I am not asking the Minister to take this step, but to start this research, to identify whether it is necessary to ensure the legal status of students more fully. In conclusion, I would ask the Minister to say a little more about the introduction and, in particular, about the technical implementation at DUO. How does the government prevent DUO from having ICT out of order at the last minute and students from getting hurt, as is the case at the moment with the pgb holders because the SVB cannot cope with the changes? What is the Minister doing to ensure that the law is passed as from tomorrow morning, to inform students and students clearly, completely and correctly about what they do and what they cannot count on and thus to remove the misunderstandings, the conflicting information, the fog curtains and the fears that opponents of the bill are so eager to spread? We await the Government's response with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u29	In the last block, Mr Ganzevoort mentioned four issues, namely the legal status, the internships, DUO and information. These are quite a few things, but in the rest of his text Mr Ganzevoort has mentioned a number of points which he finds worrying and which should be improved. Wouldn't it be better to take some time to solve the problems rather than go through with this bill so panting?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u30	It would be very good to take more time for that. I fully agree with Mrs Gerkens. That is why I do not propose that the Minister should come up with a solution before this evening's vote, but that she should take the time to work on this with the institutions, the students and the whole field.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u31	I think there are a number of pressing problems. Failure to have an internship site means an additional year of study funding or loan. That means there will be more costs. If DUO doesn't get things in order, the system's gonna blow up one of these months. There are also problems in information, because a lot of students and students do not know what they are up to. We need to work carefully on this and then we cannot start this legislative proposal as early as 1 September 2015.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u32	We'll ask the minister if she thinks it's possible. For the time being, I have no reason to believe that it wouldn't be possible. Nor is it the case that people do not know what is going to happen; these proposals have been discussed for a long time. The last proposal is so much better than last year's that it can only be easy. So much has already been said about it. We would like to hear about the technical introduction, because we have not asked a question about it for nothing. The debate on education law is more fundamental and needs to be worked out. We're not gonna take care of that today. It would also be a pity if we put all the necessary investments in higher education on the long track, because we do not have sufficient guarantees yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u33	Finally, Mrs. Gerkens?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u34	I can only conclude that Mr Ganzevoort's speech, with all its concerns, is actually a little tip to give to the Minister and that he is in any case in favour of this loan system.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u35	It is no surprise that we are in favour of this version of the loan system. Mrs Gerkens cannot really be surprised about that. At the same time, we don't just sign by the cross. If we are going this way, we must also take the next steps. We are indeed talking to this Minister about how we can take these next steps.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u36	After a number of critical notes, Mr Ganzevoort indicated at the end of his speech that the opponents of this law tell ghost and Indian stories. He says this law is very close to what he wants. Can he clearly say that he is in favour of this law?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u37	I didn't mention ghosts and Indians. Those are categories I consider high. If Mr Koffeman asks if we are in favour of this bill, the answer is yes. It's been obvious for a long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u38	This means that GroenLinks is in favour of the burden of debt on students and that young people with parents in lower income categories from the moment they start training but have to get used to having debts, while according to previous statements by Mr Ganzevoort they are afraid of borrowing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u39	I note that I have not done my job properly, because Mr Koffeman obviously did not understand much of what I said. Of course, that doesn't help a teacher like me! Best teacher of the year I won't be. What we are going for is to make it possible to study. That means that those who do not necessarily need a grant can get a loan. The group that does need a scholarship gets an extra support from the supplementary scholarship. We keep the OV-card and we ensure a smooth refund, so it is not as much a millstone as the present 12%. We bring it back to 4% and on average to 1%. So we are creating an extraordinary social arrangement so that they can go to college.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u40	We have to note that study funding is the biggest debt mountain in this country after mortgage debts. Surely it cannot be true that you say that you are helping the students to make studying easier if you make it more serious for a number of categories than is already the case? Why do these students experience this so differently from the GroenLinks group?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u41	Some students do experience that differently. However, there are also students who do not experience this very differently. There's a lot of discussion about it. I understand that, too, because all kinds of nightmares, fog curtains and fear stories are spreading. If you explain the story correctly, a lot of students say they don't want to. I don't understand. There are also students who don't think it is so unrealistic to stop using collective resources for living if you really want to invest in education. We want fundamentally more money for the quality of education. Those who are the most vulnerable and could fall out of it, and who we do not want to see fall out, we give a little support in the back. We are also doing this with a very flexible way of paying back. That is the balance to be struck and we are here today with a positive intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u42	Mr. Chairman. I shall begin with the common points of the government and my group. There's got to be more money in education. Quality needs to be improved and money is simply needed, not only in HBO or wo, but also in primary, continuing and secondary vocational education. We fully support this objective of the cabinet. This can also be done partly by cutting down on the management layers. We also agree with the cabinet that the ability to study should not depend on the parent's income. Everyone must be able to develop their talents, regardless of whether their parents have a high or low income. We also warmly welcome this objective of the cabinet. Next comes the question of how we achieve these goals. Let us first consider how we have done it in the past and what the results were. Study funding has been subject to many changes over the last two hundred years. This was partly due to the prevailing political climate and its ideologies. In six months it will be two hundred years since the first form of study funding was introduced. At that time, the government felt it was good to train an elite of young, Dutch-minded people, who were less wealthy, but talented. The grants were distributed by the government, there were 70 per year. The aim was also to forge the Dutch and Belgian peoples into a nation. Not that there were no scholarships. For centuries, there have been various fairs, such as an opaque system, which is made up of provincial governments, charities and churches. The grant contributed approximately one third of the costs. A loan system will be introduced in 1924. Even then, there is the fear that students will drop out. That is why there will be a scholarship for socially desirable studies. In practice, the fairs are mainly used for religious training. After the Second World War, there is a need for technically trained people. They want to make studying attractive and re-introduce a scholarship next to the loan system. The idea also arises that when you are born for a dime, you can certainly become a quarter. The stock exchange is first linked to income and performance, but it is quickly abandoned and it becomes possible to get a scholarship for all lower incomes. In 1986, the basic grant will be presented. All students will receive 600 guilders, with the possibility of an additional grant and a loan. This is not considered fair by all students. After all, students with wealthy parents receive as much money as students with less well-off parents. That was a reason for me to participate in the protests. I was getting better when I didn't need it, but a lot of people went backwards, who needed it. It became chaos, by the way. The systems were not calculated on the introduction of the law that was chased through within a year. Soon you knew as a student: "Do not move, do not change your phone number, because then you have a chance that your scholarship will be cancelled." In 1991, it appears that the system is unsustainable. Cutbacks are the result. In the following years, the tempo fair would be introduced, which was not very successful. Further cuts led to the performance fair, which meant that you had to graduate within ten years and also the time you were entitled to a scholarship was further shortened, as was the travel right with the O/V year card. The tuition fees got higher, the scholarship became less and and passerby was also drastically reduced on the salaries of teachers. By way of illustration, my first year of teaching I had a job of 50% and had to apply for additional assistance. With an HBO degree. The education was empty. The decay began. The 1980s and 1990s were the years of rigorous austerity, something that then Minister Deetman now says he thought the border had been reached. I quote: "When I stopped as a minister in 1989, I warned that the border might have been reached. In the meantime, I think I know that for sure. You cannot invest in research or in buildings and reduce the budget at the same time. The problem is that cuts do not become visible immediately, but only in the long term." As has already been said, the career of student funding shows how the political climate was and is. Two hundred years ago, the goal was to strengthen the nation and achieve upward mobility. After the war, it was about encouraging young people to study in order to provide the economy with well-educated people. At the end of the 1980s the basic grant came, which raised a lot of resistance because the principle that less well-off families receive more money than well-off families was released. In short, the rich got richer and the poor had to borrow. Moreover, one of the arguments of the introduction was that it would make the student more independent of the parents, one of the things the minister and various parties now say is not the responsibility of the government. It's possible. That's how I got to the current loan system. Again, you see a reflection of the political climate. My VVD colleague Bruijn's argument is repeatedly: "Here is the budget of the Dutch State, when the scholarship must continue, say where it has to go." Boarding in the Netherlands has become the management of the state housekeeping booklet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u43	You are talking about making students independent, facilitating entering rooms and the like. Do you think that this only applies to students or that it is also important for working young people who go to work after VMBO and who have to live on their 18th minimum youth wage and who cannot stay in rooms?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u44	I note that Mr Ganzevoort did not listen to my speech very well either. All I did was sketch history, including the argument then used and the argument now used. Mr Ganzevoort did not hear me say that is my opinion or that of my group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u45	That is why I am so curious about Mrs Gerkens' opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u46	What I hear in your speech and in those of other parties is that it is always said: the government should not provide the student with the livelihood. But I wonder if that statement can be substantiated by facts and figures, because students provide for a large part of their own livelihood by working and by contributions from parents. In addition, there is a difference between home and home living. For me, the most important point is that students and students can choose the training which is best suited to them. That can sometimes mean you have to live on the other side of the country, because that's where that school is you want to go. If that means that we have the man or woman in the best place, then the government can contribute to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u47	Finally, Mr Ganzevoort, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u48	We share principles and vision. Not to focus on numbers and commas, but to focus on principles, I ask why we apply this to students and why not to working young people, while the first have a much greater perspective than the latter. Why don't we help them live on our own? I'm trying to clarify the arguments you're using.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u49	Mr Ganzevoort is confusing a number of things. On the one hand, we do not want to help the student to live independently. We enable the student to take the course he or she wants to take. It is not intended that the government will pay for an education around the corner, in which the students concerned can simply stay at home. On the other hand, there is already inequality in the way we approach young people. I am talking not only about working young people, but also about the large group of young people who set up businesses, who use venture capital and run risks. This group is in no way supported by the government. So there is this inequality, and it is not right. Several studies have been carried out to show that the loan version is not so bad. There's been a scam with numbers and spinning has been done. What strikes me most is that we are going to make a radical change in the system, without really knowing the facts. The the impression is that it's all not that bad. On the basis of what the CPB thinks and expects and accepts and believes, the fallout will not be so great and, well, those who fail, were already not so motivated. It's assumed. It's believed. Expected. It is difficult to calculate what the effects of the loan system will really be on young students. There is no real comparative evidence and therefore the investigation can only be based on assumptions. It would be so fancy to explicitly name it that way. But still, is there really no comparison? 1924 is indeed not 2015, but when I hear the students from the secondary school today asking if money should also be borrowed for an HBO study, I am concerned. The next generation of students has certainly not had time to foresee this. Wouldn't it have been better to develop a system that gives all talents a chance? Of course Mr. Bruijn has a point. We cannot spend unbridled money on everything in this country if not enough money comes in. And that entry of money has been quite difficult since the economic crisis. All hands must be on deck to get the Netherlands back on a top position and to be resilient with their own qualities. We share the view that this strength must come from good education and that more investment must therefore be made after years of austerity. That is what all parties agree with today. I see that as a gain, because in order for this country to be strong, or if you want it to be stronger, we will have to invest in creative knowledge. This requires a different way of looking at education. There's a lot going on there that we need to blossom. Although, the word "we" no longer applies here. Unless one has children in MBO, in vo or in po, students will now have to pay for the quality impulse in education, while lack of it has been caused by politics.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u50	Do I understand that Mrs Gerkens is moving away from the SP election programme, in which 800 million is being cut back on education?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u51	I'm very glad you asked me that question. If we cut 1 billion in the election programme, you will have the correct figures, and we will invest another 1 billion in it. We cut 1 billion on the management layer. There's about 20 billion a year going to the staff. 8% of the staff is management. We're cutting down about 5% on that, so we're cutting down 5% on the management layer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u52	However, according to Keuzes in Map of the Central Planning Bureau, this results in a net savings of 800 million. With this the SP is only surpassed by the PVV. The net effect on economic growth is also the lowest in the SP, apart from that of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u53	That's right. That is because the CPB is taking it from us from the lump sum, as I said to Mr Bruijn. The CPB does not agree with our specification to do it only on the management layer. If you take it away from the lumpsum, it does affect the entire education. By the way, we are investing in our budget for 2015, which has been calculated by the CPB, net 450 million in education. None of the parties do that to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u54	Well, I'm gonna take it a little bit wider. Mrs Gerkens and I agree on the points she has just mentioned. But that leads to Mrs Gerkens being concerned that we take boards as just looking at the state's housekeeping booklet. That's where we walk very far apart. Because I think you're gonna be in big trouble if you don't pay close attention to that housekeeping book. Mrs Gerkens has just said, fortunately, that she does not distance herself from the SP election programme. First of all, what is proposed in the election programme means that we continue to borrow 6 billion a year. Over the next twenty years, that will be 120 billion, I would like to say to the students present in the public gallery. That's the money Mrs. Gerkens wants to keep borrowing. That is the fault of the students. Secondly, in the short term, what is proposed will lead to a loss of 25,000 jobs in health care and, in the long term, to a structural loss of 280,000 jobs. That's 3.75%. If you do that, you're not just gonna collapse that generation into a problem, but you're gonna saddle it with a towering sovereign debt. For example, they will have to pay more and more attention to the State's household booklet in order to get out of trouble at all. That's where our visions are really radically different. I also find it irresponsible that the SP is serious about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u55	I don't think we're having any General Financial Reviews here. I'd like to have a discussion with you about...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u56	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u57	Let me finish, Mr Bruijn. I would like to discuss how our electoral programme is to be passed on. The CPB makes some assumptions that you and I know is a way of turning the buttons. Let me put the question back to you. We're not talking about cutting back on education, are we? Surely there will not be a gap in the 2015 budget if this lending system does not go through?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u58	I take Mrs Gerkens' words seriously. She just said that she was worried that these days governing is only about keeping the housekeeping book up to date.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u59	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u60	Then I'll look at the alternative she's offering. Fortunately, she has just confirmed herself that she does not distance herself from her own election programme. I'll see how she solves that, where we don't have to think about the housekeeping. My party says we never have to think about it again if we don't spend more money than we come in. It's very simple. But Mrs Gerkens' party says, no, we're gonna make a 6 billion hole exist, we're gonna fire 280,000 people, and we're gonna fire 25,000 people right now in the care sector. I don't see how the SP is taking this country further away from concerns about the state's household book than we already have. In fact, we do not have macroeconomic considerations here, but Mrs Gerkens has just taken up this issue herself.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u61	The way in which various parties deal with public debt is diverse. Let's be clear about that. The VVD wants to pay off the government debt much faster than we do. This has far greater consequences for society. We make different choices. By the way, Mr Bruijn does a bit of cherrypicking in our election programme, but I agree with him: we do believe that this can be done at a somewhat slower pace, especially at a time of economic crisis. What I mean by 'only looking at the State's housekeeping booklet' is that we do indeed make the choice to do that repayment more time-consumingly, because otherwise it will have dramatic effects on our society, and Mr Bruijn chooses to get the finances in order as quickly as possible. If there are chips in those heels, Mr Bruijn says that this is part of it. That is his political choice, but not ours. That's the difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u62	Very briefly, Mr Bruijn.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u63	All the figures show that Mrs Gerkens is really wrong. I hope the students will look very closely when they vote again. One thing is clear: we are indeed opting for different solutions. I agree with Mrs Gerkens.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u64	Time will tell. The idea behind it is that the student invests in his or her own future and that you can pay for it. In addition, it is said that an HBO or WO student is going to earn much better than the lower educated, so that he can do his part. In that case, I would ask the Minister, could one have opted for a small tax increase with the higher paid? It is a curious argument that, if you are likely to make more money, you will have to take an advance with a loan. Tax on labour could also have prevented the perverse incentive to choose a profession after the study with which you as an individual will earn a lot of money as soon as possible. In my view, knowledge is not an exclusive asset. That which is created, researched or discovered in education must benefit the community. Because the whole community benefits from this general increase in knowledge, as well as the individual, because more knowledge means more strength, it is only logical that the community pays for it. By the way, my party chooses to cut down on the management layer. By not providing a basic grant, the government is indeed saving money. This money can then be invested in higher education. The student pays for this quality impulse. It seems to be a logical argument. However, there are quite a few problems with the implementation of this simple reasoning. To begin with, the students will pay the tuition fees and the individual study costs themselves from 1 September. They're going to pay for the quality impulse. On 1 September, however, there is no improvement in quality. The money will then be released slowly and how much it is and how it will be spent is still unknown. The implementation of the loan system will bring more money to education in its entirety in 2018 at the earliest. Until then, higher education itself must invest in quality.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u65	What are students going to pay for education?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u66	A small part of it. Of course, the government still pays for a large part of the education. I agree with Mr Ganzevoort.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u67	What they are going to pay is what they are paying now, namely tuition. Most of the education costs are paid by the government. It stays that way and gets bigger. It is going to invest in it and pay less to the livelihood. That's the difference. The image that students are going to pay more for the quality of education is a really weird idea. They pay the tuition. That's all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u68	The study funding expires. That is what they are being cut short on. They can borrow that money now. Like I said, that money isn't just used for living. There are more costs to a study than just the tuition fees. This means that it is left to the budget of the colleges and the universities themselves. We can already see that this is not happening, but that there are even cuts. This means that in the coming years students will pay for a quality improvement that will at best only come after them. For this, the student will receive a voucher of €2,000 to pay for further training. That voucher is valid for five to ten years. That sounds like a nice gesture, but the student would rather have a quality improvement now than five or ten years from now. Whether this improvement will come in 2018, how much improvement it will be and on what level, these are preconditions that are not yet fixed. This cabinet asks the student to invest in himself, while the student does not know exactly what that investment is worth. I would now like to make a few comments on the accessibility of education. First of all, I would ask the Minister to indicate how this bill relates to the International Convention on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights signed by the Netherlands, and in particular Article 13 (2) (c) thereof.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u69	I would like to receive Mrs Gerkens' own assessment of the relationship between the legislative proposal and the treaty, in particular on the obligation of effort and the obligation to achieve results.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u70	I've seen the research that was commissioned by OCW. There are some things you should mention when there is a deterioration in the current situation. The economic crisis may be a reason for a temporary decline, but this is not temporary. Accessibility must continue to be guaranteed, and I am taking it out of my head for a moment and there must have been consultation with those involved. We could get a comment from the committee on this, because it seems that all these conditions are not properly met. The investigation wasn't very rosy about this. Not necessarily negative either, but I wouldn't be either if you looked at such a legal treaty. There are quite a few hooks and eyes on it. We might be in trouble for this. Not only do I believe that, but a number of lawyers see this as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u71	I am very interested, with Mr Engels, to hear the Minister's assessment of this. I would like to point out that Article 13 talks about a commitment to higher education. The result obligation applies only to free primary education. In higher education there is an effort obligation, together with the pre-condition of Article 2 on the financial possibilities.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u72	That's right. At the same time, we also agree that the situation will need to be settled. This means that there should be no deterioration unless, as I have just said, the economic crisis requires us to do so and then it could be temporary. The question is whether or not this is a deterioration. According to the report, there are some points which can be considered as deterioration.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u73	Now for the final question, Mr President. How do the 800 million savings made by the SP in education relate to this treaty?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u74	Then we'll get the same thing again. Mrs. Sent didn't listen to me very well. We do not cut 800 million, no, we cut 1 billion, which we also invest in education. As I said, in our counter-budget, we are investing net 450 million in education this year, which no other party is mimicking. I can keep repeating it. Perhaps Mrs Sent will be able to write it down for once, so that she does not have to interfere with me all the time, and that is what we have left behind. Like Mr Bruijn, I refer to the OECD report entitled 'Trends in Income Inequality and its Impact on Economic Growth'. The OECD concludes that rising income inequality results in a decline in economic growth. The main reason is that people from the lower income class are less able to invest in their education. It establishes a direct link between education and income inequality. I am aware of Mr Bruijn's argument on this. In replying to written questions, the government states that the loan conditions for students are becoming much more favourable and that this improves accessibility for all students.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u75	I took the report with me for a while. It would be amazing if the report said that levelling would create jobs. This isn't there. It says, "... many of the negative mechanisms (...) are associated with inequality at the bottom end of the distribution." These are countries where there is absolute poverty. Because of social unrest and the lack of use of human resources, you must involve that poor low by investing in education and jobs. The Netherlands, with a gini coefficient of 0.27, is not one of those countries. The report also states: The positive effects are existing at the top end of the income distribution. There are more jobs to be achieved by de-levelling. That's what the OECD report says. To conclude now that the OECD report says that levelling creates jobs, I have serious objections. It's not in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u76	I don't think that's what's being said either. The report states that rising income inequality results in the decline in economic growth; more jobs are, of course, a different story. This is about economic growth. The OECD reports on many countries. Mr Bruijn talks about unstable countries where people have very low incomes. We all know them. It would be good to invest in that. If that class were to receive better education, then of course you will also get more economic growth. I think that's as ready as a whistle. The more education, the more prosperity.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u77	Those are all generalities that are true. That's right, and that's what it says here. That is even true in the Netherlands. However, it does not say that income inequality inhibits economic growth. According to the OECD report, this is only true in countries where there is too much distance between the middle groups and the lower layer. The Netherlands is not one of them. It says here: "The positive mechanisms (...) are more likely to depend on the degree of inequality in the top of the income distribution." The greater the differences, the more jobs there will be. The more ladder there is, the higher we can climb. The partymate of Mrs Gerkens from the House of Representatives understands this very well. I have a pair of Harry van Bommel from July 2013 in which he takes the measure of the Labour Party, which is going to level. He paraphrases that party should be called the Party of Unemployment. At least this partymate understands that levelling costs jobs and I am pleased about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u78	It's pretty easy to interrupt with a 2013 tweet of which I don't even know the context. I will return to the OECD report in a moment. I shall read to Mr Bruijn the phrase where it stands. We must also ensure that we do not have a growing deficit. I am waiting for Mr Bruijn to get his attention again. We are threatening to get that growing gap if there is to be a loan version among the low social classes. This does not have to be the case only in very low social classes. I am concerned with Mr Essers about the middle class, who is not getting the compensation she should have. I would like to say that it is a strange argument that the loan conditions for students are becoming much more favourable and that this improves access for all students. A large part of the students who didn't need to borrow in the past have to do this now. Of course, this affects the accessibility of education. The Minister also recognizes this. We all know that it is going to happen, and that this will mean that the education of certain young people will no longer be accessible. CPB research shows that students are not going to make a better choice of study through the loan system. I dare even say that more students are going to make a strategic choice instead of choosing a study that suits their talents. My son asked me if the loan system applies to HBO and wo. It is true for HBO and wo, but with HBO or an alpha study wo you are cheaper out. Education is there to allow talents to flourish, to make a person come to his or her right and to increase the knowledge of society. Education isn't there to think out what you're gonna get the most money from or with which you're gonna have the biggest debt. If you choose, to give just two examples, for a course as a HBO nurse or as a wo-teacher, you deviate from the beautiful average picture of what you're going to earn after your education. And we really need these people. Does this cabinet really want to say to the upcoming group of students: choose a profession you're going to make a good living with? I am now discussing the bottlenecks found in the bill. The problem is that there are problems. The coming students, the young people who graduate this year, like their parents, are suddenly confronted with a loan system. A loan system the Minister says parents will contribute more to their child's study. In the further reply, however, the Minister withdraws a little from this statement. In this, the Minister states that we do not really know what is going to happen through the loan system. The Minister implies that parents might work more hours to pay for their child's studies. In any case, according to the Minister, there is no effect on consumer spending. On the one hand, it says that the loan system does not constitute a threshold, because parents will contribute more. On the other hand, she does not know whether parents are going to do this. I don't think that's a strong defense. This minister knows you can only spend a euro once, doesn't he? Since the law passed, I've had distressed e-mails from several parents, because they don't want to burden their children with high student debt. They have had no opportunity to spare for this. I come to the current students. In her reply, the Minister referred to "hypothetic cases." I understand that she wishes to put it that way, because the hypothetical cases are poignant, but at the same time they cannot be repaired anymore. The minister is in a hurry, so she assumes averages. I read a few passages from the many emails I received from students. I'm gonna limit myself to three of them. First, Frouke de Wijs. She is "a hypothetical student," sophomore sociology at Radboud University in Nijmegen. "Of course I know, like all other students, that there is a great chance that from next academic year onwards the basic grant will be a thing of the past. I was just getting used to that idea, when I suddenly heard a while ago that current bachelor students in a possibly fourth bachelor year do not receive a scholarship anymore. After high school, I studied international development studies for a year. Pretty soon I knew this wasn't the right study for me, but I decided to finish the year. I closed that with laude, too. Just to be sure, I had checked whether I would get a three-year scholarship after that year and that was the case, DUO assured me. If I'd known about that rule then, I'd have quit way earlier. This affects me because it affects my parents. My parents don't have it wide, but from the moment I was born, they've put aside money every month to save for my studies. Never buy my parents new clothes for themselves or do luxury things. But they did save the tuition and the books for my entire study. There is a savings account, from the basic scholarship I can pay my room in Nijmegen and my supplementary scholarship I use to live on. That's how their kids would get debt-free from college, was the idea. Until Minister Bussemaker changed the plans and suddenly the picture looks a lot less rosy. This feels unfair. Unfair to myself, but above all unfair to my parents." Wybrand van der Meulen is also such a "hypothetical case": third-year student of law and vice-president of the University Council in Groningen. "When I moved to Groningen three years ago, I had a clear plan in mind: to achieve my bachelor's degree in four years with a year of administration in the third year. So I could develop myself outside of my studies and still in a reasonable period of time get my studies. I was assured that I would receive a basic grant for four years. I wouldn't be a long-term student who would cost society a lot of money, but I would take everything out of college. If the study advance is implemented, my basic scholarship will go away. Where at the beginning of my academic year I was entitled to a basic grant for two more years, I have to do it now, five months later, with only half. Without being able to influence my study time anymore." A final example, of Ruud Hudepohl's daughter. "The plans for the abolition of student funding and the introduction of a student loan system create an unfair situation. The long-student fine should not be introduced because it would mean that the rules of the game would be changed during the game. With the current plans, it's no different. My daughter decided last year, during her bachelor period, to extend it by one year to increase her knowledge and skills through a study abroad. This penalises motivated, hard-working students!" In short, the regulation is still raging on all sides. For example, students with a disability are declining, but there is also inequality between alpha and beta students. This latter group has much less opportunities to earn in addition to study and internship and has more multi-annual masters. There is no exception here either; we are talking about a large group. How are we going to prevent this student from having a student debt of €40,000? And how do we prevent students from abandoning that beta study, especially when we need beta students so badly? Another concern my group has is implementation at DUO. The Minister says DUO can comply with the implementation of this loan system, but here too it has its downside. Many tasks DUO cannot yet perform. DUO indicates that it is at the expense of the introduction of PVA and that this will involve more costs. I think the reaction of DUO is clear and realistic. They actually say, "Yes, you can, but it costs a lot." How much that will cost is still unclear. The Minister comes with a proposal to the Spring Note. But if we have already said yes to this bill, the ICT suppliers are rubbing their hands. Whatever it takes, it's gonna have to be done. That's gonna cost you. How much, no one knows. My group does not think it is right to issue this uncovered cheque. I'm gonna come up with the real uncovered check. What will this system ultimately cost the government? In Britain, things are going south. They receive much less money from the repayments than they thought and, as they themselves say, 'a big black hole' threatens the budgets. This also jeopardises the funding of universities there. They're calling for even more tuition fees. How does the Minister intend to prevent this happening in the Netherlands? I'm here to borrow myself. The minister's gonna make a nice story out of it. It's not just a loan. No, it's a social loan. Furthermore: low interest rates, long repayment periods and only pay off 120% of the minimum wage. It almost sounds too good to be true. The question is therefore what the risk is of this financial product. The Minister takes the view that, because of its social nature, it does not need to ask for a financial package leaflet. That's right. You don't have to, but you can. The law allows the Minister to designate products for this purpose. How big a risk is that, anyway? What's the interest rate gonna be in three years, five years or ten years? What happens if the system goes through financial gaps in the government budget? Who's gonna catch that hole? The graduate student? There is no certainty or guarantee whatsoever for the student who enters into the contract. The government, as we see today, can simply change the rules of the game. My package leaflet says that the financial risk of this product is high for both parties. Because the student is to borrow from now on, he gets more say in the way the money is spent. But the institutions are not ready to give that student what he needs. For example, there are still studies in which you can only do a deer exam once a year, and a lot of studies for which you can't get an internship. Beyond his debt, that student gets a year's study delay and now another year's study debt. The Minister will now point out the rights of the student, but during the hearings we have also heard that this right is very difficult to achieve. You often lose another year, apart from the costs. I'll conclude with a few conclusions. Education is, in the eyes of the SP Group, a right and a collective good. Yes, we support the Minister's policy of investing in education so that quality can go up. And no, studying should not depend on the parents' income. In part, however, this is the case. The low incomes are covered, the high certainly, but in the middle group a group is created that needs to borrow. That will certainly not be financially self-evident for everyone. We ask very young people, at the age of 16 or 17, to make a decision for the next thirty years of their lives, when, given their age, they are not allowed to take a loan anywhere else. They can't drive yet, they can't drink alcohol and they can't smoke yet, but borrowing that much money for 30 years is no problem. There is no doubt that the system provides a loan version, even if the figures differ as to how large the aversion will be. The scheme is being rushed. All of a sudden, the current students need to borrow. The participation, the rights of the student are still far from being properly regulated. The scheme is based on averages and insufficient account has been taken of the students outside. There is an inequality between the alpha and beta students. The loan is now so-called social, but it is subject to the political climate and therefore offers no guarantee for the future. The financial risks of the ICT pathway at DUO are unknown and the proposal has delaying effects on the implementation of PVA. The ICT pathway has a high level of risk and many of the measures needed can only be incorporated into the system years later. Financial risks are also high for the government. It could make a huge gap in the budget if the calculations of the pay-off did not come to fruition. That wouldn't be so strange either, given the fact that the bill is based to a large extent on assumptions: few hard figures and few facts. Next, the proposal is contrary to the treaties in which we agreed to make education, including higher education, free of charge in the coming years. Accessibility is being reduced and increasing inaccessibility is leading to declining economic growth. The SP fraction is against a loan system. The loan system contained in this bill does not reduce our objections but strengthens them. It is based on unfounded assumptions and is surrounded by many uncertainties, bottlenecks and looming errors. It shows, in short, the characteristics of a hasty introduction. On this basis alone, we ask the Minister to withdraw the bill or at least postpone it for at least a year.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u79	Mr. Chairman. In 2010 the important report Differentiating was published in three copies by the Veerman Committee. The Veerman Commission showed that the Netherlands is sinking on the international lists of investments in higher education. The influx of students is still failing, although it has improved considerably over the decades. This applies in particular to students from socio-economically weaker and immigrant environments. We are not achieving targets, such as the 50% Lisbon target, which has already been abandoned, when it comes to increasing the share of higher educated people. The WRR also underlines in its publication Towards a learning economy the importance of increasing the number of higher educated. Worldwide, this is being used. In India, China and Indonesia, participation in higher education is increasing dramatically. In China, 8 million students graduate from universities and colleges every year. In Europe and the United States, too, numbers are still rising. In a globalising knowledge-based economy, competition is conducted with higher educated people. It is therefore of permanent importance to focus on increasing participation in higher education. Not only is quantitative growth important, but the quality of higher education also requires an impetus. The Netherlands is a subtopper in this respect. The quality is not bad overall, but average. Rightly now we are focusing on excellence, differentiation, better and small-scale education, internationalisation and stronger challenge of talented students. Raising our higher education costs money. The Netherlands spends a smaller percentage of GDP on education than, for example, the Scandinavian countries and the United States. Anyone who wants to be among the frontrunners must want to make investments in order to do so. Those investments are left behind. In fact, that has not changed since the publication of the report of the Veerman Committee, although we do want to make the necessary quality impact. Since the Rutte I cabinet, where VVD and CDA participated, the route is therefore followed to free up the necessary funds by abolishing all or part of the basic grant. We remember the struggle for the long-student ticket. The current cabinet is committed to the complete abolition of the basic grant and return to the loan system. This will save 1 billion dollars, which will be reinvested in higher education later. My group is not yet ready to say goodbye to the current system, which is not so bad in a number of respects. It lowers the threshold to higher education, especially for students from the aforementioned weaker socio-economic and ethnic environments, and constitutes a responsible public investment in the future. In the years behind us, college and institutional funds have already been increased. Our higher education is getting more and more thresholds. If we now switch to a loan system, this will have an impact on the width and quality of higher education. That's too bad. I'll come back to it later. The question is whether we are not penny wise, pound foolish with this bill. First of all, I would like to comment on the significance of this proposal for the student and the assumptions of the draft law relating to the loan system. Then I will look at the effects on higher education itself. A key argument of the bill is that students who will earn sufficient income later thanks to their higher education may best be asked to finance the study through a loan. After all, they can easily repay it later. This reasoning privatises the costs of higher education for young people from 18 years of age in an unprecedented way. That makes the bill far-reaching. Sure, even now many students lend, but they do so in addition to their basic grant which is already helping them a long way. At the time of the introduction of the basic grant in 1986, the child benefit scheme for students was abandoned. There he is, Mr Sörensen: child benefit for children under the age of 27. There was also a public funding allowance for the current system. We're gonna say goodbye to that now. An important motive at the time was that students became independent of their parents and could now arrange financial matters themselves. If the basic grant is abolished, there will be no generic concession at all and parental independence will no longer exist, because the assumption is that parents will be paid along with it. For young people who are going to study, this means that their financial life begins with building debts. In doing so, we place a great burden on the shoulders of early generations. In addition, it has been said before that the Netherlands is already champion in private debt. That's gonna be even more so this way. By calling this way of borrowing a study advance, the link is made with the later income. This is an advance on an uncertain future. That is risky, especially in a world that offers less certainty than ever. Not everyone will be able to acquire a job that's spacious enough to repay the debt. Guarantees on a good job aren't there for everyone. This also requires good labour market policies, which aim at helping more educated people to create jobs. Can the Minister say anything about that connection? Our group does not want to go ahead with this privatisation of study costs and looks at the issue of public benefits. If the reasoning is that higher educated people can earn back their investment themselves, then it can also be argued that the government will recover its investment through the tax. The public return of higher educated people is many times greater than the investment the government makes by providing a basic grant. The WRR points out that the structurally higher tax revenue for the Netherlands will amount to a return of more than 7% per year. That's a higher return than when you bring your money to the market. In any case, the state treasury benefits from higher education. How is it that we do not really read much about this, even in the Minister's answers? The Netherlands, society, the state treasury will benefit greatly from higher education. That is already the case. The cabinet is now taking away extra investment space from the students. In the meantime, there is also the story about public debt, which does amount to 17 billion. It means that we will have more than 70% of public debt and that we will pass an important border. That too is a public effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u80	I hear that amount every now and then, and I try to place it. Honestly, it's not working out. That may be because of my lack of economic background, I've studied other things. Can Mr Kuiper explain what this additional debt of 17 billion is made up of? To be honest, I have not been able to find any good information on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u81	That's easy. The students are borrowing government money. That money needs to be raised. It has to be on the table. The government provides for that. This could amount to 17 billion advanced by the government to finance the total amount of loans.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u82	Does Mr Kuiper mean that you haven't lost that money, if you lend it in part and give it for the rest? Otherwise, I don't understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u83	It's a loan system. Students borrow from the government. The government borrows the money on the capital market. It's in the pieces. It means that the government eventually gets an increase in the public debt of 17 billion. I'm not an economist either, but that's what I read in the papers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u84	But Mr Kuiper is now pretending that this is not the case with the current study funding, while we are now giving the same amount to the students. We give away a part and we lend out a part. Now we're gonna get even less out of it, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u85	That is true, but of course this is done in very different proportions and to a much lesser extent. Again, I've read the same pieces as you. I read that there will be an increase in public debt of 17 billion. Let the Minister explain later. I look forward to it. But it will be visible on the government's balance sheet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u86	Mr. Bruijn, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u87	I'll be very brief. I first heard Mr Kuiper say that public investment in education is a good thing, because it yields a lot of returns. But now I hear him objecting to an investment of 17 billion which the government would do in its own perspective. That is not true, because, as Mr Ganzevoort has said, you should not compare it with a basic path in which the government does not put anything into education. You have to compare it to the basic path that we have now, it's unchanged policy where the government spends the same 17 billion as a gift. There are two questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u88	That's right. I would ask the Minister to explain the 17 billion. Then let it be clear. But my main point is indeed that investing in higher education pays off. Through the tax revenue, it already pays for the government to make that investment. My question to the Minister is: why doesn't she leave it at that? We are also going to ask for a higher tax on wages from higher education staff. They're gonna pay off for the government. So it makes sense to do the investment in higher education this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u89	I think it is really important that this does not last, because you cannot indicate your basic path. Another point is that you say that the government will not pay any more with the new system, but the government or the taxpayer, you and I, will still be paying more than 80% of the cost of study. The other financial concession is a loan on social conditions. So we can't say that the government is pulling out now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u90	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u91	You're saying the government doesn't provide any financial compensation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u92	There's been a shift here. After all, the cost of the current basic grant will no longer be incurred. But my point is, of course, that the government invests in all kinds of ways by maintaining higher education, but also by the basic grant. All this together is a meaningful investment for the government. It yields a return of 7% a year when students start paying income tax later. Read the report Towards a learning economy of the WRR. It strongly argues that investing in education always pays off and will always yield returns.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u93	Mr Bruijn, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u94	I read that report. I know Mr Van Lieshout, who wrote that, well, but he really did not argue this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u95	I refer to page 262 of the report.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u96	I say this in support of what Mr Kuiper says. When we talk about a return of 7% per year from public investment in education, we are talking about investing for a very limited period, namely for a few years. However, this return comes back for a lifetime. So the balance sheet is even sharper than Mr Kuiper said.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u97	That is indeed my reasoning. I would also like to point out that during the period of study, even when compared to peers, a student does not earn an income of his own. He has to take some extra jobs to pay for his studies, but he's actually giving up a period of his life from self-acquiring income. That must always be taken into account. Mr. Chairman. Students will be asked to build a significant debt immediately at the start of their career. No matter how this is presented, students do not find this attractive perspective, especially students who are concerned about whether they can afford it without well-earned parents. We've heard a lot about the extent of loan anxiety, whether it's easy or bad. We have also seen the figures on expected build-up of debt and possible effects on inflow, which is 2%, which is an average. But if we look at this soberly, we have to observe the following. We are talking about averages. It will be the least easy for students from socio-economically vulnerable environments to look at this optimistically. In a number of cases, it will lead to higher student debt, which is above average. It will also deter students from going to study or to do the master's after the bachelor's degree. My group believes that this is being done too laconically. With the introduction of the loan system, we have lost the emancipatory and uplifting effect of the current system of study funding. I do know, however, that for students with not very wealthy parents, the supplementary grant will continue to exist. This was not originally in the proposals and it makes the proposal acceptable to some, but this part was not part of the system of the law and will soon again cause its own implementation problems. How does the Minister intend to check whether incomes below average are actually below average? Faced with parents with a small family and an income below average, who are thus being spared, larger families and parents with an income are going to be above morale who are strongly affected by this scheme. They're right on the border. That is the middle-class problem that Mr Essers mentioned. How righteous is this? This brings me to the effects on higher education itself. If students need to borrow their entire student funding, this leads to calculating behavior regarding the choice and duration of the study. It is fine if students ask themselves the question of which study they will be able to get out of the labour market later on, but they will no longer feel free in their choice. What does the system actually mean for the smaller academic studies, the smaller languages to name but what? These may be the niches of science, but they are niches that make the building of science wide and rich. There was room in the Netherlands to follow your heart when it comes to choosing a study. This feeds our culture with a wide range of academic insights and revenues, but the pressure on it will increase, because the loan will still have to be paid back. The new loan system will also put a brake on the duration of the study. It will lead people to ask themselves after the bachelor if they can still pass for a master's degree. More people will leave academic education with the bachelor's degree as the highest level of education, while policies should aim to deliver more people with a master's degree to society. Those who continue for a master's degree, feel the pressure to choose a one-year-old rather than a multi-year master's degree. Programmes offering a multi-annual master's programme have already come forward. I am also saying this in the direction of Mr Engels, who very much wants it to be monitored. However, the students of the Technical University have already reported with great concern about the three-year master's degree and the financing of their studies. The system therefore inhibits studying where we really need it and does not contribute to strengthening the quality of higher education. Thus, the loan system does not contribute to differentiation, as Veerman advocated, but contributes to the uniformity and elimination of supply in higher education. And that's more than too bad. What is the Minister's view on this? How can the reinvestment of 1 billion go against this? Will the 1 billion be of benefit to all the institutions? Finally, I would like to mention a very different point. It concerns the agreement of participation representation with the broad lines of financial policy, including the distribution of resources between education and research. Is there not too much power here with a participation body, even if it is about'main lines'? I know that this should be a quality clause, but it is a participation body. Retention of consent by such a participation body may have serious consequences for the governance of university or college. My group has strong reservations about this. It is nice to see the university or college as a community, but ultimately the competent authority must be able to act. I would like a response from the Minister. It is clear that our group has great hesitation in this proposal. I will, of course, take part in the debate. I look forward to the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u98	This is the time for me to take part in the debate. It was about the right of consent. Mr Kuiper will understand that I have taken note of his comment on this subject with a little less pleasure. I understand the background to his question, but I would ask him to reflect in the background and to look at the right of consent from this development, when it becomes reality. Does Mr Kuiper not think it right and proper that, if more is asked of students to contribute to the quality of education themselves, they should at least have the right to talk about it? I understand from the bill that this is built in. If there were to be a very big debate, could education and research be continued to a certain level? Then the Supervisory Boards and the Disputes Committee can look into that. Is it so unreasonable to grant students that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u99	That's not unreasonable at all. I agree with Mr Engels that a university is an academic community of students, professors and teachers. The quality of education also concerns students, so they too should be involved in the quality of education, especially now that they are asked to do so in the proposal. The question is whether this should be linked through the participation body and whether it should be linked to a means of power, whereby through the participation body the management of a university or university of higher education can be paralysed in its financial policy. That's the question here. Does it have to go past this line or can it go through another line? I can also imagine that the Minister is asking the college's board of directors to set up a structure for this so that students can actually talk substantially about the quality of education.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u100	I do not disagree with that, but I do not think that Mr Kuiper, in his present time, with modern and mature students, makes little sense to send them into the reeds with a bunny. I am not saying that Mr Kuiper is saying that, but I would like to sum up and tell them that they are allowed to talk, as long as that does not affect the going concern. If I were a student, especially now, I wouldn't be happy about that. You have to offer something substantial to give the participation some focus.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u101	Yes, but Mr Engels himself reminded us in his contribution of past experiments with participation, co-government and co-government within universities, which has led to enormous bureaucracy and endless lectures. That's not how it's supposed to be. I think a board should be able to run. The governance must be able to identify the main lines of financial policy. If this is made impossible by means of a participation body, the competent authority will not be able to actually govern. That's my problem. The effective discussion of quality, by teachers and students together, must certainly be done. That is what I like about the proposals that are now before us. I am really pleased that these talks are going to take place within the institutions. I have no comment on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u102	Mr. Chairman. The key question we seem to have to answer together today is whether members in this house representing the PvdA, D66 and GroenLinks will lend themselves to what has become called the "social loan system." This is worrying, because until recently this house was known as the "chambre de réflexion," where laws were judged on legality, feasibility and enforcement, whereby the members of this house chose an unbound arrangement. Since we are dealing with difficult coalitions and agreements, the parties increasingly tend, instead of carrying out a substantive test, to reach an agreement, to engage in cow-trading and to resort to group discipline and to follow the agreements made on the other side that Members of this House should not bind in any way. The above has led to media coverage of this law leading to the question of whether there will be three or more members in this House of PvdA, D66 or GroenLinks who will vote against this bill in a roll-call vote this evening. If that is the case, the coverage in the next few days will be dominated by the question of whether the voting behaviour of so-called dissidents could be related to the opportunities they were given or not by their party for a new term. We have experienced a similar development in the treatment of the law which threatened to hinder free choice of care. We have seen this during the discussion of the settlement agreement, and we see this also in relation to the treatment of this law: the substance of our review is experienced quite differently. That's worrying.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u103	Mr. Chairman. Does Mr Koffeman have a single clue, let me speak for myself, because I see this as a personal attack, that I am not in the process of a substantive review here?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u104	There's a lot of clues in the media. The media experience it so that in this house the agreements made on the other side will be followed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u105	Does Mr Koffeman think the media is more important than the integrity of his fellow senators?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u106	This is certainly not an attack on the integrity of my colleagues. I note, however, that a number of groups have been identified in advance in the media, including in discussions with representatives of those groups, that they will vote in favour of this bill, despite the fact that they have spoken very critically about the bill. That does not apply to Mr Ganzevoort, because he said that the proposal is very close to what he stands for, so it is certainly not an attack on his integrity. However, it is generally accepted that the critical questions that are being asked here today will not lead to a vote that could be called into question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u107	I can only say that we have always been critical of the borrowing system from the beginning of last year, when the previous version was being discussed, so far. It's part of the First Chamber. We should consider the substance of the matter, and that is also the subject of today's debate. I would appreciate it if Mr Koffeman would respect that a little more in the way he speaks.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u108	I'm doing the best I can. I am also very curious about the voting behaviour tonight. Some spokesmen who had been assumed in advance to vote in favour of the law have now said that this is far from clear. I hope so very much. In this sense, I share Mr Ganzevoort's hope that a critical consideration will take place here, which will result in the choice of a non-binding position expressed in the roll-call vote. I look forward to that. I think it is important to appoint this elephant in the Chamber, not only because I represent the Party for Animals, but also because it must be clear that today it seems that not only the substantive test seems to determine the considerations that are being made. Borrowing money costs money and carries risks. The government has become wise, through damage and shame, to warn citizens in this country against the financial risks they incur by borrowing or investing money. The only thing the minister says about the loans students have to take under the new law is, don't let them drive you crazy. The first commercial lender to put that in his ads instead of the mandatory disclaimer would be directly addressed by the AFM. The LSVb combats this process of borrowing through a complaint to the AFM, drawing attention to the fact that OCW and DUO do not comply with the rules relating to the Financial Companies Behavioural Supervision Decision. There is no mandatory package leaflet that informs pupils and students about the consequences of entering into the student loan even though those pupils and students have already had to report to the training of their choice a week before the bill is passed in this house. They therefore had to choose to enter into a study debt, the extent and conditions of which were and are still unknown to most of them. The Minister said that if the bill was adopted, she would send a letter to all pupils of 5havo and 6vwo explaining it, but that would not in any way provide the necessary information with retroactive effect, regardless of the informational value of such a letter. I ask the Minister how sending a letter, which is intended as information, relates to such a radical change in the system. I'd like a response. In addition, OCW and DUO as lenders should comply with the "borrowing money costs money" provision. They should explicitly warn against debt-taking. The Minister does not seem to be aware of this. Not only did she say at the major student demonstration that students should not be fooled, earlier, on 5 November last, she said during the debate in the Lower House that borrowing is'very normal'. Can the Minister explain why she wants to make borrowing a standard, while the government is trying to convince citizens in all areas that borrowing money should not be considered normal at all? This restraint should apply in particular to the granting of loans to minors. Acting-incompetent citizens, on the advice of the minister, are in debt, because that would be "very normal." Can the Minister tell us what the legal effects will be when an incompetent student incurs a study debt without the required permission of the legal representatives? I'd like a response. The Minister intends, by introducing the loan system, to change unilaterally the terms of the loan for a mbo-scholler passing to the HBO. The Minister forces these students to agree to new loan conditions for the old MBO debt. The retroactive amendment of the loan conditions for the old MBO debt is contrary to legal certainty. Is the Minister prepared to eliminate this planned legal inequality and legal uncertainty for MBOs? I'd like a response. The AFM must ensure that OCW and DUO can actually implement the products and refund rules offered. However, DUO itself sees problems in a study carried out by itself: the abolition of the basic grant and its conversion into loan options, the raising of the supplementary grant for the 2015-2016 academic year, the introduction of the "lifelong learning credit," the issuing of vouchers and the flexibilisation of the reimbursement of the student debt. On all these points, DUO sees problems. On the "lifelong learning credit" it is even said that it is unrealistic to be able to deal with this in spring 2016. The suspicion of failing to implement the draft law is confirmed by an examination by KPMG. I'd like a response. Today we have the task of establishing whether the law is enforceable. There are serious doubts about this in the executive bodies. Can the Minister indicate how she intends to deal with these doubts, what guarantees are there that the law will be enforceable and that students will not fall apart? As far as my group is concerned, this debate is about fundamental values. Education is one of the most fundamental building blocks of a civilized society. As far as the Party for Animals is concerned, this is about good education, not a system of returns in which your future contribution to the economy is becoming increasingly decisive. So the discussion is also about what quality is. The access to education for everyone, the space to develop yourself, the space to discover what you are good at, where your talents lie, where your heart lies, may make a wrong assessment and have the space to restore them. These are core values of an education system that has the quality that the Party attaches importance to for the Animals, and I thought D66, the Party of Labour and GroenLinks too. The Animal Party believes that we should continue to work towards achieving the ideal of equal opportunities for all, instead of turning that around and breaking down the accessibility of the education we were so proud of in this country, which is now threatening to happen. Because if you grow up in an environment where learning is not taken for granted, you can use some encouragement, for example in the form of a basic grant, i.e. a provision for your development and for society as a whole. Then it doesn't do you much good when someone in The Hague says that you just have to stand in your power, read a package leaflet or make a business case for yourself. This loan system has very little social value, except for the label put on it by political marketers. The same political marketers who have previously tried to make it plausible that you are much better off with a privatised cable company, with privatised public transport, that it is much nicer if we all continue working after our 65th year of life, that life is better without a post office, that a regional hospital has no added value, that you shouldn't lift too heavily on your pension, that giro blue doesn't fit you at all, that you should go to a commercial bank to close an investment mortgage, that Europe is quite important and that you can have euros better than guilders in your wallet. In short, political marketers who are willing to sell tubers for lemons. The question is why politicians lend themselves to such sales talk, in which they have come to believe against better knowledge, or in which they themselves do not believe, but have to pretend in the interests of their party or their own political future. Don't pretend to be a dissident during roll-call votes, don't follow your conscience, because that could cost you a candidate spot on the next list of candidates. It sounds cynical but so cynical political reality has become at the moment. Families with lower incomes are now facing a high level of student debt. In many families, young people realize that studying for them is not going to be in it anymore, thanks to it, perhaps, but we still have to wait and see the Labour Party, D66 and GroenLinks, who have committed themselves to a new form of debt addiction as a new standard in the House of Representatives. Debts as a major during your university or HBO course, as a practical course, will keep up with you for the rest of your life and will haunt you if you want to buy a house or enter into other commitments. Students starting their studies this year are going to have a hard time. A student debt that can reach €30,000 and that you can haunt for decades. Research by ABF Research shows that one in ten students will play safe and will refrain from studying. So we run the risk of thousands of talented young people not going to college. Already, after the mortgage debt, the total student debt is the largest debt mountain in the Netherlands, and with this loan system, students' debt will only increase beyond their debt. It's an old political trick. If you need money as a policy maker, take it from a large group of citizens, to a small extent, and make it palpable. This presents the smallest risk of resistance, because debts seem to be perspectivically reduced in the future. Whoever lives, then cares. And the current generation of politicians who have to vote on the loan system tonight has long since been turned off. In the rush to introduce this debt system, the critical opinion of the Council of State Rücksichtslos is put aside. For example, the Council of State does not believe that the alleged investment in education will be realised. Moreover, it is not at all certain whether the promised investments in a subsequent cabinet will really be put into our education. Students will flee the Netherlands as soon as the new loan system is introduced. Professor of Financial Economics Sylvester warns Eijffinger about this. In Germany, tuition fees have been abolished completely and in Belgium, tuition fees do not exceed €600. Why should studying in the Netherlands be so much more expensive and unattractive than in the neighbouring countries? Housing elsewhere is cheaper, the study cheaper, the living cheaper. And in the Netherlands you have to draw lots for a study even more often than in the surrounding countries, with the risk that you will be placed in an expensive city with little living space offer. Why does the Minister claim to be in interviews with various student representatives, when that is not the case? FNV Jong was explicitly mentioned, while FNV Jong himself claims to have been consistently kept out of the door by the minister. The research recently presented by FNV Jong together with LAKS and JOB is clear in the conclusions: young people have no idea what awaits them. What's the Minister gonna do about it? The website of the Ministry of Education clearly indicates that nothing changes for current students. This is not the case with the loan system: university bachelor students lose their fourth year of basic scholarship when the loan system is implemented, something that is not communicated anywhere and which FNV Jong has received dozens of calls from worried students alone over the past week. Can the Minister indicate where the misunderstanding comes from that she thinks she is talking to FNV Jong, while representatives of that organisation do not know anything about it at all? Another question. Not only students and students are party to this new legislation. She also particularly affects their parents. Yesterday, Werner van Katwijk, representative of parents with children studying, turned to us. He argued that the Minister's proposals were at odds with Article 13 (2) (c) of the International Convention on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights. International agreements have been made in that Convention on the gradual freeing of charge of education, including higher education, and once a given right can no longer be reversed. The Minister's proposals are a step backwards in the introduction of free higher education and should therefore be considered contrary to the functioning of the Convention. That sounds like a serious and thoughtful objection on which I would like to hear the Minister's view. Finally. The draft law before us raises major social concerns. As far as my group is concerned, the burden of burdening students with a large and long-term debt is not acceptable. Making debts is a bad example for young people. Seeing your studies as a business case poses a serious threat to the development of young people with parents in especially lower income categories. We are talking in particular about a cut-back operation, although this concept has not been discussed today. The parties supporting the proposal make it appear that students are going to get more for less. This is completely unbelievable for the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u109	I listened carefully to Mr Koffeman's speech. I also respect him very much, not least because I'm an animal friend. I am not yet a member of his party, but I would like to hear from him what his alternative is to the situation he is setting out. I hear him telling us to check for feasibility. That is what we are going to do when we talk about his alternative. Mr Koffeman says that quality must be raised. Then there's got to be money. Let us put that at a billion, or 800 million. Then he says: we should not increase the debt of young people, so we should not introduce a loan system. Then I see a few other possibilities, such as increasing public debt. Then young people will certainly know what awaits them, namely a public debt that will place a great burden not only on the toughest shoulders, but on the whole generation. We can also reprint money. Then it won't be worth anything. What is the alternative of the Party for Animals, if the quality is to be raised? How executable is that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u110	I can say a few things about it. You say we can increase public debt. That is what is happening with this proposal. Let us note that this proposal increases public debt by 17 billion. That's one. You say we can reprint money. That is certainly not the proposal of the Animal Party, but that is what is going to happen on a large scale in Europe right now. In that sense you will be served at your beck and call. That is the kind of solution that is already being taken up. What my party opposes is that we burden students with the problems we all have. You say that if we increase public debt, we must all bear the costs. Well, we would much rather do that than put the costs at the expense of a weak group, namely young students who do not know what they are getting into.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u111	That's very nice, and that's where we'll find each other. What this government is doing is going back to the macro picture that Mrs Gerkens has already mentioned. In its entirety, the cost of taking the Netherlands out of the crisis is spreading to all Dutch people. All Dutch have to turn in an average of 1%. What you are proposing now leaves the most profitable, most promising and highly educated group within their generation out of the loop, when it comes to that percent. That's totally unbelievable, isn't it? I can't become a member of the Party for Animals yet. I can't explain it to the animals at my house. That's two visible to the eye and probably much more microscopically visible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u112	Let me first take away the latter misunderstanding. There are a lot of people who read no further than the name of our party is long. We don't just stand up for animals. We're the party that has a planet-wide program. Not all parties in this house can say that. We are trying to eliminate the short-term interests of man, the self-interest. As a starting point, we are trying to take the interests of another vulnerable species. We do so in every respect, not only when it comes to animals, but also when it comes to vulnerable types of students. That's what I'm standing up for today. I do not think that we should choose to impose high obligations on students now, in case they may later become highly well-off. This will apply to some of them, but it will not apply to some of them. That is why we say: we can take care of education together much better than we do with a weak group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u113	Finally, Mr Bruijn, and briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u114	It's all clear. So we can conclude that Mr Koffeman proposes to invest in better education, but to place the burden on the whole group of Dutch people, except for the highly educated and most promising group, which will soon earn the most. That is clear; so you place it with the weak.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u115	That's a misunderstanding. I'm not billing the highest-educated group at all. In general, students are the lowest educated group, because they still have to be trained.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u116	I am a little less cynical than Mr Koffeman, but I should like to check that: does this mean that he is indeed free as a senator to be convinced in the course of this debate and really make his free choice, or is he just following the group's party line across the street?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u117	Don't worry about that. The party line across the street does not deviate from the thoughts I have on that. It is true that this bill is not acceptable to me. The moment you come up with brilliant new insights, I'd like to open myself up to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u118	Mr Koffeman made it quite clear that the bill was so bad for the lowest income groups and so on. I am curious to hear what he thinks of the improvements made to this proposal in the areas of public transport, the relaxation of the reimbursement system and the supplementary grant. Can he really insist that this is an anti-social system for the poorest groups?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u119	At the moment that students have an O.V. year card and someone who is threatening to take it away, I do not see it as an improvement if you manage not to take that O.V. year card away. I see that as an enforcement of the current system, and that seems to me to be only reasonable. I never argued in favour of taking the O.V. year card. I will never argue in favour of that, and I think it was an unfair proposal to do so. I don't think you should sell your soul to the one who's planning to take student's O.V. year card.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u120	Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing another controversial bill that causes a lot of social turmoil. And right away, the question arises as to what problem this bill will solve. For the problem of financing higher education perhaps, as suggested? Let me first say that the current system of financing is ineffective and even counterproductive. Higher education institutions have been billed for inflow and outflow rates for years. The presumption is then obvious that steering on these two parameters inevitably leads to degradation of quality. Everyone with some experience in higher education knows and sees that this suspicion has unfortunately become and continues to become reality in practice. An additional effect is that universities and colleges, all of which are fishing in the pond of upcoming students, are doing so by competing with each other on the basis of nonsensical considerations. All kinds of studies are provided with sexy stickers, relabelling is the order of the day, the word "innovative" is not of the air, and with glossy leaflets full of swollen recruiting talk you can fill warehouses. Competition between universities and colleges is also encouraged, where too often the missions of the different types of training are confused. For example, the essential distinction between vocational training and scientific training is fading and, in particular, the research component, promoted by all kinds of training, appears to be subject to rather inflation. Research is a word with a good sense of feeling, so if we don't do research, something must be wrong. Too often it is forgotten that leading research that deserves the word'scientific' is a profession and that the fact that a lecturer has been promoted is a necessary but certainly not a sufficient condition for conducting and accompanying research at a high level. By selling illusions too often, large-scale waste of resources is the result. A major objection to the legislative proposal is the preparation of budgetary considerations, which are motivated by a paradigm change. I have rarely seen a blunt austerity measure supported by a more contentless piece of shit. It seems to me that for the future of the Netherlands, the monitoring of technological developments and the training of highly qualified people in this field is closely linked. is of vital importance. By the way, that is exactly what Thomas Piketty argues in his controversial book. In addition, budgetary considerations are at most a derivative. I therefore find it rather bizarre that any adjustments to education and research policy should only be found within the budget of OCW. The future of our country is a lot more than just research and education. Another fundamental objection to the bill is that no distinction is made between disciplines. The quality lists that this government loves are mainly based on the Dutch research achievements in the fields of medical sciences and natural sciences. It is precisely in these disciplines that it is characteristic that the actual content of education is not decisive, because after ten years the technical content is completely changed and obsolete. In my own field, that of physics, I've been publishing articles on subjects that didn't exist at all during my education for decades. This has important implications for the way in which we should organise education in such subjects. The key is the explicit development of problem-solving capabilities and creativity. To teach yesterday's facts for the benefit of today's business is therefore a serious error of opinion. How different is that for the subjects that change in terms of content in time but very slowly. I will not mention the obvious examples, because not everyone likes to hear them. What matters is that what is actually vocational training sets totally different requirements than basic scientific training. Higher education should focus on conceptually difficult issues. Simple general development can be achieved by reading a suitable booklet with the feet on the table. I can assure you that for controlling quantum electrodynamics a little more will come to see. It has become fashionable in recent years to express concerns and doubts about the quality of higher education. Some political parties almost derive their right to exist, although in spite of all rhetoric it is rarely clear what they want. Let me also say on this point that it is not possible to talk about this meaningfully generically. In the Netherlands, for example, university physics is highly regarded internationally. The output and number of citations per staff member are a factor two or three higher than can be expected only on numerical grounds. Moreover, university research in physics is not possible because of the public funding of universities, which is just enough for gas and light. No, high-quality physics research in the Netherlands can only be financed because physicists acquire almost all the necessary resources externally. This involves large-scale investment of millions in equipment and promotional places. It is the PhD students who are appointed in this way, who are largely responsible for teaching physics. All in all, it seems to me that it is extremely difficult to defend the argument that, in the light of the current excellent international position, education in physics would be so bad and so badly in need of improvement. A very strong point in beta training is the working group structure, which is almost standard practice. As a result, education is not only a vertical process of teacher towards student, but close contacts between students and PhD students are at least equally essential. Moreover, increasing the teaching role of staff members will do little to nothing and will only put the necessary research under greater pressure. Moreover, it is an illusion in the natural sciences to think that there can be a strict separation between education and research. It is precisely the interweaving of these two things that is the power of the disciplines in the natural sciences. I have previously argued in the First Chamber that the real driving force behind innovation is fundamental research in medical sciences and natural sciences. It is the laser laboratories in Amsterdam and Nijmegen that are the main suppliers of highly trained physicists for ASML. These highly educated PhD students are mainly from outside the Netherlands; the Dutch student usually prefers a less strenuous route to an academic title. The secret of ASML's success, if a secret can be spoken of, is simply to conduct a staff policy that is not the criterion of whether the candidate's knowledge is directly in line with the business activities. It is precisely the problem-solving capacity that is at the heart of recruitment. There are political lessons to be learned here. I am convinced that the Dutch higher education sector has a lot to gain in budgetary terms. That's not gonna happen with the current bill, which is not much more than a shot of hail fired in the hope of hitting something useful, even though we don't know what yet. The barriers to access to higher education are unnecessarily raised and the undesirable elitaire character is strengthened after years of progress. Instead of tackling study funding, the funding system for higher education should be thoroughly affected. Instead of institutions for the social elite, higher education is about institutions for the intellectual elite. That's what needs to be selected. And that selection has to be strict. There is no point in putting most of the energy into higher education in the least promising students, as is often the case at present. For students with sufficient skills and commitment, study funding should be self-evident, as it should be equally obvious for students who do not meet the requirements not to receive study funding. Selection at the gate and selection based on study progress are indispensable for this. Unfortunately, the Dutch political reality is very far from this. Everything has been said about the legislative proposal itself in the written preparation and in the public debate. The key question is whether the Dutch student should be seen as a small entrepreneur who is constantly optimizing his individual interests. Whether society as a whole benefits from this kind of calculating student is also to be seen. It would be hoped that following an academic study would be a little more than an investment decision aimed at future financial returns. Mental poverty trump card, I'd say. I believe that the social importance of a highly skilled and motivated labour force is a great asset whose value cannot be measured economically. By removing barriers, not by creating additional barriers, society is always doing itself a huge service. Indeed, also financially, because through taxation much of the extra income generated by additional training and possibly higher salaries is returned to the Treasury. Mr Kuiper spoke about this in detail. The list of objections to the bill is long. First of all, the Council of State is very critical in many respects and at least not enthusiastic. In particular, there are critical comments about the fact that the bill is breaking the continuity of education policy. After all, the social debate on study funding is not today or yesterday, and it would have been hoped that there would be a consensus on this subject in any case. Unfortunately, that does not appear to be the case. It should not be surprised that this leads to considerable social tensions. As with so many of the cabinet's legislation, there has been a return to haste, without proper transitional arrangements being put in place. As usual, the First Chamber is more or less forced to sacrifice its normal, careful procedures to ministerial hunting. My group believes that this price is too high. What does society actually get in return for all these objections? It's not that easy to come up with a convincing story. The budgetary objective is paramount, and it is argued that it is not a reduction but a creative way of investing in higher education. The need to improve higher education is also constantly recognised, without making it clear what exactly is wrong with that same higher education. The way in which these improvements are to be made remains hidden in the mist of undoubtedly good intentions. This is all the more important if the distinction between vocational training and scientific training is not clearly identified and the distinction between disciplines and their strengths and weaknesses are not clearly identified. A lack of analysis can never be the basis for a promising approach. Undoubtedly, the financing of high-quality higher education is a problem. The fact that we are solving this problem by putting all kinds of achievements from the past on the chopping block does not convince my group for the time being. In my speech, therefore, I have emphasized other, and I am sure better, directions for resolution. I'd like to hear the Minister on that. I'll sum up. I ask the Minister again what exactly the problem is and how this bill is going to solve that problem. The answer to that crucial question is to my group with more than usual interest, but not without concern.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u121	Thank you, Mr De Lange. This will put an end to the first term of office. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? I see that is not the case. I shall suspend the sitting until 5 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u122	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank your Chamber very much for the opportunity to discuss this bill so soon. I appreciate that very much. I appreciate that, too, because, if your Chamber agrees after the discussion of this bill, we will have more than six months to get to work to inform prospective students. This also allows us to shift the focus from the political process to implementation, so that we will have the smoothest possible transition to the new situation. I shall come back to that later on when it comes to information. First of all, I have a few general comments on the reform of study funding in a broader perspective. The reform of the study funding proposed by this bill is one that has been discussed for a long time since the 1990s. Mrs. Gerkens went back a lot longer. I also recognized a lot of that, because a number of PhD students are investigating 200 years of study funding, but I am limited to the period from the 1990s onwards. Then the basic grant is under discussion and a reform of the system is part of the political debate. This debate is being conducted from different angles, depending on the political preference of the person who has the floor. For example, the efficiency argument is often mentioned: the basic grant is ineffective because every student gets it, whether the grant is needed or not. Its justice is also disputed: it creates an undesirable redistribution of resources. Low incomes thus also contribute to the maintenance of students, whereas they are mainly among the higher incomes and that is not fair, it is argued. Others approach it from the fact that students themselves have a great interest in attending higher education. From that point of view, it is only logical that they themselves should contribute to this. Finally, the basic grant is extremely expensive. The government spends about 3 billion on income support, of which 1 billion on the basic grant. Compared to other countries, the Netherlands is an outsider. For example, the Netherlands spends about as much on higher education as Germany. That country was mentioned as an example a few times. However, this money is much more likely to go to generic income support. I can say straight away to Mr Bruijn and Mr Koffeman that despite the differences in tuition fees, much more German students still come to the Netherlands than Dutch students come to Germany. So that doesn't have much to do with tuition fees. This has to do with the quality of education. We also see this in other countries. The tuition fees are indeed higher here, but education is also better than in other countries. That's why it's not so weird that a lot of people from elsewhere come here. For me, the most important thing is that we ask students who can carry it to finance the amount that they will now receive as a basic grant as a social loan, so that we can organise even better education for all students with the money that we have no longer spent on the basic grant. For those students who cannot bear it because their parents' income is too limited to contribute, the supplementary grant simply remains in existence. In fact, this is being increased. This is a supporting argument in the bill and it has also been shared by the parties involved, but of course everyone in the political discussions, including in the House of Representatives, has put other accents. But that the system is no longer of this time, was in any case shared by the four parties who voted in favour of the bill in the Lower House. In this way we can create the conditions to appeal to the talents of all students and prevent a division in education. I want the investments to benefit higher education across the board, to benefit all students and not just a select group. As far as I am concerned, the university lectures have a place within the system, but higher education should and should not become an education for the happy few who can afford it. I think many in your Chamber share that view with me. As already mentioned, all these arguments have been discussed in the public debate in recent years, in a large number of studies and reports. At the time of the performance fair, in 1994, a number of MPs argued for an alternative in the form of an academic tax or a study fee, among others the Dutch MPs Poppe and Rabbae. The Hermans Committee in 1997: "The cost goes out for knowledge." The 2003 Committee supposedly: "Learning to invest; investing in learning'. In 2003 the LSVb, together with the MPs Van Dam and Vendrik, argued for a study tax or an academic tax. The previous cabinet, of the VVD and the CDA, with the support of the PVV, came with a loan system in the master phase. We could say that this bill builds on all the arguments that have already been mentioned in the past, and that it also reaps the benefits. In that sense, it is not a rash legislative proposal, but it has a very long history. At the same time, unlike the previous proposals, this bill makes it possible to invest heavily in the quality of higher education, because the money is not leaking out of higher education, but is being reinvested to improve quality. That is an essential part of this proposal and that makes it different. At the beginning of my speech, I would also like to comment on Mr Bruijn's comments on student organisations, ISO and LSVb. I know they have a lot of criticism of the bill. I am also pleased that they are thinking critically-constructively, including about the future agenda. Maybe in the end I should also be happy, because when the basic grant was introduced, 35,000 students at the Malieveld protested against it, because they did not think it was fair. In 2011, the figures differed, depending on who you ask, between 11,000 and 20,000 students protested against the introduction of the longitudinal study measure. Recently, in November, 2,000 students protested against the introduction of the study advance. Whether we should interpret this as support or more support than in the past, I leave it to the student organisations. With Mr Bruijn I am grateful for the criticism of the past few decades, because indeed, without friction no shine. This means that I would like to involve them in the implementation of the investment agenda and that I have regular contact with them. Yesterday I had a HO-tour meeting in Utrecht, where at least it was ISO, but I also see the LSVb regularly. I say to Mr Koffeman that I have not spoken to FNV Jong recently, but as far as I know they did not say that they wanted to. If so, they are very welcome. All those involved, especially young people and students, are always welcome to talk to me about the investment agenda and the study advance. A lot of questions have been asked about the underlying thoughts of this bill. In short, it is about how much investment by students is now part of a public responsibility or whether it is just an individual business case. I have heard the spokesmen of the VVD, the PvdA, the CDA, the SP and others, including the Christian Union. I have heard Mrs Sent ask intrusive questions about it and I have also heard Mr Bruijn make a number of comments on it. Let me say first of all that I do not think it would be desirable, but I also do not expect Mrs Sent to ask that an unintentional side effect of this bill could be to increase income inequality. After all, the choice to study is not a consideration that a student should make with the calculator in hand: how much does it cost me and what does it get me? That's not the way you have to make a choice for a study. Above all, this consideration needs to be about what you want as a boy or girl of 17 or 18 years old and can do with your talents, where your heart will beat faster and what you get excited about. Several speakers have referred to this. How do you want to shape your life and how do you want to use your talents for society? That is exactly what I think is very important. We must appeal to young people as involved and responsible citizens, who are responsible for the development of their own talents, for themselves, but also for this society. The balance between them is very important to me, also in the way we communicate to students. Mr Engels said it nicely: studying is also about social value. It's about culture, about civilization, about historical awareness and reflective ability. Mr. Ganzevoort also spoke about education and the choice of study that suits you. I agree with Mrs Gerkens that it would be undesirable if it were just to opt for a profession aimed at making a lot of money. The social interest motivates itself to defend the great contribution that the government is still making to higher education training. We're not asking the student to pay for his entire study. There's been a misunderstanding. It is still the government that pays most of the education costs: €6,500 per student per year at €1,906 tuition fees paid by the student per year. The government then also creates the conditions for young people to develop their talents through accessible higher education, in which you can study regardless of the thickness of your parents' wallet. I attach great importance to the accessibility of high quality higher education to all and not just to a small group. Where students borrow, they can do so under social conditions. Several spokesmen have referred to this. Precisely because these conditions are social, I believe that as a government we can actually ask: as a society we can also ask from students. Under the conditions just mentioned, the student may be asked to bear responsibility by contributing to his own study and taking his own responsibility, also in the financial sense, by contributing to the cost of living. They also have a responsibility in terms of citizenship. Young people, blessed with talent, who have the privilege of attending higher education, should also be asked to make their contribution to society, precisely because we reinvest these resources to improve higher education for all students from whatever background. As a result, I believe that the student's sense of responsibility can also contribute to improving the quality of our education. I think that we can also ask for this contribution to be justified. That is why it is not just about the forming and uplifting task that should be central. Mrs Sent spoke about this and I fully agree with her. However, it is not just about raising the individual student, but also about improving education for all students, a broader responsibility for our society and the development of everyone's talents. In the political agreement of May last year we put it this way: quality of education is not only knowledge or craftsmanship, but above all a broad development of every student, for example the development of an open attitude, of engagement and empathy, entrepreneurship, ambition, curiosity and problem-solving ability. We call it "b" and here comes "bildung." That term has also been used by many others today. I could call it different. I can refer to the Committee of the Telder Foundation, which happened to be led by Mr Bruijn, who described it in this way in 2012: education serves a higher purpose, which is most strikingly described as the most harmonious possible development of the potentials of each individual for the benefit of the individual himself and society as a whole. I was very pleased that he mentioned John Stuart Mill among others as one of his sources of inspiration. For me too, this is an important source of inspiration, a social liberal who put the development and emancipation of citizens at the heart of any citizen, but with a view to social relations and responsibility for society. Mr Kuiper spoke about the privatisation of higher education. That's what I'm really resisting. I see this much more as an investment in society. Perhaps this was caused by the paradigm shift from the self-employed to the investing student, which we discussed in the explanatory statement and to which Mrs Sent and Mr Kuiper referred. The independent student, of course, referred very much to the dependent student who existed before, who was dependent on the parents' family allowances. However, I note that terminology has created confusion, for example in the Council of State. However, I also refer to Mrs Sent's comments, as if students should be guided by the view of a higher income alone when choosing to study and as if that independent student would suddenly no longer play a role. Nothing could be further from the truth. In view of this confusion, it is better not to use that term and I should be able to talk about the student in charge. I have heard many spokesmen say the same. This avoids the confusing term of investing student. That is the student we address, not as a calculating student who chooses his studies purely on the basis of personal financial considerations, but as a student aware of his or her talents and with the awareness of the responsibilities that this entails. Of course, students themselves also benefit from studying, because I would, above all, encourage young people to develop and exploit their talents in higher education, so that they will later use them not only for themselves but also for society. I admit that I will also leave this central in the information on the study advance by DUO and by my ministry. We want to appeal to the students on their talents and responsibilities. I was just talking about the Bruine Commission. Senator Thom de Graaf, chairman of the Association of Colleges, said in his New Year's speech for the Association of Colleges as follows: education should captivate, tell stories, give depth and think: bildung. He also used that word. Perhaps that counts more today than ever, because the students currently in universities and colleges are the professionals of the future. Those are also the leaders in many different places of the future. If we want to create a society in which we can face problems and form a coherent society with each other, we must now prepare for them, through this group of professionals, these leaders of the future, and therefore ask them to take their social responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u123	The Minister asks for a social responsibility, for his own responsibility, financial responsibility and citizenship. She asks not only of all students, but also of special groups, of 16- and 17-year-olds and increasingly even of 14- and 15-year-olds. These people are not yet of age. They can't vote, they can't smoke a cigarette, they can't drink alcohol, and they can't drive a car. But the Minister does think that at that age they can take all that responsibility and be able to have citizenship at that age?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u124	I think young people can be responsible, too. Fortunately, we also see this in secondary education. In recent weeks, the Secretary of State and I have repeatedly called for responsibility for society, i.e. citizenship, to be given to young people, by paying attention to that responsibility in the teaching programmes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u125	I know that there are teaching programmes for this and I know that there is discussion about this because they do not seem to work as well as they want. But I see a discrepancy after all. The Minister says they can handle it easily. I would change the voting age immediately, because then 18 years is far too high. But at the same time, the individuality of the bill is called upon: you are going to earn more, so you also have to take care of yourself, which is best done by taking out your own loan. That's contradictory, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u126	No, I don't see it that way. By the way, I did not use the words "with ease." I've been talking about the content of what you want to give young people. I have just tried to make it clear that the study advance is about the responsibility of the government to ensure access to higher education. The government must contribute to this social responsibility, also because we know that we are getting a lot in return from society. Then we create the social conditions to be able to borrow responsibly. Against that background, overlooking everything, you can ask students to make their own contribution, precisely because you reinvest that money in better education for everyone. In my opinion, this would be more of a dichotomy than an incentive to create different groups of young people, a group of whom would only be interested in one's own income. That's what I've been trying to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u127	Mrs. Gerkens, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u128	The Minister contradicts himself. Because when I asked her if a young person aged 16 or 17 is able to make such a financial decision herself, she replied that the parents are still there. But here she says: it's all possible, because young people 16 or 17 years of age have a very good sense of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u129	No, I'm not saying that. I say that we think it is of the utmost importance that we not only teach language and mathematics to young people aged 16 and 17, but that it is also important that they treat each other responsibly in order to teach them citizenship. That's what I'm saying. Then I say that 17- and 18-year-olds who are going to study should be very well informed. You have to give them a responsible choice about what studying means. It is not just about the financial picture for their own future, but above all about the significance of a system in which young people can develop their talents. We want that to be the case for everyone and for higher education to be accessible. Under a number of conditions you can also ask about young people. I will come back to all the financial issues, because I think it is very important that we distinguish between a public-organised loan and a commercial loan. I have the impression that some of the speakers were confused. This is a very specific social system of borrowing. Accessibility is a foundation of the system. That is a great asset for higher education in the Netherlands, for many of the spokesmen today and also for me. I understand very well that this is a concern for the Chamber: how are the vulnerable groups? Is accessibility sufficiently secured for them in the new system? I have heard PvdA, VVD, D66, GroenLinks and CDA talk about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u130	Is the Minister still referring to information and communication with young people and to the role of the Nibud in guaranteeing financial conditions, so that the choice is to develop its own talents?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u131	I will come back to that in detail. This information is about the awareness of the student responsible. I have just tried to point out that this awareness will be central to the information of DUO and the Ministry. It is very important to take into account the impact of the study advance on participation in higher education in general and of different groups in particular. Because anyone who has talents and motivation should be given the opportunity to study regardless of their origin or the contents of their parents' wallet. That is why many studies have been carried out to identify what study voters are going to do. On this basis, a large number of accompanying measures were taken which were not provided for in the coalition agreement. I refer to the investigations of the CPB, ResearchNed, the SCP, the Centre for Higher Education, the CBS, GfK Intomart and the Nibud. These are investigations of respected bodies that all look at the effects from a certain expertise, angles and own assumptions, quantitative or qualitative, based on foreign or Dutch experiences, ex ante or ex post, with their own strengths and limitations. It is really about the whole of research that has been used to adapt the proposals of the coalition agreement and to take substantial accompanying measures. It is not a question of predicting in advance the exact effects in terms of numbers and behavioural effects of the interplay of the many interrelated policies. This bill is a broad bill, which covers much more than just abolishing the basic grant. I cannot deal with all these joint effects, I say to Mrs Gerkens, as a kind of N=1 on each individual case. The fact that we are talking mainly about averages and summaries of all these studies is not out of lack of time, but because all these studies have their own limitations. As with any policy proposal, you never know in advance what its consequences could be for each individual. However, I believe that we have gained a reasonable understanding of the coherence of the measures. Furthermore, with the various methodological possibilities and limitations, we can indicate where the concerns lie and where we need to put extra emphasis to ensure that nothing goes wrong. If I sum up the conclusions of the studies, it remains, on the basis of an estimate from the CPB, with a possible limited decrease in participation of around 2%, i.e. some 2,700 students per year for HBO and WE. Those numbers are a calculus like the CPB that always makes. It's the best we've got. International research has shown that Mrs Sent rightly referred to this as a temporary dip of about two years, which is recovering. Mr Bruijn rightly referred to the fact that the CPB investigation was carried out before the accompanying measures were taken. At that time there was therefore an increase in the supplementary stock exchange and no change in the pay-off arrangements. In short, these accompanying measures have been chosen to look precisely at how we can further reduce possible effects. So I also assume that that 2,700 number will be adjusted downwards rather than upwards. Despite these figures, I don't sit back comfortably. I have heard some say that the Minister makes it very easy, as if nothing is going on. But of course, any student who simply and only for financial reasons renounces a study is undesirable. I have just said how much I personally and politically attach to this accessibility. I am, of course, prepared to do the best I can to ensure that there will be as little as possible of a dip in notifications and that, if there is one, they will only be temporary. Research carried out by the SCP has shown that there are particularly vulnerable aspects among the target group of the flowing MBOs. The political groups of PvdA, D66, GroenLinks and ChristenUnion, among others, point to this. It is good to go a little bit more into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u132	It is good to hear that the Minister himself is so involved in this possible decline of the influx. The numbers and reports are coming along. Does the Minister himself understand what the vulnerable environments are? The Veerman committee says that the socio-economically weak environments are lagging behind, as are ethnic minorities. Did the minister specifically investigate that group?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u133	We know that exactly these two groups can be vulnerable. We have seen this in the past, because immigrants are often the first generation students, where it is not normal to go to college. We know from the SCP study that especially among the low economic-social groups the hesitation to study and borrow is already greater. We also know from the SCP study that there is, in particular, a group of MBOs, which has already been there for the accompanying measures that have said: we may think that this financial threshold is too high. This applies to about 20% of them. The same research showed that, in particular, havists and vwo'ers continue to find it extremely self-evident to go to higher education. So precisely because there are vulnerabilities, I would now like to go into this more fully.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u134	These vulnerabilities are also noted in Herman van de Werfhorst's research. That is the investigation that has emerged in the documents. In it he shows that children from higher environments with much cultural help, as it is called, are more willing to borrow for their studies than children from lower environments with little cultural resources. That totally confirms this image. How does the Minister intend to do anything for them?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u135	These groups are part of the group I was just talking about. They often take that first step to the MBO. There really is a focus; to make sure that MBO students who have MBO-4 levels, who can thus go to HBO, do not go to HBO because of financial considerations or because of lack of information about financial opportunities, for example that they do not know that there is an additional scholarship. We need to put our finger on that as best we can.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u136	The Minister says she will do the best she can to limit the number of downfalls. In what way will she do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u137	Those questions are close together. First of all, I need to know more precisely what the considerations are. I focus on the group of MBO students: why are they going to study or not? We don't know exactly which students these potential dropouts are. We do know, for example, that in the first year of the HBO 13,000 students already fall out in the first year. They're quitting college. So that is not a question of wrong choice of study or switching. They're not coming back. In the wo there are a lot less, but there are still 2,000. I said that if the students mentioned by the CPB fall within this group, and this is therefore a subset within that group, with the introduction of the study advance we might take an important step in a more conscious choice of study. After all, now loss leads to a lot of frustration, not least with the student himself, who has started an education that he can't handle or doesn't like or doesn't match the expectations. No one's been served with that. However, this is by no means a plea to look only from the narrow perspective of a business case. I do not think it would be acceptable for specific groups to fall out for purely financial reasons. 40% of the MBO-4 students now go straight to HBO. Mbo'ers, on request, will provide various explanations for the non-transfer to HBO of SCP and Intomart's investigations. A common reason is that HBO training is too high or has no added value for the intended work compared to the current training. Furthermore, MBO participants indicate that they have completed their studies. They just want to work, go into the labour market and make money. Sometimes they already have a job or want to continue learning in the workplace. It follows from the SCP study I have just quoted that the labour market perspective plays an important role in the choice of MBOs to move on to HBO. We have to accept that MBO-4 is a completed education and that it is very good and sometimes even better to find a place on the labour market. If you allow the motives of young people to work on you or not, it is clear to me that although many mbo's flowing through, but also that there is a large group in which studying is not at all automatic. In this group there are many MBOs who consciously choose the labour market. The job prospects for graduated MBOs at Level 4 are still very good at this economically difficult time. According to figures from the 2013 Maastricht ROA Institute, around 87% of the bol'ers and 96% of those who completed their MBO-4 level training in 2011 had an average job within one month. About 1% of the MBO-4 graduates are unemployed for more than a year. In HBO, this percentage is higher: 2.8. To be honest, I do not find it strange that students who are in favour of such a choice should also consider this type of data. I think it is desirable that they also examine other possibilities for their own situation. Also over the past few years, despite the economic crisis, MBO-4 graduates came to work, albeit a little longer on this. For example, it took most bol'ers at level 4 in 2008 on average less than a week and in 2011 on average three weeks before they found a job. Demand for MBO-4 graduates is expected to continue to increase in the coming years. So these students consciously choose to go to work instead of doing a follow-up study. Then I'll join another group. There is also a group that hesitates. This group is often made up of potential first-generation students, I say to Mr Kuiper. Perhaps they are not encouraged from home at all. This is the group for which the emancipatory role traditionally played by HBO is still very crucial. It is very important for them that we inform them very well so that they know what the possibilities are, for example that the supplementary grant continues to exist and is increased. MBOs who do not want or are unable to take full-time HBO-bachelor training and who do not enter the labour market directly may also make a different choice from those for full-time HBO training. For example, they can opt for an associate degree programme. The Ad has been developed as an independent labour market qualification, but also offers the opportunity to achieve an HBO bachelor degree. You spend two years getting an associate degree. This will enable you to enter the labour market, but you can also get your full HBO degree. So it's meant for this group. Many MBO-4 students who continue after MBO are going to study part-time, sometimes in combination with work. Sometimes they indicate that they first want to professionalise and develop in the labour market and then start a part-time study. For more and more MBOs such a study or an Ad is an attractive route. With the Quality of Diversity Act, we have also legally anchored it. I would also like to remind you of recent policy changes aimed at getting that student better in the right place. Those changes may contribute to a more conscious choice. I'm calling the study-choosers. Those who register on time are entitled to a study check. That's important to all students. Utrecht University recently indicated that this year's dropout decreased by an average of 12% due to the study choice check. This is particularly important for the MBOs and first-generation students. We have a project Stimulation LOB, career guidance, in which we work on regional cooperation between HBO and MBO institutions. Mbo institutions, for example, that offer a future check by analogy with the study choice check in higher education; the Shipping and Transport College in Rotterdam is very successful in this. More school coaches are being trained for conversations with students. In the MBO we are reviewing the qualification structure, which gives more possibilities for choices, including for mbo-4, to make preparations for the HBO. The planned introduction is planned for the 2016 academic year. Until then, MBOs can prepare themselves for the HBO level in the open area of MBO training. In consultation with the HBO and MBO institutions, we are actually taking steps here. There is also work on strict admission to HBO for the purpose of: the right student in the right place. Where havists and vwo'ers already have to meet certain requirements to flow through, this does not apply to MBO students. Any MBO student, with any education, can now attend any HBO course. I give examples of transit routes that are still possible: from mbo trade and entrepreneurship to hbo water management or from mbo care and well-being to hbo economy. These are examples where the fallout is very large. For this we are now going to do what we already do for havists and vwo'ers. Furthermore, from the 2015 academic year we will make additional demands on the prospective pabo students, especially in the fields of geography, history, nature and technology. This also means that we will make the transition from MBO to HBO more stringent in a certain way, but with the aim of getting the right student in the right place. With the autumn chord resources, from 2015 onwards, 4 million has been added structurally to the lumpsum of the MBO settings for switching programs to improve the flow from MBO to HBO. In the study advance this is also a very clear appointment: investing in switching from MBO to HBO, especially for the vulnerable group of students. Switching, flowing and study success will therefore also be developed from that perspective in the near future. I also take measures in the area of study funding. I will be brief, because a lot has already been said about it. We ease the payback conditions, which become more social, and half the monthly expenses. This is also very important for this group, because now a student pays 12% of the student loan per month and that is 4%. For a group that is not used to attending higher education, this can help to take that step. We are strongly committed to good information. I have said all that I need to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u138	This is an impressive list of all kinds of measures that have been or are being taken to get people to study and to make a responsible choice of study. Our concern is and remains that from the competent side the Central Planning Bureau has calculated that 2,700 students are going to fail. The Minister can say that this report appeared before accompanying measures were taken, but why wasn't the Central Planning Office asked to take this into account again? The Central Planning Office is an extremely authoritative institution in these areas. We can of course go to another research organisation, but first of all we take the Central Planning Bureau very seriously. I'm happy with the list. If it turns out that the Central Planning Office is right, when is the Minister going to say that what we have is not enough and that we have to respond? What period is the Minister going to do that and what percentages? The minister rightly said that every potential student who is not going to study is one too many. Certain minimum rates will have to be set before action is taken by the Minister. We would like to have a little more feeling about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u139	First of all, I would like to address the question about the CPB. The CPB has many possibilities, but also limitations. The CPB works with an economic model, a calculation rule. We've had all these investigations. It was more than half a metre of reports. We've had them working on us together. We have said that we will not know better than this. We need to do this and we need to start monitoring properly now. The House of Representatives also requested this, according to the motions of Slob c.s., Klaver c.s. and Van Meenen. I take this one very seriously. In particular, the Klever c.s. motion. calls for direct monitoring, including after the inflow and flow and also of vulnerable groups. We are going to do this by comparing the current inflow on the basis of a zero measurement with the inflow after the introduction of the bill. However, I would like to say straight away that a few of the measures I mentioned are also due to take place in 2015. We must take this into account. I identify to what extent the population structure changes and which factors are responsible for this. In accordance with Mr Slob's and Mr Klaver's motions, I will at least look at the socio-economic background, the pre-training of mavo, havo or vwo. the influx of students into two-year master's programmes and students with disabilities. I will monitor the appeal and effectiveness of measures, such as the increased supplementary grant and the allowance for students with disabilities. In addition to this quantitative part of the monitoring, I will also provide qualitative research: what are the motives of non-flowing people with a MBO, Havo or VWO degree? I think this is very important to get a closer look at the arguments. Are these in the organization of the loan system or in the provision of inadequate information? In the latter case, I have an additional task in the field of information. If they are not going well from the transition from MBO to HBO, then we need to intensify the switching programs. I can't tell you what percentage I'm going to do that at right now. I can say that I will send an annual policy response to the House of Representatives, as I have already promised to the House of Representatives, and that I will discuss with students, institutions and the Parliament the facts that will emerge from the monitoring in due course. This monitoring will therefore be intensive. I say to Mr Bruijn that I am prepared to include the First Chamber in this process. However, I do need to know exactly where the problems are before I can tell you when I am going to take what measures. Again, if these 2,700 students were already 2,700, a subset of 13,000, I would have a different problem than if that group of students were from the first generation or from a particular socio-economic group, low six groups, so to speak. I'm gonna have to do something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u140	I understand that it is difficult to distinguish exactly what would normally fall under the fallout and what under the first generation. Does the Minister understand our concern that she may come to the conclusion in five years' time that there is indeed much more failure than we suspected and that nothing has been done about it? Nothing has been done, because we are investigating everything and want to know exactly where it comes from. That sense of urgency must of course be there and there must also be willingness to intervene quickly. When the minister talks about monitoring, this can also mean: quietly, wait. For the time being, however, very little is happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u141	I understand Mr Essers' concern. After my reply, I also come to Mrs Sent, who has just asked very strongly for it. This is all we monitor. I heard some of you say: monitoring, monitoring, that sounds like something's being kept up, but what are we going to do? I have already mentioned it in general terms: I will find a solution depending on the cause we see for a possible decline in study. I think we already have a big package. However, I say to the House that I will do the following in addition to these measures. I admit that I will soon send a personal letter to all students of MBO-3 and -4 who are graduating as well as to all graduation candidates in Havo and vwo. Mr Bruijn will therefore probably receive a letter, but with him a lot of others as well. Especially those students from Mbo-3 and -4 are important, I think. If necessary, I will send a further letter to the MBOs after 1 May, or call again, if I have any doubts as to whether all MBOs have been properly informed. That is why I do so in order to draw students who, for financial reasons, have doubts about continuing their studies, should they prove to be there. In that letter I will actively communicate the existence of the supplementary grant and the social reimbursement conditions, including in the form of the infographic which all final examination candidates receive in the letter in preparation for their study. This is also done in the flyer that all current students receive at their DUO probationary announcement this year, in the letter that all upcoming students receive when this bill is final, in the application form for study funding, in the flyer for deans, on the websites DUO.nl and Startstudderen.nl and in the target group specific letters from DUO. In addition, I will continue to do this. I will continue to actively monitor the level of awareness of these aspects of study funding, in particular with the group that we believe may need more attention. Now I am thinking specifically of the group of MBO students. Then we can redirect and give you more information if we need to. If extra attention is needed, for example for students with lower socio-economic status, we can take appropriate measures. I also undertake to invite the network of deans, study advisors and LOB staff in the MBO, to ask them what they consider necessary to ensure that any MBO who for financial reasons would doubt the flow, get hold of and keep in-board. By doing so, we ensure that we do not impose any blueprints now, but that the people who have to do it on the workplace also get what works best for this target group. I will also ask them how we can organise students with financial questions, doubts or concerns at a person or window at their institution or in the region. So this has to be someone who encourages a study-chooser to go on studying. Because imagine you're the first in your family to think about going to college and just say to the people around you, "Why would you do that?" And "You just need to borrow, and that's not wise at all." Then there must be people who can talk about this, who can help someone to get things straight and make a conscious choice, who can help overcome unnecessary hesitations or fear of borrowing and who can draw up a financial plan where necessary. Then I'm thinking about a financial study consultant or a trusted person. I also admit that, should these professionals argue that they need additional resources, I will make them available. Furthermore, students from HBO who have once struggled with this dilemma can also play a good role in it, namely by acting as a mentor. Yesterday I was at an MBO facility where HBOs were doing exactly that. They can tell it better than me or anyone else from a professional point of view. The fellow students who have taken that step can do that like no other. If monitoring would show that more efforts are needed in the area of information and strengthening financial awareness, I will also facilitate the use of these financial consultants and trusted persons, both organisationally and financially. I'm highly recommended to do more. Mr Bruijn asked about the rapprochement in vo and mbo. I admit that the Chamber will receive the reports on this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u142	The Minister mentions an impressive number of measures to allow future students to make a sensible financial choice but also to prevent them from getting a loan version. In this context, what is the Minister's position on my proposal that this social loan system, which is not a commercial system but may have far-reaching consequences, should be subject to the AFM's rules and should therefore also give an opinion on the extent of the financial risk involved in taking up the loan?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u143	I will come back to that later, but the AFM also acknowledges that this loan is of a very different nature than a normal commercial loan. That is why we have made agreements with the AFM and with the banks about the extent to which a student debt counts if you are going to take out a mortgage. It doesn't count. In fact, with this new law it counts less than with the current study loan, i.e. 0.45%. I would also like to say this: there is still a lot of borrowing. It's not like we're going from nothing, getting everything, to everything, where everything has to be borrowed. That's far from the truth. A lot of students, about two thirds of them, are borrowing now, too. I would therefore like to assure Mr Bruijn that I will ensure that the Chamber receives the opinion of the VO Council on the anchoring of career orientation. The Secretary of State will send that to the Chamber. The evaluation of career guidance in the MBO will be published at the end of 2015. I'll tell you what, I'll send it to the Chamber. In this section I had another question from the Party for Animals about the research of ABF Research which would show that one in ten students would not go to study. I say it once more, also in the whole of all the studies: this is an investigation that we have not used, because it is based on a number of fundamentally wrong assumptions. As examples of such an assumption, I would like to mention the hypothetical situation that the IPR card would also disappear and that there would be no supplementary grant. There were a number of other points. We have based our actions on investigations that were reliable. I have already mentioned many of them. Furthermore, I have now made a number of commitments about this very vulnerable group of young people, of whom we all, including myself, want them, if they make the rational, good and well-thought-out choice of going to higher education, not to give up financial considerations. In my opinion, with the social conditions, we have created all the conditions to prevent that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u144	Thanks for the answer. However, I would very much like to go back to what the Minister said before, namely that she wants to do everything she can, for example through deans and so on, to accompany young people in the consequences of adopting this bill. How does the Minister view it that young people who joined the university or college last week are now faced with loan conditions which they could not have known last week but which are already starting for this year? Does the Minister also take the view that Mr Sent mentioned, namely that you cannot do it, that you can also refrain from studying or that you can cancel your registration? Is that all students are offered? Or can the Minister say that it is extremely unfortunate that you signed up last week and hear tomorrow what the terms will be?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u145	No. For this reason, however, I have also urged the First Chamber to deal with the legislative proposal as soon as possible. In fact, I cannot wait for the full roll-out of information. So far, of course, I have had to do so with caution because I have wanted and have had to respect the Upper House, just like the Lower House. I would add that 90% of the students know that there is a change in approach. So it's not like students on a large scale don't know what's going on. By the way, I think this group is even more conscious. This is a group of students who are still eligible for draw, but not anymore if it is up to me. So they make a conscious choice in it. The deans are also aware. Furthermore, each student does not have to follow the study for which he or she has enrolled in the decentralised selection. The sooner we can start the full roll-out of information, the better it is for me. That's what I said at the beginning. Because there is already a group that has had to register for decentralised selection, we can assume that they are aware of the changes that are coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u146	But my question was whether the Minister agrees with me that it is an extremely unfortunate situation. There is full understanding of the fact that the Minister has therefore called for early treatment. That was driven from the minister's office. You can also reason from the Chamber. However, I try to reason from the student who signed up last week and is now confronted with the conditions in force for his application. Sees the Minister in any way to offer this student more than "take it or leave it."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u147	Then I should go into consultation with the institutions. For the time being, I have no signals that students will make a completely different assessment after this week if the Chamber agrees to the bill. I should know if there will be complaints at institutions. That should be done in the very short term. If so, I will talk to the institutions and to DUO. In the case of DUO, the notification must take place. I have to have signals for that first, and I don't have them for the time being. It is also only recently that the notification took place. I come to the questions about special groups for which the Chamber has asked for special attention. I'll start the group with the cohort guarantee. Then I will deal with the multi-annual masters and the students with disabilities. The agreement in all these themes is the question: what are we going to do about groups that may know vulnerabilities? First, the cohort guarantee. In the case of a reform measure such as the study advance, the date of introduction is always precarious. You always have to create a transition. Students have been using the basic grant for the last 30 years, and that will not be possible anymore. After careful consideration, it was decided to introduce the bill with cohort guarantee. Cohort guarantee is common in study funding and changes in higher education, but certainly not self-evident. For example, Rutte I's longest study measure was introduced for all students without a cohort guarantee, regardless of whether they had a chance to avoid excessive study delay at all. That was explicitly reviewed by the judge during a court case brought by the LSVb, the ISO and the LKvV and was found to be in agreement. According to the judge, even that transition, which was not covered by a cohort guarantee, was acceptable. I have already stressed that I believe that the student can also contribute, in addition to the great contribution of the government itself, precisely to improve the quality of education for all students. This principle is reflected in the chosen form of the transitional right. There are communicating vessels. As transition law works out better for sitting students, the ability to invest quickly in the quality of education decreases. As a result, future students are worse off. The proposed transitional right will create three groups: a group that will not receive a basic grant at all, a group that has now and in the past received a basic grant for both the Bachelor's and Master's programmes and a group that will no longer receive a basic grant for part of the programme. With the design of the cohort guarantee, which I will come back to later, the government assumes its responsibility to the extent that the current students, the future students and the quality of higher education as a whole are at stake. That this is not a nice message for a wo-bachelor student who no longer gets a basic scholarship for a master's programme, I fully realize. However, I believe that this fits very well with the wider responsibility of the student for our society. I understand the concerns in the Chamber about students who would no longer take a master's degree because of this bill. Moreover, I have no signs that this would actually happen. They, unlike the group of MBO students I just mentioned, have already seen the meaning of studying during their Bachelor's programme. These students no longer need to be persuaded to study and to take the step to higher education. Perhaps they need to be convinced and well supervised to make the step from bachelor to master. To students who may hesitate, I would say that an additional year of education can be of great benefit to them. The master's year gives you the opportunity to deepen yourself based on the broader knowledge you have gained over the years before, to zoom in on a part of it and thus work on your own distinctiveness. Just with that specialist enrichment next to a broader knowledge base you can enrich and profile yourself. This will increase labour market opportunities. In addition, a master's programme offers opportunities to gain further research experience and to orient yourself on a possible academic career. In which sector you end up, research skills and experience are of value everywhere. Finally, in the Netherlands, an additional education year generates 7% to 9% more income. I come to the questions of the Chamber. Mrs. Sent asked me what I'm doing to keep convincing this group. The Bachelor's students who may still be hesitant, I would like to accompany them as well as possible so that they do not only decide for financial reasons not to go to Master's degree. Earlier, I told the Chamber that I would speak with the deans, the study advisors and the LOB staff in the MBO about the flow from MBO to HBO. Now I admit that I will also organise this consultation with the deans of the Bachelor's programmes. I will also ask them how we can ensure that students with financial questions, doubts or concerns can contact a person or a point of contact at the institution or in the region. In addition, I ensure that all Bachelor's students receive a letter describing the changes that the study advance entails. Legal certainty, equality of law and the actual expectations of the target group are particularly important when it comes to what form the transitional right should take. The ultimate form of transitional law is that nothing changes for the present generation. That's what I just said. Immediate action is the other extreme. Eventually, it comes down to a balancing of interests. Since questions have been raised about legal certainty and equality of law, I shall go into them a little more in detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u148	It is a pity that we must allow these considerations to be taken into account in this debate on higher education. The Minister must now make an effort to ensure that students who have completed a Bachelor's programme also take a master's degree. It should be obvious in our country that our policy is to get as many students as possible to obtain a master's degree. When people have to make debts through the loan system, it is obvious that consideration comes after three years whether one wants to go further or whether one is trying to enter the labour market. What do we do about students who may have spent four years on their bachelor's programme and borrowed for four years? For them, the hesitation becomes even greater. It is a pity that we have to discuss whether it is still natural for students to take a master's degree once they have done the bachelor's degree. In addition, the minister talks about a year, as if the master always lasts only a year. We have already heard a number of examples of masters who are two or three years old in this debate. In that case, the weight of the costs will only increase in the consideration of whether we want to continue. It is a pity that we have to have this discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u149	I have also indicated that I do not have any signals for the moment that students with a bachelor's degree would no longer go to the master's phase because of the study advance. Since there have been questions about it, I have said that I will inform you again. However, I am more concerned about MBOs who do not yet know higher education than about Bachelor's students who have to make the transition to the Master's degree. It also has to do with solidarity with the generations who are fully affected by the study advance. If we were to protect the current generation of students who are going to take a master's degree even more and clear of the study advance, it would take longer for the next generation of bachelor students to benefit from the investment in the quality of education.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u150	The minister says she didn't get those signals. I did get those signals. We received letters from Delft University of Technology about a three-year master's degree. They're very worried there. I was at my own faculty at Erasmus University yesterday. One after the other clings to me and says: this is really going to mean something; people will hesitate to continue studying. So I did get those signals, just from the workplace. Surely the minister couldn't have gotten past them either?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u151	No, but they concern to a large extent the multi-annual masters. I have just indicated that I will deal with this later.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u152	Those signals aren't just about multi-annual masters. They're about the choice to continue their studies, from the Bachelor's degree to the Master's degree phase.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u153	The discussion we are having here is whether bachelor and master are one inseparable programme or two parts. Look at the proposals of the Rutte I cabinet, which consisted of VVD and CDA, for the introduction of a loan system for the master phase. You can argue that the master phase is another part of the programme. I shall come back to that in more detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u154	Should the Bachelor's Cans indicate that they also need additional funding to guide Bachelor's students to the Master's degree programme, is the Minister prepared to provide funding for this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u155	Yeah, if they can argue that very well. Of course, I have to find those financial resources somewhere. I also need to know whether this is a temporary or a structural measure. If it were a structural measure, it would be based on the resources that we could invest in the quality of education. I actually think it is the job of deans at universities and colleges of applied sciences to take account of changing situations themselves. I think it's easier because we can find those bachelor students easier. We know where they are. We know which group it is. We'll locate it. Perhaps we can ask mentors and teachers not only to do so, but also very directly to pay attention to it. We can also remind them of the right information. There are two main rules on cohort guarantee. The main rule is that all students in higher education who are now in a training course may complete that training while retaining the basic grant. We make a distinction between the bachelor and the master. The main rule two is that the basic grant already granted is not taken up ex post. With regard to Rule 1, I would like to point out that first of all, it is important that seated students should be allowed to complete their training under the rules that were in place when they started that training. This raises the question of what is meant by training. This question has often been asked in the drafting of the legislative proposal. This is about the tension between what students have legal rights and what students actually count on and how this is experienced in society. In the design the training is specified as that part of the study for which a diploma can be obtained. This means that the cohort guarantee distinguishes between a bachelor's programme and a master's programme. That doesn't just happen. The distinction between the Bachelor's and Master's programmes is based on the 1999 Bologna Declaration, in which it was agreed at European level to work towards a joint university education area with comparable degrees and diplomas. The different countries would each work on a system with a first education cycle of at least three years, completed by a bachelor's degree, and a second education cycle, ending in a master's degree. This has made it possible to increase mobility and exchange between students. In the Netherlands this appointment took shape in the introduction of the bachelor and master system, with the bachelor and master as independent courses, each with their own diploma. In 2002, this was laid down in the Higher Education and Scientific Research Act. This was also laid down in the Study Financing Act 2000, albeit in a slightly less visible way. The reason for this was that this was the way DUO, at the time the IB Group, could handle the changes. In the following years, these structural changes have been gradually transformed into matching education programmes. Only ten years after this adjustment was the education so far that in 2012 the rule "first your bachelor's degree and then your master's degree" could be introduced. Last year we also abolished the mandatory flow master in the Quality in Diversity of Higher Education Act. Professor Kees Schuyt has argued that this introduction, despite the long history that I outlined, would have happened unthoughtfully, because in the Netherlands we have introduced the Anglo-Saxon structure but not the intensive educational culture that goes with it in the Anglo-Saxon countries. Although I myself would not quickly use the word "unthought-out" in this context, I think that his observation of the educational culture does contain a core of truth. The investment impulse that makes this bill possible is intended precisely for better and more intensive higher education for all, i.e. for an intensive educational culture that you can maximise in those three years. The second main rule indicates that the basic grant already granted is not taken off afterwards. For an HBO-bachelor course there is currently a total of four years' entitlement to basic scholarship. For a wo-bachelor course that is three years and for a one-year wo-master that is one year. Students who are lagging behind during their wo-bachelor course are already receiving the year of basic scholarship for the Master's programme in their fourth bachelor's year. For these students, the fourth year basic grant is still converted into a gift when the master's degree is obtained in good time. Students who have been delayed in their Bachelor's programme because they have done a year of administration deserve special attention in this context. I'll come back to that group later. I have already said that it is really about balance and coherence between legal certainty, equality and care. Mrs Sent, Mr Engels, Mr Essers and others asked for legal certainty. That legal certainty is laid down in the First Protocol of the ECHR. The question of whether this bill meets this requirement is mainly about the legal expectation that you could translate into a claim. I want to be clear about this: the proposed cohort guarantee does not prejudice this. Students retain the right to the basic grant during the nominal duration of their training. It is important that study funding is awarded per year. Each year it is reviewed whether a student still meets the current conditions. That's not new; that's already true. Based on the statutory system of annual awards, a study advance for all students could even be introduced per academic year 2015/2016, without further cohort guarantee. There is therefore also a legitimate legal basis for this. However, the bill deliberately does not regulate this in order to take into account the existing reasonable expectations of students and the related care. Moreover, care is also an important element in the balance of interests required by the ECHR. Then I'll get to the equality of justice. There is an equal rule for all students. Each student can complete his current education while retaining the basic scholarship. This rule applies to HBO-bachelor students, wo-bachelor students and wo-master students. However, Hbo and wo-bachelor training courses are designed in such a different way that an Hbo-bachelor usually lasts four years and a wo-bachelor takes three years. In the current system, therefore, four and three years of basic grant are available. Perhaps in abundance, I note that there is already a difference in secondary education. Havisten goes on to higher education a year earlier than vwo'ers. Both groups have as many years of education as they receive a Bachelor's degree. Also for current wo-master students, they can complete a one-year or multi-annual training while maintaining the basic grant. The same applies to HBO masters who are entitled to study funding under the current scheme. These are HBO masters in the socially relevant sectors of education and care. In other words, the proposed cohort guarantee does not undermine the principle of equality for current HBO and WO students. I come to talk about care and reasonable expectations. In addition to the legal claim, the actual expectations are also taken into account, as well as the overall balance of interests around the transitional right. When the current generation of students went to study, apparently there was a claim to four years of basic scholarship, which would be converted into a gift at certification for an HBO-bachelor or the whole of a wo-bachelor and a wo-master. Those who have never picked it very precisely could wrongly draw the conclusion that, regardless of the training, they will receive the basic grant for four years. However, I would like to stress that the bachelor and master are also different entities under the current rules. For only a wo-bachelor, the current student gets the basic grant for only three years, converted into a gift. The approach of the Bachelor's and Master's programmes as separate entities has been shared longer and wider. I have already pointed this out when it comes to proposals from previous Cabinets. I also note that the Council of State did not say anything about the cut in the assessment of both legislative proposals, and that, when examining the proposal for the master phase in the House of Representatives, the SGP Group, among others, has always given a very critical opinion on the proposed distinction. This subject has been the subject of discussion for a long time, but certainly in the past period, including and above all by students. The majority of students are aware of the proposed changes. There is therefore no longer any question of a very firm and justified expectation. This is also apparent, I say to Mr Essers, from the JOB, LAKS and FNV Jong's survey on the awareness of young people of the new regulations. This shows that 81.6% of current wo students are aware of the new regulations. My own zero measurement in June showed that around 90% of all Bachelor's students know that the study funding system is going to change. This also means that we have included in the award decisions received by students a preliminary notice to the effect that the rules may change and that this may have a bearing on new awards. In my view, this has given us enough clarity to make that distinction.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u156	I would like to thank the Minister for explaining why the cabinet has made this choice. This demonstrates a careful consideration of different principles. In essence, the Minister says that the choice made by the cabinet can be justified by the court; there are good arguments for that choice. That does not alter the fact that one could have made another choice. Many students have been robbed, because in their experience the bachelor and master are clearly linked together. For a lot of students it was a fact of life, and that is still so much so that in the fourth bachelor year they also had study funding. Of course, in that fourth year the study funding was seen on the master's programme, but it was assumed that this was the case. Then it was said at once: now there is the bill and the transitional law no longer sees the fourth year of study funding, because that is what the master sees. I understand what the Minister is saying. The judge also talked about the longest study measure, but it was finally withdrawn. The criticism of that measure, in my view, was that it was far too harsh, as there was no transitional right at all. At that time, however, there were consequences. We could have done the same in this case. It could have been said generously, as Mr Kuiper pointed out, that bachelor and master are very closely linked at the moment. When people choose to study, they also have the master phase in their head. They know at some point the practice of the fourth year in which a grant is still received. So we could have chosen to do so. Many students have been robbed by the not always clear guidelines given in the information. I have also looked at them myself and found that they were often subject to a number of explanations. In fact, the Minister says that no other choice was made because it would cost too much money on balance, which would make it possible to invest less in educational quality. Does the Minister agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u157	No. I have dealt with this quite extensively. These are arguments of solidarity and the financial aspect. What do we ask of current students, who are already studying, and what do we ask of the new generation of students? That is true, but legal arguments are also included. The same applies to justification arguments. It is about the balance between the expectations of the current students and the importance of the quality impulse that the Veerman Committee advocated. In the end, it is an excellent consideration. What we are ultimately doing with this is a political decision, but in my view that is a decision that can be defended. In the proposals of the Rutte I cabinet, with the long-student measure, there was no cohort guarantee at all. It was not part of the Rutte I cabinet's proposal to introduce a loan system for the master phase. Against this background, I am surprised that the CDA now has questions about the cohort guarantee contained in this bill. In my view, it is much more flexible than anything in previous proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u158	Quite apart from the possibility that we too can learn what is called a moving insight. The moment you start studying, you know that there is nominally four years for that study and that you are not supposed to spend much longer on it, because this could have consequences. I find that different from the situation in which you start studying and assume that you are going to do a bachelor's degree and a master's degree because you choose a university degree. I do not dispute that the choice made by the cabinet would be legally sustainable; I am merely saying that another choice could have been made, which would have been better suited to the student's sense of justice. I believe that legal certainty should also cost something.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u159	This would be at the expense of the generation of students who will be studying from September. It is precisely because of the cohort guarantee that it takes longer for funds to be released. Only if a student obtains his or her diploma within the ten-year period will the loan become a gift. The cohort guarantee for two courses, a bachelor's degree programme and a master's degree programme, long delays the investment for the group of students who already start on 1 September 2015 and loses the entire basic grant. I find that difficult to explain to this generation of students, given the legal developments and the commitments we have made in the longer-term Bologna process, which we have laid down in legislation. I am thinking of the Wet quality in diversity. Taking into account the new generation of students, I think it is certainly reasonable to give shape to the matter as we propose. I would also like to say that I am very pleased that we have been able to agree with the institutions that for the first few years they themselves are making funds available to the group of students who cannot yet fully benefit from the funds released from the study advance. This also increases the support for the measure. We must make a contribution to this. This is how we do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u160	I insist it's a matter of making choices. The Minister is now creating a contradiction between the current generation of students and the future generation of students. What we are giving to the present generation, we cannot give to the future generation. It's a matter of choices the cabinet makes. Once again, legal certainty may also cost something. I'm making another choice, which is perfectly legitimate. I believe that the cabinet should make a different choice with regard to the allocation and the resources available to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u161	Again, it is the balance between legal certainty and solidarity with the new generation that will be studying from September 2015. I think that, in the end, we have made a careful but fair assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u162	Is the Minister still considering the group of students who have already built up delays during the Bachelor's?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u163	I think I have already gone into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u164	In that case, it is good to ask the following question about the legitimate expectations of students who have chosen to do a year of administration during the Bachelor's phase, assuming that they could use the fourth year of study funding in their bachelor's phase. Frankly, I find it most difficult for that group to explain that we are making that assessment. I can well imagine the arguments. This also applies to the basic idea that you get the cohort guarantee for one programme, but that you don't get it when you start a new phase. I get that. I also understand very well that the intention was: three years before the Bachelor's phase and one year before the Master's phase. I understand the reasoning. However, I find it difficult to explain to the aforementioned group of students who, during the Bachelor's phase, opted for a board year, assuming that they would receive the basic grant for four years, that their expectations were not legitimate. Can the Minister provide a more firmer basis for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u165	Again, the distinction between bachelor and master remains. Students who have already followed a management year are currently receiving their fourth scholarship year, but this award follows from the implementation systems. That fourth year is, as it were, attached to the third basic scholarship year, unless the student himself asks to suspend the basic scholarship. The fourth year basic grant is actually intended for the master's programme and is only converted into a gift if the master's programme is actually achieved. This first group has already used up its rights. They will not be taken away afterwards, on the basis of the main rule I have just outlined.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u166	I understand the accuracy of the main rule. The Minister himself says that the implementing authority automatically sees that fourth year as an extension of the third year. The basic grant is also automatically continued in the fourth year, unless it is extended itself. You can say that the student has the legitimate expectation that the fourth basic scholarship year is just part of it? The choice for a management year, because you get the fourth year, then turns out very acidic afterwards. The question is whether, from the student's point of view, there was no legitimate expectation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u167	This also applies to the fact that a distinction has been made between the Bachelor's and Master's phases during the award process. The communication from DUO indicates that there could be changes. For this group it is linked to the master phase for implementing technical reasons, but this does not stop the distinction between the bachelor and the master phase. For them too, there is a bachelor and master phase. A transitional arrangement can never go smoothly, but all in all I think this is justified. I will come back later to the particular individual cases, but for those cases we obviously have the profiling fund. I would add that we should not burden this unnecessarily, but the profiling fund is often used for students with administrative tasks. I will come back to this because I have taken this issue with me in another target group that many Members have talked about, namely students with disabilities who often also call on the profiling fund. For the group Mr Ganzevoort is talking about, it is temporary, because it only exists for one year, so to speak. After that, the problem doesn't arise anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u168	We are talking about people with a year of government, but I have also mentioned other examples in my term. These are people who have been working for a few months on their one-after-last year and find out that the rules of the game are being changed. I would ask the Minister to look at that again. This group cannot be so large that it will therefore take so much longer for this quality investment to take place in education. The Minister states that this is really only about implementing technical problems. We must be able to find a solution to this problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u169	If you did this for all the Bachelor's students who are going to take a master's degree, it would cost almost 90 million. This would be particularly obsessive in the early years when the study advance is going to produce substantial results. Those are the years 2018 and 2019. I think that's really undesirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u170	That's not what I'm asking. I ask the Minister to look at students who have been delayed for a year for legitimate reasons. They have assumed that they could continue their studies, within the old rules, but they are now faced with a change in the rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u171	This can only be about individual cases where institutions can make agreements with students. I refer again to the profiling fund. I indicated in detail that there really is a difference between the Bachelor's and the Master's part of the programme. I do not think it is right to make very far-reaching agreements about this. I think it is fair to ask this from the point of view of balance and solidarity with the new group of students.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u172	I appeal once again to the social sense of this minister, who, according to his own words, is still part of the social party of the Netherlands, as I heard at the last congress, to look at this group specifically. For legitimate reasons, they have a year's study delay, but now suddenly they are confronted with the situation that the rules of the game change. This group cannot be so large that it undermines solidarity with the group of new students.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u173	Then I come to the question of what is a legitimate reason. We are now debating a law. If Mrs Gerkens wants this, she must put it very precisely. In other cases, you need to check whether someone should get an extra year for whatever reason. In the case of students with study limitations, we have made agreements on this and there are arrangements for that. Of this group I cannot say that in general. It also depends on what management work has been carried out. So I refer to the individual possibility of making agreements between institutions and students from the profiling fund.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u174	I call on the Minister, on behalf of my group, not to go on this path. A legitimate reason is that it is not enforceable. That is one of the important objectives of this Chamber. A lot of students are slowing down. Then what is legitimate and what isn't? That's a very relative concept. What matters is whether a commitment has ever been made to the student, or whether there has ever been an expectation that the student thinks he can derive a right from. There's someone who can judge that right. That's a judge. That's where the issue has been. The judge doesn't see that right. You can also say that students who are now in Group 3 might think that they might get the old student funding. So I call on the Minister not to go on this path. It does not seem feasible to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u175	Clear. In terms of equality of law, legal certainty and reasonable expectations, we have made a balanced proposal. I fully agree that when it comes to "legitimate" groups, you need to know exactly who you are talking about when you have a debate on this under a law. Indeed, there are many reasons why you can delay your studies. I'm joining the multi-annual masters. A lot of questions have been asked about that. I understand that many questions have arisen as a result of a letter from various study associations. I would like to respond briefly to this because there are many assumptions in it which, in my opinion, have led to misunderstandings. I would also like to say that I naturally appreciate the fact that these study associations have taken the trouble to put their concerns on paper. I'll invite them to a conversation soon. Again, it is not just a question of what we consider reasonable, fair or politically desirable. It is also a question of knowing the correct principles of the law. A misconception which I have heard from several spokesmen today is that the debt could amount to €40,000. That figure is from Mr Hoekstra's speech. We have also discussed this in detail in the House of Representatives. That claim of €40,000 is pertinently incorrect. This claim is based on old plans which do not include the increase in the supplementary grant. It is also not taken into account that the card will remain in existence. If we look at the amounts of debt mentioned in the letter, they are unrealistic. The starting point is a debt amount of €18,000, €25,000 or €31,000 for a five-, six- or seven-year study. At the moment, a third of the students complete their studies without guilt. Of the students with a debt, 55% have a debt that is less than €15,000. Of course, there are higher amounts of debt. If you take a multi-annual master's degree, the amount will be a little higher. The amounts from €18,000 to €31,000 are really unrealistic. I think we should start from what we now know about the average debt. Of the students who borrow it is €15,000. Two-thirds of the students borrow. A third of the students don't borrow. If you take all that together, you have an average student debt of €10,000 and not of €40,000. It is also argued that the betas are more affected by their studies being heavier and need to borrow more. The Second Monitor Policy Measures show that in the natural and engineering sectors around 40% of students borrow each year, but in most other sectors a higher percentage of students do so. Of the students language and culture, for example, lends almost 50%. That also contradicts the argument. The second assumption is that the card will be undressed, but it will not be undressed. It's gonna last. In fact, MBO students also get an O.V. card. Students don't need to borrow for the O.V. card. This also changes the question of what to borrow. Of course, I understand the concerns of the study associations and of this Chamber. The House of Representatives has also expressed concerns about the multi-annual masters. It is not just that we have finally decided not to take a compensatory measure for this. During the agreement we concluded on the study advance, it was agreed to examine the impact of the reform of student funding on multi-annual Master's programmes, because there were concerns among the four parties who made the agreements on the study advance and at the Lower House. We didn't go ice cream in one night. However, we have said that the results of the investigation should be obtained before the legislative proposal in the Lower House would be dealt with, so that we could still adjust, for example in the form of a compensation scheme, should the investigation show that the expected effects would be detrimental to the influx. We've had SEO do research. This showed that measures for multi-annual masters are not necessary. That's not my conclusion, it's the conclusion from research. Indeed, it is expected that the impact of the increase in the own contribution will be smaller for this specific group than for all students in general. SEO also says that students at a multi-annual master's programme usually have a strong intrinsic motivation for attending their studies, more than other students at regular master's programmes. That is not my conclusion either; this is based on research. The hypothetical situation, which the study associations took as an example in their letter, i.e. that students opt for a one-year master's programme, is therefore contrary to what emerges from research. Even if financial arguments were to play a role, the research office argues, they would not be strong enough to lead to a negative decision vis-à-vis the multi-annual masters. Students in a multi-annual master's programme do not only incur costs, but also benefit longer from the benefits of higher education. These benefits can be material in nature. For example, SEO states that every additional year that a student receives training results in an average of 7 to 9% additional wage income. The benefits can also be of an intangible nature. The students taking multi-annual master's programmes are longer at a knowledge institution and therefore increase their knowledge and skills in relation to other students. They know how to work on their distinctiveness. Moreover, they often have better links with the labour market. In addition, the SEO study shows that initial salaries and labour market prospects are favourable in most of the multi-annual Master's programmes. The refund scheme ensures that every student can at least meet his payment obligation after graduation. When a student is unexpectedly out of a job, he does not have to pay back, or only limited. I believe that the introduction of the study advance will have no significant adverse effect on the entry of students into multi-annual Master's programmes. With the increase in the supplementary grant for the students with lower-income parents, the retention of the O.V. card and the relaxation of the refund scheme, we ensure this wide accessibility. The same goes for this group. Mr Essers asked about the relationship between the study advance and the technical pact and the government's measures to combat the shortage of teachers. Mr Ganzevoort also mentioned the teachers. We have no evidence that the study advance will lead to negative consequences for the influx into multi-annual master's programmes. So I see no danger to the technical pact either.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u176	This is a contradiction to me, after all. You're invoking investigation. That is, of course, research that has now been carried out. Of course, students in a three-year master are now intrinsically motivated to do so. Even now, of course, you already have the question of how long you want to study and how long you want to borrow. You will also have to be intrinsically motivated to enter that trajectory. There is no doubt that, in a new situation, the trade-off will be heavier. That consideration is made against a one-year-old or a two-year-old master. Can I do a study that lasts one year or lasts three years? If that's the choice, can't anyone feel that this will weigh heavily on every student? Then the difference is pretty big. You say now: they are studies where you can earn it back. But there have also been examples of studies today that are not so easy. Mr Ganzevoort mentioned the preacher's training. Think of HBO masters, too. If you have been in a bachelor-hbo-training course for four or sometimes five years, another course, an HBO-master, is not so obvious anymore. I feel intuitive that something is not right in the reasoning.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u177	Then I'm gonna go back to the beginning one more time. Even then the feeling, the emotion and the intuition were: is this going well for the multi-annual masters? What did we do? We have asked a research firm to check whether that intuition is correct or whether there are other arguments to support it. I rely on the expertise of the research firm. They look with an independent look from a broad international database. They indicate that for the time being, for the reason I have just mentioned, there are no reasons to worry about it. Then you have to ask yourself whether, when dealing with a bill, you allow your intuition to lead or the arguments that a research report provides. That doesn't change the fact that I'm gonna follow what's going on. The House of Representatives also asked about this. I say to Mr Ganzevoort that, of course, I see that there can be a difference between different types of training. To be honest, I am not thinking primarily of technical training, because I think students of these courses will find a job very quickly. I am thinking of teacher education and research masters, as well as preacher training. I say to Mr Ganzevoort that, of course, we will also involve theological ministerial training in monitoring. Here too, monitoring is not another word to put you on a side path and satisfy you. I'm really gonna be monitoring things seriously. This applies to the inflow, the flow and the step to multi-annual masters.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u178	I was not specifically concerned with theological training, even though I happen to know it up close. I noticed they were missing from the list of multi-annual masters, which is why I mentioned them for a moment. In monitoring, I am concerned that we are not just measuring the flat influx. Because of the motivation, I don't expect this to have very big effects. I am more concerned that we should also consider qualitatively what it means to these groups of students if they are confronted with this new system. How do they handle borrowing? Does that affect the question of how they get more income, etc.? I would not just like to know the influx, but as much as possible about how they ultimately act on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u179	I assure you that we will also monitor quality. I will say once again, including Mr Essers, that I cannot state exactly when I am going to act, at what rate. This depends on the training involved, but also on the reasons and consequences for the labour market. Then I need a qualitative analysis, which Mr Ganzevoort is asking for. At the request of the House of Representatives, we take this with us. I refer once more to the Klever c.s. motion. and the motion-Van Meenen c.s. I take this point very seriously and I will also send my response to these motions to the First Chamber. Mr. Ganzevoort also asked about the medical students. With regard to labour market perspective and conscious choice of study, these are students with what SEO calls a "very intrinsic" motivation. Research also shows that they have an increased income after their studies. However, these students also have a heavy burden, although they may be able to allocate their time somewhat flexibly, by earning some money between the different universities, if they so wish. For these students, what also applies to other students is that they may be able to use savings. I will look again, in consultation with my colleagues from VWS, to see if there is any reason to pay extra attention to the specific situation of the societies. Finally, there is Mr Kuiper's question about the one-year master's programme. He linked this to the fact that in this way the proposal would not contribute to differentiation but rather to uniformity. I have to say, I don't recognize that at all. After all, precisely the investments we are making, let us be consistent with the arguments of the Veerman report, to which Mr Kuiper himself referred. That is precisely about looking for much more differentiation, a system with a variety of educational offerings. We are talking here all the time about the multi-annual masters, but that education offer is, in its entirety, much more diverse. We have an HBO-bachelor, an HBO-master, an associate degree in HBO, a three-year education for vwo'ers. They all contribute to the differentiation in education. We are also trying to strengthen the regional profile. Cooperation between educational institutions, other knowledge institutions, municipal administrators and industry contributes to this. The way institutions deal with new methods, digitisation, etc. contributes precisely to differentiation. To be honest, I do not know why the measures relating to the master would hinder this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u180	What I mean by "unifying" or "flattening" is as follows. If the message to students is "the loan you get will have to be earned back at some point, it is an investment in your future that you will have to earn back" it will have an effect on the choice of study and also on the content of that choice. I expect, in the long term, the effects of swine-cycling: everyone is going to do a study which is expected to yield a social return, because it can provide a good job. On the contrary, it has a negative impact on the choice of studies which are now a bit the finest of science: small languages, special studies, small studies which will soon be said to be: do not choose them, because they will not be able to earn dry bread. That's what I'm talking about. It runs counter to the idea of differentiation. You're impoverishing and disrupting the science building.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u181	I'm really throwing that conclusion away from me. These investments represent more than 20% of the budget we now have for higher education. So that means you can really make a huge investment. This includes small courses, as well as language courses. In fact, if you want to shape the assignment that many of you have mentioned, namely everything that can be summarized under the word "bildung," you also need those training courses, perhaps in other courses; think of the philosophy of science or the historical consciousness that Mr Engels so well appointed. This means that these training courses are very valuable. I also believe that the difference between the current situation and the future is greatly increased. It's not like students don't borrow now. It's not like they're getting everything as a gift. Most of the students borrow. Luckily, they're borrowing consciously. In the new situation we are going to borrow a little more, in return for which we are getting a strong improvement in the quality of education. Mr President, I am going to...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u182	Very briefly, Mr Kuiper.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u183	I believe the effort on the part of the universities, but I believe that you are setting in motion a mechanism on the part of the students which will stop them from getting there. There will be an incentive that will allow you to want what you indicated, but that simply will not happen, because students will not choose it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u184	Then I really wouldn't know why students would choose now. We see changes in students' choice of study, with less choice for the small languages. By the way, we see that students often opt for a study in Chinese and less often for a study in French. This is part of a broader social development. I do not want to dictate to students what to choose, precisely because I think they should choose with their hearts. They can also think about what it means next. That's why I created a study guide. In it a student can read what you can become later with a certain education and what you can earn with it. This way students can consciously make a choice. If you go to art school, you might become a world-famous concert pianist and you're going to make a lot of money, but you might also become azzp'er and a piano teacher. There's nothing wrong with that, but it's good to bring that too, as long as it doesn't say, "You can never go to the conservatory" if that's what your heart goes for. So, frankly, I am less afraid than Mr Kuiper in this area, but we shall see. Again, I monitor not to produce paper but precisely to learn these lessons. Mr. Chairman. I'm here to talk about the group of students with disabilities. First of all, I would like to emphasise what is changing and what remains for these students, because in this case too, the impression is sometimes given that there will suddenly be no more facilities at all. In the current system there is a basic grant, an additional scholarship, an O.V. card and a single parent allowance. All this together is called the performance fair. What changes is changing in the performance fair: there will be an additional scholarship instead of the basic scholarship; the right of residence and the one-parent allowance remain. Whatever remains for students with disabilities is the extension of the performance grant, i.e. the whole, under medical conditions. What remains is the extension of the period of diploma under special circumstances, medical and non-medical. What remains is the conversion of the performance grant into a grant in structural conditions such as disability or chronic illness, which occur within the diploma period. Whatever remains is a new claim to study funding for a disability acquired or worsening during the study or for a chronic illness manifesting during the study. What is not and will not happen now is the €1,200 waiver when the performance fair is extended under medical conditions. This is because we are abolishing the basic grant and in return we are organizing the one-off remission of €1,200. In addition, the claim to the current provision and the profiling fund of an institution remains. That fund is specifically intended for this particular group. The scheme with regard to the profiling fund shall not change. All the target groups who are lagging behind in their studies, I would like to say this once again, including Mr Ganzevoort, because of special circumstances, are still entitled to a subsidy from the profiling fund. These may include, for example, students with a chronic illness or disability, directors, members of a participation council or in case of pregnancy. In this context, Mr Ganzevoort asked whether the size was adequate and whether we should not look more closely at the nature and extent of the problem. I admit that I am taking this with me when I respond to the Mohandis c.s. motion. from the House of Commons. I'll see if there's more to it than we have right now. I would like to add that it is up to the institution to determine how high and for what length the support from the profiling fund for a student is in the end. However, as I said, Mr Mohandis asked in his motion to consider whether we should set new frameworks and whether we have a real picture of the fees paid by individual institutions from the profiling fund. I'll carry out that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u185	Are the students fully involved in this joint conversation about how?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u186	They are very strongly involved in this. I agree that I will look critically at the adequacy of the proposed provisions. I will therefore immediately check whether the profiling fund is an adequate safety net for special situations by nature and size and whether the institutions are using the safety nets properly. Should it become clear that this is not the case, we will look for a structural solution. I do not want to pass the problems on to the institutions so easily. They should not only respond to students in special situations, but also, above all, invest in the quality of education. If there is no need for a change, we will make good administrative arrangements with the institutions regarding the mobilisation of the fund. However, if there is any reason to do so, I will take more action. Perhaps it is good to look at the specific situation of students with disabilities, because they do not need to be compensated for one-two-three. How does a possible remission work practically? At the time the student expects to slow down due to a special circumstance, he must report this to his student dean. If, in the opinion of the student dean, the student cannot complete the course within the duration of the course due to a disability, the dean signs the student's request. The student then submits the request for renewal and remission to DUO together with his dean. If DUO has accepted the application, the waiver is offset against the student's debt after obtaining the diploma. This is for the students who start their bachelor's programme from September 2015 at the earliest after three years. The profiling fund also requires a student who appears to be delayed due to circumstances to report to his dean. Thereafter, as with the application for renewal and remission, he must submit a formal request for reimbursement from the profiling fund. That process differs from one institution to another, but most of the time the board of directors takes up such an application. The student may appeal against this decision to the College of Appeal for Higher Education. Subsequently, the student will in most cases receive the allowance from the profiling fund after the end of his performance grant. This too is for upcoming bachelor students at the earliest after three years. That's crucial, because it gives us the opportunity to focus fully on what's really happening over the next two or three years, on the effects for that first generation of bachelor students. In those years I will talk to the deans, the colleges and the universities, because they will determine in practice whether there is any actual delay in study in individual cases. They are therefore the link between the student, DUO and participation and are therefore best informed of the effects of the measures on this group. I can follow their signals from next year's study. I will also invite the Disability + Study Expertise Centre. I will have these talks every six months over the next two years. Furthermore, I will monitor how many students benefit from these facilities and for how long for both forgiveness and other facilities and the profiling fund. In the case of the profiling fund, I will also monitor how high the fee is and focus my research on students with a disability or chronic illness. I will look into how we can jointly get the necessary information on the profiling fund. I do not want to burden the institutions with additional administrative burdens by including additional requirements in the annual report guidelines. I expect them to keep track internally of the groups and the level of remuneration they pay. Again, I will draw conclusions from this monitoring if necessary and I would like to share it with your Chamber, apart from the House of Representatives. Mr. Ganzevoort asked about the free administration of tuition fees. I think I've already given the answer to that. In addition to this, I would like to say that there is no access to education and exams in tuition fees, but there are other facilities that may be important for the administration or other activities that the institution wants to facilitate. These students can therefore have access to buildings, laboratories, workshops and computer facilities. It is up to the institution to decide exactly how that is done.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u187	I understand that this is about the extent to which they call on the profiling fund. One of the questions I get from the student organizations is why the door cannot be opened further so that they can also use the loan system.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u188	Sorry, what's the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u189	I understand that the question from that group is also why they cannot use the loan system during that year.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u190	They are not registered, but they can rely on compensation from the profiling fund. You have to be registered to qualify for the loan system in order to be able to borrow, but they're writing themselves out. That is not necessary, because there are also a lot of students who combine a board year with a study. A management year, depending on what you do, of course doesn't have to take up your entire working time. If you are no longer registered, you are no longer entitled to study funding. That is and that remains the rule as far as I am concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u191	But by staying registered, could that be solved?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u192	Yeah, but they'll have to pay tuition too, of course. If they unsubscribe, they may call on the profiling fund. They cannot have access to education and exams without tuition, but they can have access to many other facilities which may be of interest to students with an administrative function. Mr Engels asked about the large differences between institutions in the award of management grants. I agree with Mr Engels that it is important for students to be facilitated when they contribute to the academic community. However, I also believe that tailor-made work should be possible. After all, not every administrative function requires the same thing. This also means that institutions may differ in the award of government grants. I do not think that in itself is very bad or worrying. It is a question of ensuring that the grant is in line with the work required. That is why participation has the right of assent in the design of the profiling fund, so that students can co-operate. By the way, in the letter to your Chamber in December 2013, I indicated that, together with the student organisations, it is very important that institutions increase the awareness of the profiling fund among students. The institutions have indicated that they will work on this. They will improve information on the profiling fund on their websites and involve the participation council more actively. I also take this information with me on the Mohandis motion on the framework. This is also relevant in order to shape the information.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u193	How many of those packages do you have left?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u194	Well, a lot of it. All this is still in the wake of special groups, which your Members have all asked questions about. This is the student's legal status. Then I have a lot of questions about the quality of education and about finances.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u195	I'm looking at the clock a little bit anyway. Maybe you could do it in an hour.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u196	I'm gonna try. The legal status of the student is of great importance and must also be safeguarded. Mr Ganzevoort and Mr Engels said that it should be particularly transparent. I agree with them. The WHW therefore includes the rights and obligations of students in a wide range of fields. I refer to the profiling fund, participation and the appropriate legal protection regime. The examination regulations also describe how the training has been set up, what the purpose is and what the method of examination is. Mr Ganzevoort is right to say that this is changing, but rights for students are certain. We have to keep working on this. In recent years, we have overcome shortcomings. The 2010 Enhanced Control Act strengthened the internal and external judicial process and took important steps to promote the independence and expertise of the Examination Board. The 2013 Quality Guarantees Act stipulates that the OER must also include the actual design of the education, so that students know where they stand even better. We're never done, and maybe we can always do better. It is therefore important to continue to pay attention to the development of the legal status of students. That remains a point of attention. If there are shortcomings, we need to address them. I know that the ISO has recently written a bottleneck note on the student's legal status. This includes not only subjects and cases such as the provision of information to students, guidance and assessment, but also the award of board grants and the bachelor's medical assistance. That leads to different actions. The case of medical assistance is solved in collaboration with the Minister of VWS. The inspection is currently investigating the functioning of the Examination Board. In some cases, the judge has now concluded that it falls under the responsibility of students. As part of the evaluation of the Strengthening Control Act, Panteia has carried out research into legal protection. In particular, it is clear that there can be better findability and transparency, which Mr Engels also mentioned. This has been discussed in detail with the educational boards and the institutions are also more attentive to this. The Association of Colleges has also recently drawn its members' attention to this and the VSNU has verified that the websites of all universities describe the course of justice. In short, much has already been laid down in the WHW to ensure the legal status of the students and we will continue to work on that. Several spokesmen stressed the importance of the legal situation. GroenLinks has asked for that to be considered in full. The SP also points to cases of study delay beyond the blame of the students. That is where we need to take action and do more than just talk, as I would point out to Mr Engels. Because of the importance I attach to the student's legal status and given the signals given by the ISO in the bottlenecks note, we need to look closely at where possible shortcomings are and where improvements are possible. For example, the idea of an individual educational agreement has been put forward. For regular students, the rights and obligations are already laid down in the OER, but for flexible pathways, the education agreement may be an interesting tool, because things like the number of credits to be obtained may vary per individual. I would like to take this idea into account in the experiments on flexibility in part-time education. In addition, I am, of course, open to discussions with stakeholders and experts, such as professors of education law and experts from other sectors. Perhaps, as has been suggested, we can learn from the arrangements for the legal status of the patient in the healthcare sector, for example by making the various measures bundled accessible to students. The question then is whether this should be done in a separate law or whether it can help to make it more transparent and more insightful. I will talk to the educational umbrella, the student associations and the other experts to examine the desirability and the possibility of doing so, in particular in order to better define the legal position and fill any gaps in it. In the strategic agenda, which will come before the summer, I will return to that. I hope I have answered Mr Engels' questions about the differences and transparency. Mr Bruijn asked what exactly I understood in the main lines of the budget when it came to participation. The institutions have the freedom to decide which topics are included in the main lines of the budget. The design is also up to the institutions. Institutions do not always deal with the same thing. For example, the whole set of guidelines can take shape in a framework letter or be linked to the annual principles of allocation of resources. Institutions now sometimes do so in different ways. That is why we deliberately referred to it as 'the main lines' and did not say exactly how, because then institutions might have to change their financial accounts. The institution is therefore free, so that the system can be as closely linked as possible to the specific working methods and administrative processes of the individual institutions. We have looked at institutions which already have the right to vote on the main points. This is particularly the case in the HBO. Experiences are positive. They stress in particular the impact of this right on the early involvement of participation in financial and other considerations within the institution. Moreover, there was no indication of bureaucracy and delay in decision-making procedures, as I would point out to Mr Essers. I think that early engagement is important, because it can make a really good contribution to the right of assent. It is sometimes quite difficult for directors to get the right conversation with the participation bodies. If participation is involved early, it offers the best guarantee. If this is not the case with Mr Bruijn's administration and participation, then agreement on the main lines of the budget can be withheld. If there is a conflict, the law provides for a clear procedure. In the first instance, it is then up to management and co-determination to discuss this. If they do not come out together, the Supervisory Board can play an intermediate role. Should governance and participation still not come to fruition, a procedure is open to the Disputes Committee and ultimately appeal to the Enterprise Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u197	The Minister takes our concern about this almost entirely away. However, I would like to make two more points. If I understand correctly, the Minister says it's the institution that decides what a main line is. I understand that you can't completely shut this down, but I do wonder who decides that in the institution. Is that the participation itself, the administration, or do they do so in consultation with each other?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u198	In consultation with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u199	Is that left to the individual institution? The institution itself, of course, is not a person who determines that. The Minister explained the procedure very clearly. That procedure may take some time. What can the board formally do to make a going concern, so to ensure operational continuity? The procedure outlined by the Minister may take a few months. Is continuity guaranteed?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u200	Yes, because it cannot of course be that there can be no more lectures and working groups if participation and governance have a conflict. That is precisely why there is a procedure before the Disputes Committee. During that procedure, the Steering Board may therefore have a maximum of four twelfths of the amounts entered in the corresponding budget lines of the previous year. I assume that the institution has enough room to make the necessary expenditure and that the Disputes Committee has sufficient time to rule. Of course, the Committee on Disputes will also take account of the fact that it would be totally undesirable if there were no expenditure on education due to such a conflict. If a further appeal procedure is subsequently required in the Business Chamber, the Board may, during the procedure, have at its disposal the amounts estimated for this purpose in the budget and on which the Business Chamber judges. Also from what we learn from institutions that already apply this, I believe that we have found the centre here. It is important to involve participation, because I think students also have something to say about what quality of education means and where all these resources go. At the same time, we have also found a balance in order not to create ungovernable situations in which education could no longer be given. In this context, I would like to take up the question of the ESC Treaty. Compliance with international conventions is important. In drawing up this legislative proposal, the government has explicitly looked at the obligations arising from some relevant treaties. I refer to the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the EU, the First Protocol to the European Convention on Human Rights, the ECHR, the Twelfth Protocol thereto and, of course, compliance with the ESC Treaty. The Convention requires higher education "to be made equally accessible to all on the basis of competence through all appropriate measures and in particular through the gradual introduction of free education." Neither the EU Charter nor the ESC Treaty refer to the provision of free education. That really is a crucial distinction. It is more about the duty of care to ensure accessibility for anyone who has the ability to follow that education. The introduction of the study advance in making the law guarantees accessibility in several ways. I've already talked about that in detail. This is due, among other things, to the extension of travel facilities to minor MBO students for vocational education. This will be further developed for lifelong learning credit. In short, more groups are eligible and accessibility is only increased by these measures. The Netherlands has been asking students for contributions since the 1970s. It has increased contributions over time, which has happened without problems. Mrs Gerkens asked a question about the report of the Study and Information Centre. This has been done by a case study based on public documents of the social loan scheme master phase bill. There too, the social conditions were not included in the current legislative proposal. They concluded on that bill that it complies with the framework of the ESC Treaty, provided that a number of conditions are met. The proposal that we are discussing is in line with that, because we have taken this into account precisely in the design of the adjustments. I therefore have no reason to believe that there will be problems there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u201	I'm a Dutch teacher, but what's the difference between "free" and "free"? There is free education, which, according to this minister, is not free. Can she explain that to me?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u202	The ESC Treaty has been signed by many countries. In particular, it is a question of ensuring accessibility. If you were going to ask for exorbitant tuition fees, that would mean that education could be threatened. There is also a difference between primary, secondary and higher education. I note, on the basis of all the measures taken here in higher education over the past few decades, that a contribution of one's own can indeed be requested, provided that you make education accessible. This brings me back to the beginning of my speech: the primary responsibility lies with the government to ensure and make education accessible. The second responsibility is that you create a financial system in which students can make a good living each time. Against that background, you can ask a question from students.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u203	So the Minister actually says: it is there, but we interpret it in such a way that it does not have to be. The Minister believes that the current arrangement is good enough. How does she feel about the standstill principle, which means that the situation must not deteriorate? Of course, the Minister has introduced a social loan system, but there are indeed groups that are declining.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u204	But there are also groups that are making progress. All in all, accessibility is improved. Now you're paying 12% of your income, 4% later. Now pay 85% of the level of assistance, soon at 100%. I am also thinking of an increase in the supplementary grant. Deletion if you're not able to pay. This is an international legal treaty, so that you have to see how these principles are interpreted in international law. Then an essential distinction is made that is also recognised in the report to which you refer between free of charge and free of charge.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u205	Finally, Mrs Gerkens.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u206	I'm not the one using so many words. In contrast to all the improvements mentioned by the Minister, I can mention a lot of things that are deteriorating. As examples I mention from 15 years to 30 years and from getting part of a scholarship to borrow everything. What strikes me is that the Minister gives a very free interpretation of this treaty and that what she says is contrary to what a number of lawyers say, who are worried about it. I can't help but conclude that she's on slippery ice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u207	I think lawyers will discuss this extensively. That is why I have had an investigation carried out by a respected institute, of which we have accepted the conclusions. Let us take England as an example, that the treaty has also been signed. There are no problems there, whereas tuition fees there are four to five times higher than in the Netherlands and the loan system there is a lot less social than the proposals we make. In doing so, I assume that everything we do fits very well within that treaty, also in view of the investigation that you yourself referred to. Another important point is that of investment in the quality of education. In the beginning, I said that there are many reasons at all to tackle and change study funding as it is. There are several arguments for this. A very important element mentioned in the House of Representatives is the importance of investing in education. Many have referred to this. They referred to the WRR report "Towards a learning economy. Investing in the earning capacity of the Netherlands" and to the Veerman Commission, in which they noted that there was stagnation. It has not been said that the educational performance of the Netherlands is poor. In fact, the Netherlands is doing very well with the resources we have. But we want to be better and we want to be able to keep up with those countries that invest a lot in education. That means standing still means going backwards. How are we gonna do that? To be honest, I do not see any other proposals in both chambers bringing this amount together to invest in higher education. To be honest, I do not see any alternatives, other than a huge increase in tuition fees. But that threatens accessibility, much more than the measures we are taking now. Furthermore, we know that the growth of the number of students and the diversification of the student population make it difficult to do so. The Veerman Committee outlined the challenges. The number of students has quadrupled, the HBO input from the MBO has grown by 30%, the number of non-Western immigrant students has tripled since 1995. It is often the first-generation students who require extra attention and guidance. The changing student population also makes different demands on today's educational offer. Because precisely because it prepares education for life, it is important that it also grows along with the developments in life itself. We really need to do something, because it's not always enough now. Look at the overcrowded lectures, at the remaining contact with teachers, at the guidance, which can really be better, at the high drop-out rates, especially in the first year. These matters need to be different and better as far as the cabinet is concerned, soon better. We are happy, I repeat, very much without any additional investment. That, I say to Mr Engels, is an approach that the current students can already benefit from, apart from, for example, the vouchers they receive.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u208	The Minister made a very comprehensive speech on all the improvements that would take place in education. The story I hear is incredibly generic. No distinction is made according to discipline. Now I've been a scientist for my life, dean of a major faculty and chairman of the participation council. I don't recognize anything the minister says about education if you applied it to science, for example, a profession like physics. I don't recognize anything in it. If you want to have a debate on the quality of education, there is no point in doing so in a generic way: it is sister or it is. In some places it will be sister, but in others it certainly is. If we do not make that distinction, then we cannot bring about a law that also meets all the problems. On the contrary, then we are engaged in shadow fights. That's my big concern.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u209	I agree with Mr De Lange that we should not have one-size-fits-all: we should not make the same deal for everyone. It would be very bad if we agreed now that all these resources from the study advance should lead to, for example, so many hours of extra guidance for each student and nothing else. We need to look for appointments that fit an institution. There is quite a difference between a multidisciplinary pabo in HBO and a large, broad university in Wed. We have to take that into account. We must also take into account what we are doing now. I'm not gonna repeat any of that. I have already indicated what we are doing with the Quality Act in diversity, with the three-year-old bachelors, with the raising of the registration date to give better study guidance, with the associate degrees, with the university colleges, with the top talents policy, with Sirius, with the abolition of the draw and with the measures in the National Educational Agreement. Mr Bruijn added a number of good elements: look at the position of the examination committees, the adaptation of the accreditation system and the introduction of admission tests to the pabo and the knowledge tests by the committee that forced the report to be published. All these measures are already being taken. We say that even more needs to be done with the freely available amount, up to 1 billion, 20% of the higher education budget, with which we can really take a significant step. This was also endorsed by the Council of State in its opinion. Some Members have asked questions about the fluctuations in the amounts. I shall come back to that later, including the question of whether it is no longer necessary. I would say once again that perhaps more is needed, but I have not yet seen a single proposal that goes even towards the resources released by the study advance. It is important, however, how we are going to spend that money properly. It must be future-proof and tailored to the increased diversification of the student population as well as of the training courses. I am very pleased that institutions have already committed themselves to taking action in the near future. Mr Ganzevoort and Mr Essers asked whether all this could be seen in the budgets of the institutions. We have made agreements at sector level, especially from the year 2016. It is logical that this is not yet visible in the budgets, because now we are looking at the 2015 budgets and it becomes visible in the budgets from 2016. I see that some institutions have already included it in their budget. I call the Rotterdam University of Applied Sciences. It has already released 16.5 million in the framework of the study advance. I am looking at TU Delft, which has the ambition to mobilise more resources and has allocated 15 to 20 million to focus in 2016 and 2017, both on new topics and on new educational concepts, including using digitalisation. I have no reason to doubt the commitment of the universities and consider the commitment they have expressed and the agreements we have made with each other to be very concrete. The institutions are very much aware of the need for more investment, but I would add that it is an agreement at sector level and that this does not have to be exactly the same for everyone for those years. The necessity is not the same everywhere either. They'll give us direction. Universities and colleges, for example, both mention the quality of education, educational research and a modern infrastructure as themes. Together with the institutions and the students, we will continue to look at the investment agenda. That is why Mr Bruijn referred to it already this year I started my higher education tour. I talk with the field, with students, with teachers, with administrators, with business and others about the challenges and investments in higher education. Those discussions and work visits together form the basis for the strategic agenda, together with the associated long-term investment agenda, which is expected to be published in mid-2015. The fact that this investment agenda is not yet in place does not mean that it would not be clear what the money is needed for. Mr Essers expressed concern about this, but earlier in the parliamentary debate I mentioned what measures we should think of. Think of smaller groups in the second year of the Bachelor's programmes, of better guidance by the extra mentors and of encouraging excellence, even after the Sirius Programme ends. I say to Mr Bruijn, for the sake of clarity, that we are taking the Sirius Programme with us. I find that program very interesting. A nice note with lessons for the future has been made. We must not only take them with us to Sirius for the participating students, but we must also see how we can give them a place in education. Matching activities, internationalisation, additional investments in digital learning and ICT facilities were also mentioned. The developments in higher education, not only because of the labour market, but also because of everything that requires flexibilisation and digitalisation, really make a great deal of demands on training.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u210	The concern is also: who is going to ensure that these agreements are complied with? What about the bail? Is this to be dealt with in an accreditation procedure or a visitation procedure, in which discussions are held with the institutions and agreements are made? Appointments can of course also be checked in one way or another. How does that work?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u211	That is why we are going to make quality agreements with the institutions. These are agreements in which the institutions can identify the priority for them, how this fits in with their profiling and where they should also be accountable. They have to answer to me because I want to be able to answer to the students. After all, they lose their basic grant, so they must also get something in return. They do so internally, which is an important reason for giving the right to vote on the broad lines of the budget. That is something that needs to be accounted for.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u212	But also in the context of accreditation and visitation?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u213	That is not necessarily necessary in the case of accreditations and visits. We do not want to define this organisational form now because we want to see how we are going to do it with as little bureaucracy as possible and how we can learn from the performance agreements that are currently under way. There are now three institutions looking at the quality: the Inspection of Education, the NVAO and the review committee, which follows performance agreements. At my request, these organisations have already joined together to see how they can work much better together. With the NVAO and the accreditations, we are in a process around how we can reduce bureaucracy there. We need time for that. There can be no misunderstanding that these resources will come and where they should go, namely to improve the quality of education and to improve the research associated with education at HBO institutions and universities. How we are going to do that and how we can learn as best we can from all the pathways that are now being deployed, we will look at them later. But Mr Essers does not have to worry about the fact that these additional resources would not be accounted for.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u214	Does every institution, in any case, participate in this reinvestment of resources? The Minister attaches it to the fact that students do not receive the basic grant and have influence on quality improvement through participation. The resources must then be available, including on that institution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u215	Yes. These are resources for the whole of higher education. I note that there is a great deal of talk in this Chamber about universities and little about higher education. I think there might be a bigger assignment there. If Veerman's lessons are looked at, at the diversity among students, at the student populations and at the challenges there are, the HBO may have a bigger challenge than scientific education. Certainly a bigger challenge than the beta faculties that are already getting a lot of money from the universities themselves. I am also saying this because I recently received a midterm review from the review committee on performance agreements. Many comments have been made in this regard and I think this will interest the Court of Justice if no return arrangements are required. In the midterm review it can be read above all that the colleges have a difficult task. They want to raise the final level of their training and thus increase the demands of their students. At the same time, in accordance with the performance agreements they have made, they are asked to increase the return. This does not turn out to be easy, especially if the quality of the incoming students is not yet increasing. The colleges call this the "vibratory" they stand for. It's interesting to see how they deal with that. They themselves informed the review committee that the quality increase is a priority for them. They choose to do so, even if this means that they do not meet their efficiency targets. I can tell you that they have my full support on this line, because I think they make a very sensible choice. I am also saying this to Mr Engels. This gives the confidence that the right choices are made and that the performance agreements are handled wisely. It also means that, after its review in 2016, we can see how we can learn from it in the design of the quality agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u216	Point tasks. My question was about the principle. If it is true that students, when they no longer receive a basic grant, will otherwise benefit from the resources released, all students, university or HBO, will have to know the effect and also have to be able to talk about this reinvestment. I can imagine that there will be keys to this redistribution again, but wherever students are, these resources will have to be made available. This is what my question was about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u217	I don't want to, because before I know it, I'm working on the calculating business case student who says: now I've had to borrow more myself and now I want to get this and this in return. It's not entirely fair now either. I think we can see together that there may be training courses that deserve more attention. I also think that institutions should make that choice, because they should not all want to do the same. I believe that we have started this line after the Veerman report and the broad agreement made by my predecessor. It looks at where an institution has a special regional or international position. The University of Groningen has the most international students. I think it is very good, and I see Mr Engels now hesitate to have a discussion between students and lecturers from the University of Groningen about whether that is the desired profile, that they want to keep on holding. I think that the University of Rotterdam and the University of Rotterdam should do something about 'economics and port'. Perhaps these institutions should say that they are going to invest extra in this. I hope that there will be more cooperation between the pabos and university teacher training courses, because they are often very small groups of students. Perhaps additional resources are needed there to provide our teachers, the most important training about in higher education, the quality that we want to have with each other. Although it would only be to give the students who come to the wo after HBO at the beginning the best possible starting position. For all these reasons, I don't want a "one size fits all." If I put the resources in the lump sum, I have no control over it and perhaps they go to beautiful buildings for the board, as Mr Essers suggested. I'd like to avoid that one way or the other. However, I do not want to have to make a calculation that every student gets so much euro and so much money and then says what he wants in return. It is the challenge to find a middle ground in it. We have therefore already included the quality agreements. It is really an experiment and we want to learn from it. If we were to wait for it, we would have no legal basis to ask for the transparency and accounts of institutions, just when the funds for investment in education are being released on a large scale. I don't think that's desirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u218	Madam Minister, I think it is a good idea that we should suspend at about eight o'clock before dinner break and that you should continue with your first term at nine o'clock afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u219	Then I will at least try to finish the questions about the quality agreements. I would just like to comment on the comments that have been made on return thinking. There are misconceptions about that. Within the current performance agreements, return is one of the three study success indicators. The other are outages in the first year and switch in the first year. It is important that many qualitative agreements are already made, for example on teacher quality, attention to excellence pathways, percentage of courses with an excellent NVAO score and the financial consequences that institutions can have if they do not perform sufficiently. These agreements are linked for one third to the indicators for study success in the performance agreements and for two thirds to the indicators related to other aspects of quality. So let me just mention one third of the budget available within the incentive payment for quality of education and study success, that is to say one third of the total 5% of the cost of education. I am sorry to hear the misconception here, too, that the cost of education would only be graduation. That is no longer the case, as I say to Mr De Lange in particular. You're looking at the total education budget. It is no longer worth focusing on the number of graduates as an institution. In 2011, the percentage of educational benefit dependent on the number of diplomas is significantly reduced: from 80% in HBO and 50% in WW to 20% on average in the entire higher education system. I think that is a good development. Moreover, I think it is logical that institutions should receive money for the number of students they have, because we also want all these students to receive education. I wouldn't know a better divider. Diplomacy does, however, have limits and these are thus 20% of the funding.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u220	I think the Minister makes very interesting remarks. The background to the comments I have made more broadly on this subject was the observation that institutions tend to, I think, have an understandable tendency from the point of view of administrative responsibility to focus on those agreements within the performance agreements that are most easy to achieve. Return measures can therefore only be a third, but it is the first focus. That's a concern. This will have to be demonstrated in 2016, when the performance agreements are finally evaluated. I do notice, also through thin empirical own research, that this often gets a very strong emphasis. I'm gonna keep worrying about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u221	That would be worrying if it only related to that. I'm more interested in the purpose behind it. Whether it's performance agreements or quality agreements, I want them to contribute to a quality culture where students receive good and enriched education, to gain knowledge and insight, so that they learn to do so in a modern learning environment. There will not always be one classroom teacher available to transfer knowledge, but will also be working on modern themes such as co-creation, design labs and FabLabs. There are all kinds of new ways of shaping knowledge development. I am also thinking of the development of centers or expertise within the HBO and science parks in the wo. Those are also ways that play a role in this. But again, if it were now just the simple elements that are measurable, that would be undesirable. That's why we're going to evaluate the performance agreements. I also agree with Mr Bruijn that not every quantitative indicator is bad in advance. For example, the student-teacher-ratio is a quantitative indicator, and we also find it interesting. He does say something about the quality of education.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u222	I do not know whether Mr Engels will be happy with all the examples with English names. He's said something about that before. Anyway, that's up to him. I'm gonna keep going at exactly this point. I fully agree with the Minister that these must be high-quality improvements. However, let me give you one example of which I have been quite opposed to in my own institution: the bko. This is widely regarded as a good tool to ensure that there are truly qualified lecturers for the college group. In practice, however, it means that all teachers, in order to get their check mark and thus keep the funding in place, must go through such a process, including teachers who may have been teaching for 25 years, whose evaluations are good and so on. After all, if they don't, they don't get their ticks. That means that all these teachers spend a lot of hours in it, and I know that from experience to get their portfolio around. Then people have to look at it. They put their hours in there, too. It takes a lot of time. The only effect is that in the workplace, teachers are all engaged in this process, while in the practice of their education no seer changes. That kind of performance agreement, let's not make it again, please. Let's really look for quality based on content and not on ticking that kind of list. Otherwise, we won't get anywhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u223	Agreed. When it comes to ticking lists, we're in the wrong place. Maybe I can mention the Teacher of the Year as an illustration, although I know that Mr Engels does not like it. Last Saturday, I was awarded the prize to the winner of the ISO election of Teacher of the Year. I found it interesting that there were some teachers there who said: yes, it's all nice that they all have to have a bko and a master now, but if we don't watch out they're teachers who can do more of the same, and by the way we don't have room for really young teachers. For what it's worth, but I heard it there. I also regularly see that the Teacher of the Year of an institution does not always have a bko or master. So we have to take that seriously too. Therefore, we need to learn from performance agreements before we make quality agreements. I think that at the same time there is also a group of teachers for whom it has been very good that they are now forced to get that bko. How this is shaped is a decision of the institutions themselves. You can do that in different ways. You can let everyone walk through the same mill, but you can do it another way. That's the customization, that's the challenge we face together. In order not to regret the measures we are taking now because everyone now says that they want clarity and clarity so badly, I want to take the time to do so. And that is not that long, because with the higher education tour and the strategic agenda for the summer and the evaluation of the performance agreements, we are moving step by step towards the next round. Mr Ganzevoort asked that, if we then put it into practice in 2017, we ensure that these additional investments are also directed in terms of content and that the students have an important voice in it. I say that with all my heart. In order to actually link the investments to the quality agreements, it is indeed necessary to have a..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The concept of this AMvB will be discussed with the VSNU, the Association of Colleges and the student organisations. I would like to say again that the right of assent plays an important role. If the AMvB is presented, as I say to Mr Engels, it will be clear how participation at institutional level is to be involved, because concrete agreements are then made. I have already said what is necessary about the accreditation system. Mr Engels asked whether the current students could already benefit sufficiently. Yes, they can already benefit from the pre-financing. They can also benefit from the measures we are already taking within the current budget. They can also benefit from it because vouchers are introduced specifically for the first generations. I come to the small studies which Mr Kuiper, Mr De Lange and Mr Essers have mentioned. I would like to say once again that I am very, very attached to these training courses. These training courses are also changing themselves. Take the courses linguistics. Traditionally the focus was on phonetics, but now it is mainly on neurocognitics. This provides fundamental insights into social issues such as dyslexia, aphasia and multilingualism. So that has also gained a more social significance. I told you, Romanian and Finnish are taking away. However, Chinese and Korean are increasing. We also want to give these students good guidance. How we do that is something that requires coordination, especially between institutions. For that we also have the sector plan humanities. This means that I am talking about the unique courses with the VSNU, the Discipline consultation on Literature and History and the Humanities Agency. This is about the approach aimed at ensuring future-proof language training in the humanities. We are looking at how we can make process agreements there about stopping unique training courses. It would be very sad if all the institutions were to take the same decision and suddenly all the training would disappear from the Netherlands unnecessarily. So I say to Mr De Lange once again: it shows once again that the challenge for the humanities at present is a different one than for the beta studies, for example. Lifelong learning is, I say to Mr Essers, a spearhead for the Chamber in the coming period. Together with colleague Asscher, I have a debate tomorrow with the Dutch Parliament. This is about a separate letter but also about the measures involved in the study advance. Think of lifelong learning credit and study vouchers. Again, I say: this law is about much more than just the basic grant. It is also about making a real investment possible in participation in higher education. Here too, I am thinking in particular of MBOs who, at a later age, are still aware of the importance and desire to receive training or to follow modules. The latter should also be possible towards training. Mr Bruijn asked whether Mr Duisenberg's motion on Lifelong Learning Credit could not be implemented earlier, or whether it could not be implemented in 2015 or 2016. I'd really like that. I also need to discuss this with DUO, because I also need to be sure that it does not encounter any further problems and that everything we have planned is going well with DUO. I would remind you of the Elias report. In view of the Duisenberg motion, I asked DUO to investigate the possibilities. I am not yet ready to make a final assessment of this. As soon as I have a final conclusion, I will, of course, inform the Parliament. There were also questions about the investment space. How big is it? Sometimes the amount of 620 million is mentioned and sometimes the amount of 1 billion. I imagine this is confusing. The amounts run up one step at a time. The structural amount will eventually be 620 million. However, I would like to add something: we will be far beyond 2035. Because of all things like the performance fair and the cohort guarantee, it takes a very long time for you to get the structural yield. Frankly, I hope that there will have been a lot of subsequent Cabinets that have thought that investing in education is both socially and economically important. This means that we will have pre-financing from the institutions in the first few years and that from 2019 or 2020 we will have amounts that will quickly reach the ceiling of 1 billion in 2026, if you include the funds that we will free through the OP card without abolishing the OP card or reducing the rights for students. Less allocation of the basic exchange does not yet count for the EMU balance. So we don't see the return immediately, even though we're going to award the basic grant less from 2015. So it takes longer, but it does mean that, thanks to the commitment of the institutions, and also to the cooperation of my colleague in the finance sector, by using a cash drawer, we have brought out the funds so that the next generation of students can actually benefit from the resources we allocate to the study advance. In doing so, I have also answered the questions relating to quality and investment. Then I have the answers to quite a few questions about the financial aspects. Then I will answer a few questions about implementation and information, but I can be brief.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u224	Thank you, but I said it would be a good idea if you had this part off, to suspend for dinner break. It seems to me that we should do that now. This means that you will deal with the subjects you have just mentioned after dinner break.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u225	Mr. Chairman. I shall now turn to a number of financial issues. It concerns in particular the consequences of borrowing. I would like to say once again that we already have a hybrid system. It's not like everything's a gift now and it's gonna be a loan all of a sudden. Even now students borrow, but under different conditions than the study advance will be the case. Study loans differ substantially from consumer credit. That is very important to emphasise. I have heard a number of spokesmen talk about a loan as if it were a mortgage or a consumer loan, but it really is not. It differs in many aspects, such as the duration, the income-dependent way in which the redemption is organised, the level of interest and the safety net provided by the social refund conditions. Under the minimum wage you pay nothing, you never pay more than 4% on the income above the threshold and any residual debt is cancelled after 35 years. I do not see Mr Koffeman, but I will answer his question about the AFM. He asked me how the LSVb's complaint would go. The Financial Supervision Act does not apply to study funding. The AFM will itself assess the LSVb's complaint and explain the situation. The Financial Supervision Act made an exception for student loans. That's what's happening now. This is also why a study loan is not included in the same way as a consumer loan when a mortgage is concluded. I've reported that before. Students already know that borrowing from the government is in a responsible way possible to sustain during the study. In the current situation, two thirds of students borrow. They have an average debt of €15,000. A third doesn't borrow. I don't agree with the CDA that borrowing should be a final option. After all, we now see that borrowing is a very common option for students. There's been a lot of questions about how much debt we're gonna get. Students now borrow on average €15,000. A third of the students don't borrow. If you add them up, they have an average debt of €10,000.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u226	The Minister states that there is a difference between commercial loans and government loans. That is not disputed by anyone. If you're going to buy a house, the student loan has consequences other than a commercial loan. The Minister has said this a number of times. That may be so, but the AFM's regulations are very clear and simply say: borrowing money costs money. She doesn't say whether it costs much or little money, depending on the party that provides the loan. No, borrowing money costs money. It's a general recommendation to be careful about borrowing. The Minister does not explain why public loans do not have to comply with this regulation and do not have to be provided with that warning. Why should the government tell students not to let them go crazy and borrow that money is perfectly normal, while commercial parties have to say: borrowing money costs money, beware of the huge liability we put on you?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u227	At the very beginning of the debate, I indicated that the study loan not only benefits individuals but also makes a major contribution to society. It is therefore in the general interest that students can borrow. There's nothing wrong with that. We shouldn't be telling ghost stories about it. They're doing it now, and there's nothing against it. However, a study loan also has to be repaid. That's why we want to raise financial awareness among students.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u228	No one objects to the fact that students can borrow. There are objections to the fact that students need to borrow in certain circumstances. Must borrow should be accompanied by a warning: be aware of the risks you are facing. You're gonna be a burden for 30 years. Even if you're going to buy a house and the student loan counts less than a commercial loan, that doesn't mean it has no effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u229	Therefore, the financial awareness of students needs to be increased. We are working on this, together with the Nibud, Wiser in money matters and many other organizations. It is a very important aspect. I also owed Mrs Sent answers on information.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u230	Mr. Koffeman, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u231	However, I would like the Minister to answer the question as to why she believes that the government does not have to comply with the AFM rules when granting loans.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u232	The AFM supervises compliance with the Financial Supervision Act. That law does not apply to student funding. This has been decided by the Chamber and therefore for very good reasons. The government guarantees the loan and not the private capital. It's a completely different story.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u233	It is true that it is not in the law that a financial package leaflet is required for this loan. Moreover, the Financial Supervision Act states that a financial package leaflet can be requested when the Minister is appointed. The Minister says that the study loan is different from a commercial loan. That's right, because a commercial loan has hard contractual agreements, you have to provide collateral and you have clarity about the risks, especially through the financial package leaflet. There are no guarantees in this loan, because politics can change everything, and that is probably going to happen if we get a financial gap like that in Britain. No collateral is required and therefore it is a high risk if the terms change. I think it would be wise if the AFM were to be asked for advice so that students in education know what they are getting into.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u234	I really don't understand this. Once again, Mrs Gerkens stands up for the interests of students and now suddenly she says that the students must conclude their loan under the same conditions as any consumer credit and that we are going to ask the AFM for that advice. This does not seem to me at all in the interest of the students. There's no reason to be here...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u235	Mr President, I am going to interrupt the Minister here...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u236	No, no, Mrs. Gerkens.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u237	... because I have not said at any time that the loan should be on the same terms as consumer loans. That's something the Minister really puts in my mouth. All I ask the Minister is whether the AFM can give advice on the financial risks of this loan, so that every student who will have to take out the loan can prepare himself properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u238	I don't need the AFM for that. I have consulted with the AFM and the Dutch Association of Banks on how student student student student loans should be considered when making a mortgage. The loan now weighs 0.75%. This will be 0.45% according to agreement with the AFM and the NVB. I see sufficient reason for the AFM's confidence in the special treatment of the study loan. I also see no reason to ask for advice from the AFM, which does not prevent me from thinking that a student loan should also be repaid and students should be financially aware of the consequences of borrowing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u239	Mrs Gerkens, I think it is best for you to proceed with this in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u240	If the basic grant falls away, what changes will be made in student funding? If you apply for the basic grants for home and expatriate students, this amounts to €9,000. The Centraal Planbureau estimates that not all students who will borrow €9,000 will be able to accept it in a different way, for example through a higher contribution from parents, the use of savings, the adjustment of the spending pattern, or the adjustment of the borrowing behaviour for the type of student who lends more than strictly necessary under the current system. The CPB has calculated that a third of the increased debt will be otherwise resolved. This means that €6,000 will be borrowed. As a result, the CPB expects the average study debt to increase with an additional monthly burden of €22. Although this is a relatively small amount, it is still an amount that has to be repaid and it is important that we do not stare blindly at averages after taking into account the distribution of the averages. This also applies to the expectations of the average study debt after the introduction of the study advance. That also means that the former student has to pay back. Well, you can. Flexible and early redemption is made easier. Students can set a refund period or monthly charges themselves. For example, a student can choose for himself what suits his personal situation. Lower monthly charges and reimbursement over a longer period of time spread or rather be ready with the refund sooner and thus save interest, it can all. Even now, 60% of students are relieved within five years, while they can take up to 15 years to do so. Mr Kuiper asked about the relationship with labour market policy. I ask students for a higher contribution of their own. They can finance this contribution in different ways. Most students will be able to repay that loan. This is also apparent from the current figures. I just mentioned a few of them. Students have to take into account that life can sometimes be annoyed. We do not ask students to seek their salvation from a commercial lender, but as a government we take responsibility for the loan provision, especially when it is a problem. That's what we do with the load-bearing arrangement. It's a kind of risk insurance, you might say. The load load regime ensures that the student will in principle always be able to meet his drawdown obligations. That arrangement is a safety net for life's sake. Students do not have to pay off if they earn less than the statutory minimum wage. After 35 years, the loan is finally cancelled. Mr Essers and Mr Koffeman asked whether students were not tempted too much to incur as many student debts as possible. I note, on the one hand, that there is a fear of over-indebtedness and, on the other hand, that there is a fear in part of your Chamber that students would borrow too little and therefore abandon their studies. I don't think either of them can be true. In order to prevent loan versions and to ensure access to higher education, it is very important that prospective students know that a study loan from the government is substantially different from commercial credit. It is important that they are aware of the social payback conditions. On the other hand, it has rightly been pointed out that we should also make students financially aware. I am also telling this to Mrs Gerkens, because she saw the same tension. Students should not only know the social payback conditions, but also know the debt structure to which a particular loan amount leads and which monthly expenses are included. So we certainly do not want to tempt students to incur so many student debts. I am convinced that the incentive is not in the system either, because the loss of the basic grant increases the amount of funding for the student. The basic grant was converted into a gift when graduating within the diploma period. This is replaced by the refund scheme. This means that students also have to think about the consequences of this. Moreover, I do not expect students to be strategically committed to the possibility of the debt being forgiven. They do not know what the future will bring them. They do not know what their income will be over the next 35 years and what their potential partner's income will be, which they often haven't even met yet. Until you reach the maximum refund rate: the higher your debt, the higher your monthly charges. A higher debt also has consequences for the amount of a mortgage. In short, students need to know the whole picture: with which desires is the loan accompanied and what social guarantees are there? Again, they can't handle loans lightly. We do this together with the Nibud and Wijzer in money matters. The CDA Group has also asked questions about the consistency of the study advance with government debt policy. I have already said a lot about this. Of course, I take the high private debt seriously. He takes the cabinet very seriously. We have also taken measures to this end, in particular to take important steps to reduce the vulnerability of the economy to private debt. Think of stricter rules for more responsible lending and less vulnerability to house losses. But thanks to the study advance, we are not getting more private loans but additional investments in higher education. It is precisely these investments that have a positive impact on economic growth and hence on domestic spending. This shows once again that a study loan is really different from a consumer credit. Mr Essers also asked about the relationship between the blame for graduates and the risk of recovery. The amount of the debt is not only looked at in terms of the amount of the debt but also at the level of the income. These social conditions, an insurance for the former student, involve costs borne by the government. We're not secretive about that. The government carries the risks. Under the current system, 90% of each euro lent will be returned. That's the payoff quote. Due to the improved social refund conditions for the student of this proposal, the redemption ratio changes to 86.4%. That's how the CPB calculated. On this basis, the costs of remission have been estimated. These costs are an integral part of the budgetary implications of the legislative proposal. In other words, I did not count myself rich by assuming that every euro lent will be returned. It is precisely because of the social reimbursement conditions that this is not the case. By the way, we have made a conservative estimate. The CDA, the Christian Union and the PVV are asking a question about the impact on middle incomes. The Christian Union in particular asks questions about large families. It is a misconception that children with low middle-income parents would not be eligible for an additional scholarship, that larger families could not receive an additional scholarship or that the expected parental contribution would automatically increase. Mid-incomes do indeed receive a supplementary grant up to a certain limit. The same applies to large families. The supplementary grant remains for income up to €35,000 or higher. Up to an income of €30,000 one will get the maximum increase. Up to an income of about €46,000, parents' income is considered sufficient to pay the full statutory contribution, but this applies to a family with one child. What's changed now? Unlike the proposals of the previous cabinet and the government agreement, a number of simplification measures have been removed. One of these measures concerns the so-called count children. That means underage kids keep counting. People with more children can get an additional scholarship by increasing the supplementary scholarship to a slightly higher income. That's what I'm gonna tell the PVV. This means that middle incomes are still eligible for an additional grant. Let me give you an example. A student with three school-based brothers and or sisters will soon receive an additional scholarship, up to a parental income of about €55,000. If there had been no more children in that family, the border would have been at €46,000. For example, a student with two school sisters and a student brother can soon receive an additional scholarship of €101 per month with an parental income of about €60,000. That, too, is reasonable to me. I do not agree with those who say that the middle incomes are being punished for this. Mr. Koffeman asked about the incompetent student. During the introduction of the 1986 Student Finance Act, it was explicitly stipulated that the student himself has a responsibility for the student's funding and that the legal representatives do not have to sign an application. In this context, it is also true that the study loan is also subject to a difference with other loans which are fully regulated by public law. The capacity to act plays a role in private law. That is not the issue here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u241	The Minister says that inability to act does not matter, but I find it interesting to know what the Minister thinks about the fact that a person as a minor, as an incompetent person, can take on a debt for decades without his legal representatives being aware of it or being responsible for it. Does she think that's a good way of doing things?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u242	This is a conscious loan, a student loan. Again, that's something other than a private loan. I suppose most students will talk to their parents about that. I would like to answer a question directly from Mr Essers. Parents are not obliged to pay for it. There is a supposed contribution in the legislation. That financial awareness may have something to improve, but that is no different from now. This bill does not contain any other age limits compared to the current legislation when it comes to borrowing for a study.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u243	There is a difference. A 17-year-old student is now making commitments for the next 30 years. It is very doubtful whether a 17-year-old can oversee that term. Colleague Gerkens also indicated it. The government does tell the student that he can't smoke, drink or drive, but he can take on a debt for 30 years. There's something crooked. The Minister doesn't see that. This is on her account, but many people find it strange that an incompetent citizen should be allowed to make a financial commitment for 30 years.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u244	I don't see students who meet the requirements for higher education as an inability to act. Mr Essers asked whether the balance between the time a student spends on his studies and the time he spends on work is in balance. We can already see that a lot of students are working. In the last Student Monitor, 87% of students indicated that they could combine work and study-related activities perfectly. There's nothing wrong with that. Many students could perhaps be encouraged a little more to find a side job related to their studies. I also see institutions working on this. They sometimes have a separate agency or something for that. There's another way they can fix it. I heard the group chairman of the CDA the other day on a television programme saying that responsibility should also be placed on the parents and the individual themselves. That's what we do here. People can choose for themselves. We are not going to prescribe how many hours they may or may not work. That's up to the student. This will be a learning process for some students, but it is something that belongs to life.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u245	That students don't see something as a problem now, says very little. The teachers do see this as a problem because they have far too little real recourse to the students. In fact, I doubt whether the balance between work and study is good in the current situation. The government also has an important responsibility in this regard.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u246	We take them by organising an intensive study culture. The discussion was just about quality investment in higher education. That is what we want to do to ensure that students are given a challenging programme. Then you can also ask students that they are present on certain parts. There are students who may take a little longer but they also have more extra earnings, which means they need to borrow less, so they can provide more for their own maintenance. I don't want the government to record all that from the top to the individual level for people.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u247	In the new situation, people are going to borrow more. To prevent that, they'll have to work more. This is not conducive to improving the quality of education that the Minister wants.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u248	You don't have to. The starting point is a loan system in which students can borrow the full amount they need to provide their living under social conditions. If they want, they can't spend 40, 80 hours a week on their studies, and maybe other activities related to them. However, that does not have to be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u249	Then the final point. What does the Minister think of the linking of reimbursement to the pace of study and the results obtained? That would be a really good incentive to meet the expectations of the education system.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u250	In my view, that is another bill, which your party leader has stopped, namely on the longest-term study measure. I do not think it would be desirable to include them again, because they all have negative aspects. It's very complicated and very bureaucratic. There's already an incentive in this for students to think. They do know they have to pay back the loan they're taking. Mr Bruijn asked about the macroeconomic effects of this bill. This includes the potential effects of structural employment. He asks for an ex ante estimate of the various effects mentioned at the time of the legal assessment in relation to the then applicable baseline path. With Mr Bruijn and his group, I am of course very interested in an ex ante estimate of the macroeconomic effects and the effects of the measures on labour. I say to Mr Bruijn that this aspect, as requested, should be included in the legislative evaluation. Mr Sörensen of the PVV asked how to prevent the government from earning from student loans. That's settled in the law. The interest rate on student loans in one year is based on the interest rate on government bonds with a certain maturity in the previous year. If the interest paid by the government falls, the interest on the student loans and vice versa will of course fall. The government's not gonna make interest loans. The interest payable by the government is higher than the interest charged by the student. Mr Kuiper and others asked about the impact of the study advance on public debt.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u251	This implies that the interest that students are going to pay can be adjusted per year?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u252	No, it's changed once every year. The interest rate is now determined on the month of October. It's an average. It now happens once every four years and it will be once every five years, so that we take into account fluctuations and not a fluctuation in one month has a huge effect on the interest rate that a student has to pay.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u253	If it's four years from now, couldn't there be fluctuations within those four years?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u254	That is why they are averages, otherwise the student must take into account every fluctuation and every financial market and interest rate fluctuation. That seems very undesirable to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u255	You understand that I can see the bureaucracy coming, hence.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u256	No, I don't think so. This is a reduction in bureaucracy. There is a better understanding and more transparency for students. Your question was: do students pay more interest? No, the government's taking some of the costs. I'm here for the government debt and the college advance. We now have 13 billion in student loans. Under the same conditions, this amount will be 19 billion in 2045. It is expected that public debt will indeed increase by 17 billion in structural terms because the loan term is longer. There is nothing new about that, because that is what the bill says. We have shared this with the House of Representatives once again. The Minister of Finance has confirmed that once again. That is only because it takes longer for the funds to be repaid, but the funds are, of course, simply repaid. The fact that we are expanding tuition fees because we want to encourage lifelong learning also plays a role. All in all, this means that Brussels' demands on the Stability and Growth Pact are in no way compromised. It is more an expression of social and collective responsibility through the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u257	I'm trying to figure out exactly how it works. The current basic grant is paid from the budget of OCW. The annual budget is actually paid by taxes. The loans that will be outstanding will be borne by the public debt. Did I say it that well?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u258	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u259	By the way, did you mention that 17 billion? 19 billion? is, in the long run, added to our public debt? Mr Bruijn said at the beginning of his contribution that we should not want this negative effect on public debt. But that's what happens, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u260	The discussion is about how bad that actually is. It is in the public debt, but the money will of course be repaid. For this we have the calculations of the CPB with the write-off ratio. We have said: we think it is so important that we can now invest in education, because that contributes to the economic growth and the spending space in the Netherlands, that we are satisfied with it and that it is acceptable that people take a little longer to repay it, because we also know that it does not affect the requirements of Brussels. By the way, all of this is based on fairly pessimistic ceilings. We know and also expect a lot of students to pay off their student debt sooner. In that sense, it is a rather theoretical exercise.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u261	It is not quite that, because as long as that system will be in place and students will borrow in this way, the structural seizure of public debt will continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u262	It's no different now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u263	There's going to be an increase of 17 billion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u264	It's no different than what we're doing now. If you want to turn off loans socially, and if you want to invest the funds now, that's the consequence. It would be bad if it had a negative impact on the financial position of the Netherlands or if it threatened our agreements with Europe. But that does not have to be the case, because that is what we have secured.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u265	I understood that it is different from what is happening now, because the basic grant is now being paid from the current budget of OCW, i.e. from annual tax revenues. So it's gonna be different from the way it is now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u266	We are talking about long deadlines. We're talking 2050/2060. We don't talk about today or tomorrow. We are really talking about a long-term development, which I believe is justified. I will continue with the CDA's question on tax deduction. This could have a major impact on the cost-free education system. The tax deduction may be taken into account in the calculation when choosing a study, but it cannot be that this deduction is decisive in choosing either funded or unpaid education. The tax regime for the deduction of training costs was not intended and never intended to increase the accessibility of uncosted education or to encourage the choice of uncosted education. The student's income, both during and after the study, determines the extent to which any tax deduction can be paid. A high deduction of study costs requires a very high income according to student measures, in order to make use of this deduction. I do not think that is desirable. Most students don't get around to that either. We want to avoid fiscal measures, because we will then have a budgetary deficit. The only viable way to prevent the leakage is to abolish the deduction for all students who are entitled to regular study funding. The deduction remains for the part-time students. That's exactly what it's meant for. If this measure is not taken and the budgetary loss due to tax leakage is to be covered by an increase in the threshold for the deduction of training expenditure, the threshold should be increased by such a large amount that only a very small proportion of students can make use of it. De facto, such an increase in the threshold is equivalent to the abolition of this tax regime. In this case, people who are not entitled to study funding are also suffering below. The differentiation in the thresholds is undesirable, because it creates very complex regulations, which are difficult to implement and enforceable for the Tax Administration. These regulations contradict the ambition to simplify tax legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u267	We receive many letters from, in particular, private colleges, which explicitly point out this point. They say: our students have high study costs. When choosing this type of education, they have explicitly taken account of tax deductions, and they are making use of them. I think that the Minister's speech is mainly directed at regular students, but certainly not at this category of students.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u268	I do not entirely agree with Mr Essers. I have studied this very extensively. I went to work and I talked to the NRTO about it. I notice there's been a lot of misunderstandings. For example, they often do not know the advantages that this bill also offers these students. They have the idea that there are limited loan possibilities. I have agreed that I am going to provide them with separate information to ensure that they also see what opportunities they can continue to borrow. These are, moreover, cost-free courses, for which students already have to pay about €15.00, for tuition fees and housing costs. Those are already very high amounts. At present, only a very small proportion is eligible for deduction of tuition fees. The benefits, the abolition of the earning limit, vouchers, lifelong learning credit also apply to these students. We are going to make separate information about it, as I said.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u269	Briefly, Mr Essers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u270	May I then ask the Minister to clearly communicate with the Chamber exactly how this category of students makes use of this deduction? There is too much discrepancy between the image that exists now and what the Minister says. The tax deduction is explicitly abolished because it has budgetary implications. Then it can't be that it has hardly any effect on students, can it? There's got to be something...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u271	But the question is for which student. The majority of students at uncosted institutions are part-time students without the right to study funding. So we are talking about a very small group that can make a very high contribution to education and tuition. Only a small number of students are eligible for tuition allowances. That is absolutely not the majority of the students there. Those are the part-time students and they're gonna keep their deductions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u272	Can we get a note?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u273	I will ensure that the information I send to the NRTO will also reach this Chamber. The SP asked for a comparison with other countries. I can briefly say that the Netherlands is really not comparable to England, for example, where the tuition fee amounts to £9,000. That is almost €10,000, while the tuition fee is €1,900. In the Netherlands, the government pays €6,500 per student per year, and a significantly higher education contribution has been requested in England. So we can't compare that one-on-one. We have learned from all experience abroad, as we have learned from research to see how we can best shape the Dutch system. There are still a few questions about information. Information is crucial.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u274	Why does the Minister repeatedly use the example of England, where €10,000 tuition fees have to be paid, while in Germany the tuition fees are €0 and in Belgium €600? Does she have an interest in reflecting on a situation that is not right? After all, in England there are massive protests against the high cost of study. So I wonder why the Minister always comes up with the example of England and hardly goes into the fact that studying in Germany and Belgium is significantly cheaper than in the Netherlands. Nor does it indicate why this is the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u275	I have dealt very extensively with the German situation. I have indicated that it is striking that, while the tuition fees there are much lower, we have much more German students in the Netherlands than Dutch students in Germany. That's not a factor of two or so, no, it's a factor of five or seven. If you ask, it turns out it's because there's more to get here for German students. Apparently, they'd rather pay a little more tuition for better education. I come to the questions of information and financial awareness. I have already said a lot about this, along with the debate. It is of the utmost importance, also because of accessibility, that information is properly regulated. I therefore understand that there are concerns about this. I have heard Mrs Sent and Mr Bruijn, Mr Ganzevoort, Mr Koffeman. As early as September, we started with the careful start of information. However, I have always had to do so under the condition that the States-General had yet to adopt the bill. The moment the First Chamber agrees to this bill, and I hope that that moment is near, I can 'loose', to put it popularly, with the information. Then I can tell students and upcoming students very well about what's going to happen. We are going to do that through a letter, which I have already mentioned, via a radio spot, in the social media and with information by DUO officers, who go to open days to answer questions there. Yesterday I heard again how important the latter is, when it turned out that MBO students thought they should also borrow according to the study advance. So there is absolutely no harm in this happening. Provided that a decision has been taken on this bill, I am going to visit a number of open days myself next weekend, not only to answer questions, but also to hear what is going on. We will also contact Startstudderen.nl and the Vo-decanenvereniging, for which DUO has already made a flyer. Through digital media, DUO distributes everything to deans and mentors. We also hold regular polls to improve the knowledge level of students. In this way, we are going to settle a lot of things that are actually already in the starting blocks at the time of the adoption of this bill. Financial awareness is part of this. With Mr Ganzevoort, I say that this means that we must also occasionally fight ghost stories that go around, in the interests of accessibility. We do this together with DUO, who is going to make an online calculation help, which allows students to get an idea of the monthly amount they need in their study time. In this way they can see if that means that they have to borrow a part and, if so, what part. For example, they can see which student debt entails a monthly burden, for example that a student debt of €10,000 is a monthly charge of €36 and a monthly charge of €72 for a student debt of €20,000. In short, this is important to give insight. Making the finances transparent we will do together with the organisation Wijzer in money matters, who will make a brochure, with the Nibud and with the Foundation Weet What You Spend. These are important organisations in order to achieve the broadest possible range of communication and information. Furthermore, we also make the finances clear by improving our own standard settings in the system. So far, for example, you could borrow the maximum amount. That's now at zero, so a student has to consciously enter what he or she wants to borrow. We are also talking, together with the Nibud and Foundation Weet What You Spend, or Wizard in Money matters, I don't remember, to see if we can set the standard repayment periods at 15 or 20 years instead of at the maximum 35 years, so that we also encourage in that way not to do the maximum, but to increase financial awareness. These are all ways of contributing to that. If there are any suggestions left in this Chamber, I'll keep my recommendation. Mrs Sent was still talking about a message on Startstudderen.nl from last September, I think, or July. I agree with her that the claim was very firm and that the nuance, which the article does know, should perhaps have been more in the head. However, Startstudderen.nl has an independent content editor, who looks at the lyrics in a journalistic way. By the way, Startstudderen.nl is made in consultation with the student associations. If the bill is approved by this Chamber, I hope that we will be done with it. Then we can give the information clearly and clearly. Finally, I come to the implementation: DUO and PVS. Mr Ganzevoort and Mr Koffemans and Mrs Gerkens had questions about this. They want to know how to prevent ICT from being in order at the last minute. DUO has been very closely involved in the drafting of the legislative proposal and the implementation test. The execution is complex. It's a major change notice for DUO. I would add that it is possible; they have tested everything for it. If DUO indicates that some parts are large, it means that it's just a lot of work to be taken into account. The arrival of the study advance is an important change. This means that, in order not to run any risk, we are making the necessary adjustments to the implementation system in both the existing system and the new system, the programme of renewal of study funding. The existing system also needs to be modernised, as it includes a modern ICT system. I have no reason to believe that there are problems there. The increase in the cost of the programme as a result of study advance payments is estimated to be around 20 million according to the first official forecasts. The size of the additional software to be provided and the longer duration of the project have led to additional costs. Part of the previously built and tested software needs to be adapted and new components added. Moreover, it has been delayed for a while, because there were also plans by the Rutte I cabinet, which would also cost money. Mr Sörensen asked about bureaucracy. This is an important theme. The measures we take contribute to less bureaucracy. It also means that it will be easier for citizens. A citizen does not have to apply annually for study funding and does not have to pass on the income of his parents, about which the CDA or the Christian Union asked a question. This goes automatically through the switching of computer programs, for example with those of the Tax Administration.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u276	Students can have parents who work in small and medium-sized enterprises, which causes their income to fluctuate enormously. How does the Minister intend to deal with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u277	I think I've answered that before. We take into account fluctuating incomes...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u278	That was about the interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u279	In fact, it gets easier. In the past, the data had to be adjusted much more often. As a result of the modernisation we are undertaking, the adjustments are, of course, keeping pace with the adjustment of students' or their parents' incomes. The only real additional administrative burden is the new provisions. This concerns in particular the public health card for MBO students. Some 150,000 underage MBO students will soon have to be introduced into the system. That is a considerable task, which cannot be carried out overnight. Mrs Gerkens asked whether the decision on the bill should not be postponed for a year. No, the bill is enforceable. The uncertainties do not diminish by delaying the decision. We now know everything we can know. That's all we can know from all the ex ante investigations. We will therefore have to continue to monitor the situation very closely. We cannot allow information to go out until the Chamber has approved the legislative proposal, so there is no point in postponing it. I hope I have answered the questions of the Chamber sufficiently.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u280	Thank you. It was a lot of work. We are now ready for the second term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u281	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister and her officials for their comprehensive answers to our questions. I said in my speech this morning that we are not opposed to a loan system as such. The Minister is right to say that there is already a loan system. The only question is whether the extension of the current loan system and the abolition of the basic exchange lead to a reasonable and proportionate good system. We remain of the opinion that there are still many open ends to this arrangement. I do not expect the Minister to be able to give absolute certainty about this, but we are sure that, if this law is adopted, we will be burdening a lot of young people with a lot of extra debt by 1 September. That's for sure. We will have to wait and see what the benefits of the bill are. I am absolutely convinced of the Minister's good intentions, but the quality agreements and performance agreements will all have to find their way. There is a strong appeal to the House's confidence that it will all end well, but we must now make a decision on a substantial increase in student study costs. The above also applies to other issues, such as access to higher education. The Minister says a number of times that she will monitor it. That is fine, but the criteria on which it is going to test are not clear. I understand this is difficult, but it doesn't increase our sympathy for the bill. Some studies show that accessibility may be difficult, but these studies are related because not all the information would have been included. Other investigations, which are in favour of the government's reasoning, are just being brought forward as some evidence. In this context, I refer to the research on multi-annual master's studies. So we remain very sceptical on this point. I would like to emphasise a number of issues by tabling a motion. We consider it very important to link the repayment obligation with some of the issues that specifically concern improving the quality of education. We believe that students should be encouraged to graduate nominally. Every year one student is less educated, the government earns money. We think it is a missed chance that this will not somehow be linked to the loan system. The minister says the last student fine has been dropped, but I can assure her that it did work. I've never seen so many students sign up for writing their final thesis. The fine worked, but there were some elements in the area of transitional law that did not work properly. The bill leads to a lot of bureaucratic problems. I think they're very simple to solve. One can easily ascertain how long a student has studied. His numbers can also be easily communicated. I therefore call for an explicit link with the repayment obligation. I'll make a motion on that. The President shall: Mr Essers, Mr Hoekstra, Mr Van Bijsterveld, Mr Terpstra and Mr De Vries-Leggedoor proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the draft law on higher education does not provide for a reduction in the repayment obligation of the student advance if students graduate in nominal time or obtain a very good figure average on their final list;]] [[Whereas the introduction of the study advance therefore does not provide sufficient incentives to prevent study duration delay and six-year culture;]] [[calls on the Government to take measures to alleviate the repayment obligation in the case of nominal graduation or achievement of a certain figure average,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34035-H]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u282	The Minister will also monitor the consequences of transitional law. It will be examined to what extent current bachelor students will be prevented from continuing their studies, because, unlike what they had thought, they will fall completely into the loan system in the master phase. We have discussed this extensively with the Minister. I made it clear that we would have made another choice. There is a very clear link between the Bachelor's phase and the Master's phase in current university education. No one only goes for the bachelor phase; the master phase is linked to it. The practice is also that in the fourth bachelor's year one can still get study funding, albeit at the master's phase. Students who have started a study could never have taken that into account. Hence my appeal to the Court to rule on this violation of legal certainty. We believe that the transitional arrangements should be extended. The President shall: Mr Essers, Mr Hoekstra, Mr Van Bijsterveld, Mr Terpstra and Mr De Vries-Leggedoor proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the transitional arrangements laid down in the proposal for a law on higher education do not take sufficient account of the strong link between the bachelor's and the master's phase in higher education;]] [[Whereas there is now also a claim to study funding in the fourth year of the bachelor's programme;]] [[calls on the government to extend the transitional arrangements to current bachelor's students who will then do a master's degree,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34035-I]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u283	Another monitoring situation has to do with the multi-annual masters. We find it extremely difficult to follow the Minister. It is obvious that students who do a two-year or three-year master's will cost more than someone who only does a one-year master's degree. The disappearance of the basic grant would mean an additional deterioration in the financial situation. In particular, I would like to mention the abolition of tax deductions. I believe that this category has been particularly affected by this. Precisely because these students made more costs that were not covered by a basic grant, they could benefit from that deduction. I would like to refer once again to the memorandum on tax deduction promised by the Secretary of State. I had linked this to the consequences of the removal of the tax deduction option for students in uncosted education, but I think it also applies to the students who take a two-year or three-year master's degree. That is where the abolition will actually work. In any case, we are very concerned that this loan system will shift into another government objective, namely to get more influx into the science and technological disciplines, to get more teachers in that direction and to give more teachers the opportunity to follow those masters at all. That's why I'm calling through a motion to deal mildly with the student loans of this category of students. The President shall: Mr Essers, Mr Hoekstra, Mr Van Bijsterveld, Mr Terpstra and Mr De Vries-Leggedoor proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the proposal for a law on higher education does not distinguish between annual and multiannual masters;]] [[Whereas it affects in particular beta studies (possibly in combination with first-degree teacher training), medical masters and research masters as this will lead to less entry of students into these masters;]] [[Whereas this is contrary to the Government's objective of promoting influx in particular in the beta and technological directions and eliminating the shortage of teachers in these directions;]] [[calls on the government to take measures to partially cancel the student debt incurred if these masters are followed,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34035-J]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u284	I'm closing up. I very much hope that the plans to improve the quality of education will be fully implemented. I see in my own practice that there is a great need for that improvement. I believe that there is still a great deal to be gained in the link between education and research and that we should get rid of the strict separation that often exists between teaching teachers and researchers. This must be combined; students must be able to benefit from it. That doesn't have to cost so much. Once again, we are talking about a loan system, but a reasonable, fair and proportionate system.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u285	Madam President. I assume that the motions will be put to the vote for the legislative proposal, in which case I would like to ask Mr Essers whether he is going to vote against the bill or whether he will vote for it if the motions are adopted.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u286	In the College of Seniors it was agreed that the motions will be voted on first and then on the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u287	Then I'll ask the question. Is your group going to vote in favour of the bill if the motions are adopted?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u288	As I said, a number of things are very important to us, first of all the link with the nominal graduation and the numerical averages. That's one of those motions. Another point is that we do not have sufficient assurance that investment in improving the quality of education will actually be realised. That's separate from the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u289	I think that these motions are going a bit in your direction, so I can imagine that you will say to your group: let us vote in favour. I wouldn't welcome it, but it could, of course. I must also advise my group on how to vote on the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u290	Thank you for your advice, but I have raised many more objections than just those motions. These are matters that I think can be repaired in the short term, but there are other things that I am still much more sceptical about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u291	Thank you, Madam President. I know enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u292	I have a request for a small explanation of the motion on nominal study or the culture of six. We have had a whole debate today on how we want to approach quality and on a substantive approach to it. Is there not a contradiction in this motion that, when studying nominally, it is par excellence in regard to rapid flow, efficiency and so on, not to the quality of content and the higher figures? In other words, isn't there an intrinsic contradiction in this motion? I'm trying to get her.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u293	I don't see any contradiction. Studying within the nominal time limit should simply be the starting point. You have to have an incentive, because it's happening far too little now. If someone graduates nominally, that doesn't mean he wouldn't get enough quality. As far as I am concerned, you should see this in conjunction with the agreements with the institutions to improve the quality of education, making it easier to graduate nominally. That should be encouraged a little bit more by giving a bonus for the repayment obligation, also because of the tendency to take extra jobs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u294	I would also like to ask for an explanation of the motion on alleviating the repayment obligation. When Mr Essers started, I thought: he is indeed going to attend a scholarship fine, I prefer to call that a short study bonus.... but he does not do so with an uncovered check, so he will probably spread it: something up and something down. But he doesn't. He's only coming up with a redemption obligation that's gonna be lightened. That's gonna cost you. My question to Mr Essers is how much money that costs and what he pays for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u295	I pay that out of the profits of the fact that people are going to study nominally. If someone's studying for an extra year, it's gonna cost the government a lot of extra money. You're gonna save it. You've lost a little bit more because you ease the repayment obligation, but you win because you lost less education money to those students.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u296	What amount are we talking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u297	I'm not ready for that right now. I'd like to leave that to the government. I thought one year of studying the state cost about $7,500 per student. You can figure that out.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u298	But if we...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u299	I would like to leave it at that, Mr Bruijn.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u300	I have had a slightly better look at the motions, which leads me to a somewhat more political question. Then I'll take a moment to think back to what we've been through today. The CDA Group has tabled a Franken motion to the Justice budget, raised a big point and finally voted against the budget. In the footsteps of Mr Sörensen, I would once again urge Mr Essers to reflect on the following. He's filing motions now. Suppose they were supported by the Chamber. As far as he is concerned, should this not have any effect on his group's assessment of the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u301	Mr Sörensen's question was: do these motions now cover all your objections to this bill? When you put it that way, I'd like to take that challenge; I'm always positive. If these motions were to be adopted and the legislative proposal would then be put to the vote, I would like to ask for a further suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u302	I think we should leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u303	Mr. Chairman. We have had a very interesting debate here today. My first question this morning was whether there was anyone who did not think that there should be investment in higher education. During the course of the day I spoke to a number of people, but no one replied that we should not invest in higher education anymore. So we still agree with the Veerman report. The next question is how do we pay for it? I asked this morning whether we are paying that out of raising the charges, from borrowing, from printing money or from raising the tuition fees. No one's for that. Then there is one other possibility, and that is what this government is suggesting to us, namely that the burden should be distributed equally among all Dutch people so that everyone can contribute proportionately and according to capacity to take the Netherlands out of the crisis and to leave a healthy situation to the new generations sitting here in the gallery. Then we don't borrow 50 million every day to keep our prosperity going and we haven't failed to invest in education. Nor have we increased the burden further, which would have cost jobs. We've done exactly the opposite. So my party is strengthened in the position it had, but in which it was open. This is by far the best, the most social and the most reasonable solution. This does not alter our view that students should be addressed on their talents. Students must be free to choose the study they want.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u304	Mr Bruijn thus offers some opportunities to cover the costs of this, but he chooses only those things that he likes. In this context, I would like to refer to the remainder of the mortgage interest relief that is still growing. There's a lot more money to be made from that than the whole study system. Mr Bruijn then, of course, calls for it to be in the coalition agreement, but I do not remember that I have ever been familiar with it, and so I have no further message about it. Mr Bruijn is now dealing with a very eclectic way of solving problems, and that does not seem to me to be a good idea in an intellectual debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u305	I have mainly mentioned solutions that I do not like at all. I talked about increasing the burden, borrowing more, printing money, spending more money and raising college fees. These are all solutions that I do not like. I waited today for someone to explain to me why that is a better solution. I would like to speak in detail with Mr De Lange on the issue of mortgage interest relief, but I do not know whether the majority of the Chamber would support that intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u306	The President does not approve of that!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u307	Let me just say that abolishing or reducing the mortgage interest rate deduction is an increase in the burden. This therefore falls into the category of increase in charges. It slows down the flow on the housing market. Perhaps we can discuss this further outside the framework of this sitting. I have a small correction for the Minister. She has given a great compliment to the LSVB who sits here in the gallery. The members of the board of the LSVB are so representative that they are unrecognizable among their constituents. However, they were present yesterday at the HO tour in Utrecht. We also discussed the fear of borrowing today. At D66 he threatened to turn to a fear of measurement, but in my opinion we got very well to an average. On behalf of my group, I spoke about John Stuart Mill, as did the Minister. The minister called him a social liberal. I think that is a pleonasm myself, but that is probably because I have to take another course at my Dupuis college in the group. I'm happy with all the support for the report from the Telder Foundation, but I do have a proposal. I almost filed a motion on it. My proposal is not to use the word 'bildung' for the time being and to circumvent it. I thank the Minister for the commitment to involve the First Chamber in the serious monitoring. I also welcome the commitment of the additional letter which will then be addressed to my son Martin. I'm still walking around with that frustration, but we're gonna take care of that one more time. I have the letter with me and I'd like to show it to everyone. It's a letter from the minister of three sides, addressed personally to my son.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u308	You're not gonna read it to me, are you?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u309	I'd like to take up that suggestion. Or did I misunderstand you?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u310	You misheard me. It wasn't a suggestion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u311	I'm happy to do it! When assessing complaints from students who say that they are not informed, let us keep that letter to a minimum. I cannot deny that the letter is very clear. My son understood the letter anyway, and even I understood. At least everyone at my house is 100% informed. With regard to the additional financial consultants and confidants, I would like to make a small critical comment to the Minister. We need mbos on the labour market, as well as bachelor students who don't do masters. That was also the essence of BaMa, so let's not rush through now and with all kinds of consultants and other means of printing force everyone to go from MBO to HBO and go from a bachelor to a master's degree. However, we all agree in this Chamber that there should be that choice. I thank the Minister for her commitment to share with us the advice of the VO Council and the evaluation of career guidance MBO. The Minister has removed our concerns about the right of assent in general terms. For my group, an important point was that the Sirius criteria are being used for all students. We will, of course, be following very critically the impact of the Duisenberg motion, as well as the passing on of the macroeconomic effects. I would like to comment briefly on the EMU balance. The Minister explained that very well. You're going to lend money to students at some point. You borrow that money in the financial market. There is, of course, a time lag between the moment you lend it and the refund, which takes place four or five years later. Then you have a latent claim. If this bill is ever abolished, of course we hope that it will not go ahead with the discharge than you are lending out at the time. The part you borrow in the financial market, you invest in a claim. This does not apply to other public expenditure. When assessing the EMU balance, you cannot just take this one-on-one. That's also the unique thing about this loan. That is why the Minister is right to say that it has no effect on our commitments in Europe. Mr Essers spoke of a short-term study fine. There are, of course, students who study longer and who run out of study funding. You're gonna have a problem there, a hole. It is a pity that Mr Essers did not come up with a pass-through. If he had come up with that, I could have referred it to my group. All of us cannot support unpaid cheques, but perhaps we can take a look at them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u312	I'm gonna ask you to watch your time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u313	Then I'll watch the time. In fact, I will conclude my speech, because that is probably what you mean. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. To the generations sitting here in the gallery, I would like to say that everyone here today was working on them. Everyone has their best interests at heart. I will advise my group to support this bill. Once again, I would like to thank the Minister and colleagues for today's debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u314	Mr President, Your Excellency, attendees. Let me begin by congratulating the Minister on the almost inspired way in which she defended this bill. I have listened with admiration to the answers she and her staff have given to the many questions. Unfortunately, however, that was already a little bit in the text, the answers were not such that I will propose to my group that we vote in favour of this bill. I will say that they should vote against it. Maybe they'll follow me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u315	Mr. Chairman. The PvdA in the First Chamber sees convincing advantages in the present study advance. The supplementary grant is for students who really need it and there is extra money to improve our higher education. Students also get plenty of time to pay off their debt according to carrying capacity. This improves higher education and remains accessible to all. We thank colleagues for the substantive discussion and the Minister for her detailed answers. I should like to pass on the four points that we raised in the first term. The first main point was the paradigm, the underlying thought. As far as we are concerned, Kern is what young people want and can do with their talents, for themselves and for society. The government still pays the most, the prerequisite is that accessibility will remain guaranteed. We ask the Minister to make a commitment that the student responsible will no longer be called the student who invests. The second key issue was the improvement of quality. We agree with the Minister on the importance of improving the quality of higher education. With her we support the importance of respecting acceptance and diversity in making quality agreements. We are pleased that the performance agreements will be taught and that accountability will be accompanied by as little bureaucracy as possible. The combination of the right of assent of the participation councils of colleges and universities on the main lines of the budget with the fact that the funds released from the study advance are seen as additional funding with the Bishop amendment is as such an important guarantee that the additional resources will indeed be used visibly for quality impulses in higher education. However, my group urges the Minister to ensure that the receipt and use of the funds released from the study advance within the institution budget are adequately specified and that, in particular, the student participation councils have a specific right of assent in respect of these funds for the next ten years as regards the use of these additional resources and their entry. After all, the students themselves are perfectly committed to ensuring that a study advance, bearing in mind Loesje, does indeed lead to the required quality guarantee. Thirdly, we have called for attention to be paid to a number of specific groups with potential vulnerabilities. This concerns first of all students with disabilities. We welcome the commitment to consider whether the measures taken are adequate and that a structural solution will be sought if this is not the case. With regard to the MBO observers, we support the impressive list of measures discussed by the Minister and the commitment to communicate with and accompany these students, as well as the possible financial support needed for this. When it comes to specific groups with potential vulnerabilities, we have called for further attention to be paid to students who may be disproportionately affected. Think of medical students, students with a relatively heavy bachelor's degree or with a multiannual master's degree. We are pleased that the consequences will be monitored. We believe that it is premature to announce measures in anticipation of the possible consequences. As far as medical students are concerned, however, we wonder whether it is as easy to work alongside fellowships as the Minister seems to suggest. We welcome her commitment that she will talk to her colleague from VWS about the societies and ask the Minister to inform us about the outcome of this discussion. About the cohort guarantee of current bachelor students, I note that this is again a group that is potentially hit hard. We understand the balance that has been sought between current and future students and the careful consideration of the various legal principles. We welcome the commitment on communication and guidance and the possible financial support needed for this. Finally, not insignificant group which may be disproportionately affected, we talked about the downfalls. There, we welcome the commitment that maximum efforts will be made to limit this, with the help of targeted measures and the commitment of consultants and deans. On this subject, we have two remaining questions. A number of groups have called for attention to be paid to the impact of the proposed legislative proposal on middle income. The Minister has already been called upon to monitor the effects on low incomes in a motion from the House of Representatives. Is she also willing to include the effects on middle incomes in that monitor? Furthermore, the Minister has undertaken to carefully monitor and take action on a number of issues if the effects prove undesirable. Is it prepared, in this case, to provide financial resources to offset the undesirable effects that would appear from the monitor? On the last point that we have asked for, information and communication, we agree with the Minister that it is crucial to pay attention to this in order to ensure access to higher education. We welcome the close cooperation with the Nibud, Wiser in money matters and other organisations in order to stimulate financial literacy and to nudge students in a behavioral economic way, so give them a push. In view of the Minister's careful answers to our first-term questions, I expect convincing answers from the Minister to our remaining questions, so I will advise my group to vote in favour of the legislative proposal before us.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u316	Mr. Chairman. I would like to express my thanks to the Minister, who has answered very comprehensive and very interesting questions from all the political groups. As far as I am concerned, the compliments she has received for this are certainly due to her. I shall begin with the legal status of the students, including the facilitation of the right of consent. Then it is about free tuition and the quality of the objections procedures. I understand from the Minister that it is understandable that contributions from students to the academic community in the form of administrative work are different in nature and that this also justifies differentiation in the contributions from the profiling fund. I would like to note the commitment that the Minister is still trying to encourage the institutions to provide exhaustive tailor-made work on this issue in my own words. I don't think there's much more to be done at the moment. When it comes to the legal status and the facilitation of the right of consent, I note that this apparently remains the focus of continued concern. I understand that the results of the Panteia study have been followed up by the institutions by providing better information on the various websites. Nevertheless, the Minister has promised that, if necessary, she will focus more on improvements, including what we already know from the Whw and the OER. That too seems to me to be the most feasible at the moment. I come to a number of aspects relating to accessibility. Those were three points: the flow from the MBO to the HBO, the position of out-of-town students with a study disability and the cohort guarantee. The Minister has indeed proposed an impressive list of measures to accompany the problem of the flow from MBO to HBO. I was here a long time ready for an interruption, expecting a little more openness, but it wasn't. I found it pleasurable to note as a commitment that the Minister wants to develop both facility and financial further measures, and the monitor points out that above average is a delayed flow from MBO to HBO, especially when this is due to financial reasons. As far as the cohort guarantee is concerned, the Minister has explained what the rules are on this point: all students in higher education who are currently in training are allowed to finish them while retaining the basic grant. Basic grants already awarded will not be taken away afterwards. That is, within the Bachelor's programme, including a possible delay in study. Furthermore, I understand that there are facilities for students with disabilities who are living out of residence, including the profiling fund. The Minister has promised to monitor more closely the implementation of the profiling fund and to involve students in it. In particular, we always find the latter a pleasant point. That brings me to my questions about the return and direction of investment. I understand very clearly that the Minister wants to guarantee, in so far as she is in a position to do so, because that is not forever, that the resources actually go to higher education and not to other sectors or other objectives and that they will also be accounted for as such. As far as I am concerned, this does not result in excessive monitoring and accreditation. My final point concerns quality agreements and the question of whether or not to use parameters. I have made quite a point of this, in particular because of the performance agreements in force and, above all, because of the higher quantitative component in them. The Minister has made a number of interesting statements, namely that the quality of education is above return. That is an important observation for my group. Furthermore, it has indicated that in the future, education benefits will no longer be targeted with a strong focus on graduation. That too is a very important observation. I am pleased to note that I am now looking at Mr Bruijn, Mr Bruijn, that the Minister finds the thoughts which Mr Bruijn has unfolded on innovative forms of paramaters and testing criteria that could be used in the context of the quality agreements that are still to be drawn up interesting. Then the three of us are on the same page. I also found them interesting and in advance to a large extent acceptable because of the thought behind it. Mr Bruijn has made that very clear. I don't have it in hand, but I remember it well. When we start working with quantitative indicators, with performance agreements or quality agreements that actually lead us further away from the goal of improving the quality of higher education in the sense that they lead to perverse incentives and wrong reactions, we are on the wrong track with each other. That's exactly what I'm worried about. So I am not dogmatic in advance against any kind of quantitative agreement, but they must contribute to the quality of education. I will conclude with a preliminary conclusion. The Minister has clarified in a positive way a number of things which I consider important and which my group also considers important. It has also formulated a number of concessions towards my group. Since I understand that there seems to be a further suspension after the Minister's reply, I would like to use it to share with my group my opinion with my experiences from the debate with the Minister. I will send you the results and the final weighing up as soon as possible in the course of this evening.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u317	You're keeping the tension going.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u318	Mr. Chairman. The people who are following the debate here sometimes have the impression that everyone here starts out blank and that it becomes clear in the course of the day, but of course there is already a whole history of written exchange, of thought formation and so on. In the debate we are looking in particular at where the weaknesses are, where we should fine tune some and what are the underlying fundamental discussions on which we can taste each other's kidneys. In that respect, I thought this was a valuable debate. There are a number of points that specifically asked for attention, and there are a number of points that we have talked about a little more fundamentally. On that last point, I note some of the commitments to verify that I have understood the Minister correctly and to see what has resulted from this debate. First of all, the discussion about the quality criteria, a point that has just been mentioned. This will play an important role in the next phase. I'm very happy about it. The need to discuss quality criteria for content has been underlined by Mr Essers of the CDA, who, as far as I am concerned, is too mixed up in his motion on this subject. He lets the efficiency criteria of nominal study run all the way through the criteria of excellence of higher grades. It seems obvious to me that we need to talk about this. I welcome the commitment to this, including the role of students in developing criteria for thinking about that quality impulse. Then there is a point that was raised side by side, but perhaps it would be a good idea to give a suggestion to the Minister about this: the free administration of tuition fees. There are some tensions, for example the fact that this scheme can only be used if one is studying full-time and cannot use other subjects of registration and the like, including the loan system. Perhaps it is an idea that the Minister will talk to the directors herself on a regular basis, to find out what bottlenecks these students are facing and how we could use this new system to facilitate them optimally. I think that's enough for now. The profiling fund is an extremely important theme. We have therefore talked a little more firmly about this, including the uncertainties that seem to exist about it now. An investigation has been undertaken into the nature and extent of the safety net that should be the profiling fund and discussions will take place. Where necessary, more direction will be given to the profiling fund. As far as we are concerned, this is an important step in better guaranteeing students' rights when they call on the profiling fund. I'm here to talk about the multi-annual masters. There is still a question before us. Some points of a bill are better on your stomach than others. In itself, we are satisfied with the commitment of the impact monitor, which also gets its qualitative dimension. I would say to Mr Essers that I do not have to say anything about the motions that we think it is too soon to say for certain groups of measures now. However, we think it is important that we are aware of where exactly the tension arises and that the Minister does something with it where necessary. Mr Sent has already said something about the medical students, particularly at the stage of the studies. I understood what the Minister said that they might be able to work between one fellowship and the other, but the fellowship is already work, so it doesn't seem realistic to me that they work during their fellowship. The basic question I am pleased that the Minister wishes to speak to her colleague from VWS on this is how we deal with the combination of study, labour and pay and whether the current societies might not be better in the vocational ideas of the 18th or 19th century than in the professional ideas of the 21st century. I come to the important issue of education law. I welcome the commitment to better identify this in order to see where the gaps are and to better define the legal position. I would remind you of the point I mentioned in my contribution: referring to the WHW on this point is not so strong. There is a debate on whether this law is at all a professional ground for students. Lawyers say that third parties cannot derive rights from the provisions of education laws such as the WHW because they create only legal obligations between school and government. To refer to this now when it comes to the legal status of students seems to me to be a bit problematic. I am not a lawyer, I say in all modesty, but I think it would be better to look for something more fundamental there. I do think it is important that, when involving students in this whole process, it is important that the wider scope of participation and the role of students should be understood that students in the participation they have are not necessarily in a position to act against the competent authority of the institution or to offer a good counter-play. In this respect, I invite the Minister to consider what is needed to facilitate students in such a way that they can really play their part in this. We're talking about building in the checks-and-balances, organizing the counterpower. I think that today, particularly with regard to students, we wanted to take important steps in this regard. I'm rounding up. We said in advance that we have a positive intention in relation to this bill, especially if we compare it with the current situation of study funding, but also if we compare it with the proposal that was on the table last year. If we then see what important steps have been taken, I have already mentioned them; they are in the Acts, so I will not repeat them now, which provides a good basis for advising my group to support this proposal. In view of the commitments made by the Minister, there are a number of fundamental points where we really see an improvement in the position of the student.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u319	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for the very comprehensive answer. It was interesting to see how Mr Bruijn occasionally helped the Minister. When I look at his response in second term, I see him as a true shadow minister up puppets. That is in itself quite remarkable, since this bill is from a PvdA minister. But also thanks to Mr Bruijn for his reply every now and then. There's a few more points I'd like to go over. First of all, there is Mr Bruijn's question about the OECD. I don't want to dwell on it too long, because it's pretty late. Of course, such a report is quite complicated and difficult to read. You can get anything out of it. If the OECD itself summarises that income inequality leads to a decline in economic growth, I assume that is the key point of the report. Minister Bussemaker also mentioned declining protests that have been there from the 1990s to the present. She didn't say this, but she kind of suggested this. I gotta tell you, I think that's kind of lame. We all know that we don't get people on the Square that easily anymore. In the eighties and nineties there were also quite other demonstrations that were much more extensive. In this context, I would point out that in a short time, among other things, the LSVb collected 29,000 signatures against the bill. Yeah, well, that doesn't mean anything. I would like to stress that I think it is important for the AFM to assess the financial risks of this loan product. I understand when the Minister says that it is not a commercial product, because there are very different sides to it than a commercial product. That's what the AFM can explain. It is important that students and future students know what kind of loan they are borrowing and what the risks are. So you have to make all the considerations. The fact that the Bachelor's students thought they had a fourth year is still a pain for my group. There are people who have wisely made choices, for example for a year of administration or for switching studies, and for all the legitimate reasons have thought that they would have a fourth year. The Minister then asks what these legitimate reasons are. You can discuss this for a long time, but I would have liked it if the Minister had taken the time to take these pain points out and work this out in a proposal. The minister says that €40,000 is really wrong for a multi-annual master's programme. She has given a calculation example: it is €15,000 because a third does not borrow and if you count that, it is €5,000. I've learned a little bit today. We can put this under the term 'Dutch arithmetic'. If we count the students who do not borrow, the average debt will indeed be reduced. We can also count everyone in the Netherlands, then the average debt gets even lower. This is a little Dutch math. I'm moving on to DUO. It's now estimated at 20 million. That's a lot of money for an IT project. Does the Minister have any guarantees that this amount will not increase further? Are there going to be "go/no go" moments in the new planning? What is she doing to prevent us from giving an uncovered cheque to those who are now building the PVS? Once it has to change, we know how it goes: there will be an account. DUO said it was a difficult task. I also believe that this is a difficult task. I thought I heard the Minister say that DUO has been waiting for the execution until this Chamber has said yes. Is that right? If that's the case, I'm worried. I had hoped DUO would be already in the process of implementation, so that tests can be started in April. That's gonna be pretty short notice. I'm afraid DUO won't be ready in time. My group continues to worry about the student's legal status. You really don't learn participation in a year, let alone when you're among experienced drivers. I think the minister overestimates the students, no matter how good and driven they are. The PvdA Group has mentioned a number of things: the disability, the disproportionately heavy hits and the cohort guarantee. To all three things, the Minister admits what she has promised before. In short, nothing has changed at all. I am surprised that the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats will easily say that there are commitments. If there are commitments, it's about monitoring and understanding. There's no change, nothing's changed. For these difficult groups, the situation at the beginning of the debate was the same as it is now. I'm concluding. Today, the Minister stressed that she was opposed to the principle of profit. She says the student's business case should be completely forgotten. She wants to see the student as someone who has a social responsibility and who has to show good citizenship. In my opinion, she removes the main argument for this bill: the student can invest in his own future; the student will earn more in the long run and you can ask for some. I don't think that's possible. You can't save both the cabbage and the goat. What is it? For my group, education is a collective asset that benefits society as a whole. Our country is one of the few countries where social benefits are greater than individual benefits. There is still a lot to be done about this bill and there are still many shadowy sides. That is why I asked the Minister for a year's delay, precisely because they are there, so that we can take the time to look at those vulnerable groups. For these groups it is really not well arranged. If the Minister says that a year's delay is not necessary, because we now know everything and nothing will change, my group can only draw one conclusion: we reject this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u320	Very briefly. I'm gonna have to step in anyway. I would also like to thank Mrs Gerkens for the compliments. I have here the summary of that OECD report and I object strongly to its summary of this summary. It says here: "Incomes at the bottom grow much slow (...) in some countries, absolute income poverty." It's about those differences. The report also states that in the rest of the income ladder income disparities have a positive effect on the economy, on jobs, on growth and on what future generations depend on. Those are the facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u321	I think we're about to have a private discussion. It really says in the summary that it is not about the very low countries. The United Kingdom is mentioned as an example of a country where income inequality has increased, and Mr President, it is not only what I say that even the cabinet recognizes, in the answer to questions from Mr Klaver of the Second Chamber, that, although according to the Cabinet the income inequality in our country has not grown at all, it has reduced economic growth. I advise Mr Bruijn to read the letter that the cabinet sent to the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u322	Mr. Chairman. It has been almost twelve and a half hours since we started this debate. I think that by now we have discussed all the aspects and highlighted the tiles that still had to be lighted. We thank the Minister for the detailed answer. I believe that we do not disagree on the objective of increasing quality in higher education. In this respect, we are also heading in the report of the Veerman Committee. What was not decided in that report was the way in which funding for that quality impulse had to be sought. We see that since 2010 Cabinets have been working to obtain these funds on the side of the students by abolishing all or part of the basic grant. That's a choice. We don't make that choice. It is a choice that has been made and has been spoken in the footsteps of it today. I have pointed out that, in any case, the investments made by a government, including the provision of a basic grant, will later return to the government via the payroll tax as revenue. There's a return I quoted a WRR report for that: to a learning economy of 7% per year. Within that space, the investment we need for the quality impulse can be sought. This indeed requires a completely different political approach, which is likely to take years. The price we now see for ourselves is that we will have an expensive system for higher education with high tuition fees and not a scholarship system. The price is also that we teach the next generation that is going to study immediately to make big debts and that the differences that exist at the beginning remain. At the end of a course, one student may not be blamed, because he comes from a certain environment, and the other does. There are also effects on inflow and flow. We have discussed this in detail. They're all ex ante ideas anyway. We think that the effects on the influx are very laconically done and certainly on the flow. I am referring to the choices students are going to make for the duration of their studies: stop at the moment they have obtained their bachelor's degree, for example, or ask themselves whether they can do a one-year or a three-year master's degree. These are all effects that we have said: it is a pity that they will act in this way. That also concerns the content. That is also what I have argued. If the student gets the message that he should be able to earn it back later, then the choice of study is also looked at differently. We agree that it is wonderful if the student can follow his or her heart, if you then see the real scientific interest and the talent that is growing in someone, but this is actually greatly discouraged by the mechanisms we are building now. We have very serious reservations about this proposal. We will be voting against the bill in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u323	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for answering our first-term questions. The answers didn't convince me. We've learned a lot today. In the meantime, we know that the Minister alone can extend the legal definition of 'action disability'. For the minister, a student of 16 or 17 years of age is unable to act and is perfectly capable of entering into financial obligations without the consent of the legal representatives. That's not my translation, it's literally the Minister's text. The Minister's view is also educational that a government loan is so fundamentally different from a commercial loan that the government can encourage one loan and discourage the other. The Minister completely ignores the possibility that, over the next 30 years, a completely different economy could be created, whereby "a large debt" could have a different meaning than it has today, in the current debt economy. The Minister does not give a clear answer to the question of whether, and why, an old MBO debt can be brought under the new loan conditions without penalty. The problems that DUO sees in abolishing the basic grant, raising the supplementary grant, Lifelong Learning Credit, vouchers and flexibilising the student debt are being removed by the Minister. KPMG doesn't think it's feasible, but the minister has a different opinion, and she gets that space from a majority in this house, it seems. The possible conflict with the International Convention on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights also throws away the Minister, reflecting the United Kingdom as an example of how it should not. In this debate, therefore, there is only the netting of votes in favour and against. In the media, there's rumors about match fixing. We're about to get a roll-call vote. We'll see. The vote on the biggest system change in education over the last 30 years, at least according to the Minister, and the impact on the current generation of students will be felt for at least 30 years. The students who have served this debate all day without a phone! In particular, the voting behaviour of colleagues of the Labour Party will be looked at with particular interest. Mr Sent of the Labour Party announced today that Loesje is her favorite philosopher. That is why I would like to give a quote from Loesje: 'Philosophy according to the VVD: I think, so I borrow'.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u324	The question that will be answered this evening is whether the Labour Party will join this VVD philosophy and in particular whether all members of the group would like to lend themselves to it. We'll see.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u325	Mr. Chairman. I too begin by thanking the Minister for her very comprehensive reply. She has made a feminine attempt to highlight her views with a lot of words. That's the good news. The worse news is that I haven't heard a lot of news, and in particular that I haven't heard a lot of news on the points in the bill that matter. I have heard attempts to make the bill digestible, despite the fact that there are a lot of elements in it that are inexhaustible at heart. That doesn't make me happy. In today's debate, I started by informing you about the problem and for which this bill is a solution. At the end of my speech, I repeated that question to make sure that he got through well. I'm sure he's made it through, but again it's lacked a bit of answers. That's unfortunate. I have heard a lot of statements from the Minister such as 'I think it is reasonable', 'I think it is balanced' and 'I think it is justified'. All of that will be true, but my tendency is to think that the position on these things, especially on what others need to find, is a bit moralistic. I've never been so charmed by that. Many words are dedicated to monitoring. Many words are devoted to committees, talks that are to come and what is more. In general, a lot of emphasis on monitoring is a result that is part of a legislative proposal that itself has a lot of internal shortcomings. If there are internal defects, there is a tendency to re-establish them later through a multitude of emergency measures. That propensity is always very strong. I'm afraid we're dealing with that in this case too. The aim of the legislative proposal should be to improve the quality of education and research related to education. That has been discussed extensively. However, hardly any mention has been made of the differences between many disciplines. If there is talk of a lack of quality in education and of educational research, I have to say first of all that my discipline does not include educational research at all; we have the hands full of ordinary research. This also means that there is no reason to think that the quality of education would be so wrong. What do you think that means? If we are dealing with disciplines that are doing well, where education is in order and where there are hardly any problems, and if we compare them with disciplines where things are not in order, then after tonight's debate I fear that the disciplines that are not in order can expect support from funding and that disciplines that have their affairs in order are at great risk of being punished for having them in order. That does not seem to me to be the intention of a law that we are stuck with for the next 30 years. I have that great fear. It is clear from my speech that, if we look at the positive and negative aspects, the negative aspects are far from being considered. My group does not need half an hour to decide that it will vote against the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u326	Is the Minister able to respond immediately? That's the case. I give the floor to the Minister for Education, Culture and Science.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u327	Mr. Chairman. I can deal with a great many issues in detail, as well as questions that have yet to be asked, but most of the comments made by Members I regard above all as an expression of opinion and as an indication of where the spokesperson is. In view of the time and in view of the very extensive discussion we have had with each other, I will try to confine myself to the motions and the specific questions that have been put. I note that many spokesmen have stressed the importance of vulnerable groups, including the importance of monitoring them. That is not an end in itself, but it is indeed intended to draw conclusions, if necessary, with a view to accessibility, that very high quality to which I too attach particular importance. I am glad that most people have said: we need to see exactly what the consequences are. We are indeed going to look very closely at that. I was a little confused by Mr Essers who talked about the tax deduction of a tax plan by the Secretary of State. It was unclear to me whether he meant a plan from the Secretary of State for Finance or whether he expected a plan from me. I would also like to say that I would like to say once again what I am doing with the tax deduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u328	Sorry, I'm so used to debating with the Secretary of State for Finance that I wasn't clear. I am concerned that there is still uncertainty about the consequences of removing tax deductions from study costs. We talked in the debate about the impact on students in private colleges, but this also applies in other areas. I mentioned the multi-annual masters because students who follow them make more costs than they get at basic grants. Hence my question as to whether we can get an overview of the consequences of deleting the deduction. What groups are affected by this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u329	I'm gonna admit I'm gonna do that all at once. I'm also working on uncosted education to identify the possibilities. I will send a copy of that, otherwise we will repeat the discussion that we have already had with each other in the written round of questions. I don't think that's very useful. I'll get right to the motions filed by the CDA. The motion on letter H calls for the repayment obligation to be combined with nominal study or the achievement of a certain figure average. I do not recommend the motion, because there is already an incentive in the study advance, namely the fact that the loan amount has to be repaid. I do not think it is desirable to give students an extra incentive. The question is also how it relates to quality improvement. That has already been said by others. I also doubt whether this is the quality improvement we want to encourage, because it is very quantitative. Moreover, the proposal costs money and this would be at the expense of investment. That's why I don't recommend the motion. The motion on letter I deals with the transitional arrangements. It is asked to apply to current Bachelor's students. I also advise against this motion. As I said, I do not agree with Mr Essers that it is necessary to keep the current bachelor's students out of the wind for their master's programme. It is a balance between legal certainty on the one hand and solidarity and justice with future students on the other. I find it strange that this motion comes from the CDA group, given the history of the master's proposals in the loan proposal of the previous cabinet. I'm dissuading the motion. It would also cost some 119 million. The motion on letter J calls for measures to be taken to remove the student debts that arise when these masters are followed. I also advise against this motion. I think I have explained in detail what the research has given us about the multi-annual masters. I do not think it is legally necessary or consistent from the point of view of equality of law. I also find it undesirable in view of the upcoming students. I think we should monitor this carefully and then see what the consequences might be. I would particularly like to thank the VVD for correcting the presence of the NSVB at the HO-Tour. I'll give you the letter. It is good that the letter is also well read in the Bruijn house. It is important that all those information campaigns that we are going to carry out get through somewhere. It has been said about MBOs and Bachelor's students that we should not go too far with financial consultants. I have made it very clear that we are going to do this where it is really necessary. That is what I said to Mrs Sent. First of all, we must have substantiated evidence that it is a matter of considerations relating to the study advance. After all, I have explained in detail that there are also many other considerations. Mrs. Sent mentioned the paradigm of the responsible student. I'll admit to her that the student responsible is central. I have already said that the term "investing student" led to misunderstandings. The way she explained it, I didn't mean it, but that's how it could be read and understood. We are talking about the responsible student and we will include this term in the information. The use of resources must be guaranteed within the institutions. Specific commitments on the right of consent are requested. We already have the right of assent on the broad lines of the budget, in conjunction with the right of assent on the institutional plan. That puts students in a good position. I do not know whether we should now give a more detailed specification of the right of assent. I do not see the added value of this for the moment, but I have already said that the entire quality investment and the right of consent relating to it will return to the AMvB. We could discuss it with each other. For the moment, I am relying on the integrality of education policy and therefore also on an integral balance between the use of resources. We agree that students should play a major role in forming the strategic agenda, in making quality agreements and in determining what is happening within the institution. I have said enough about the disability. If I have agreed to the issue of medical students with my colleague from VWS, I will reconnect this. Mr Ganzevoort had asked for this. Mrs. Sent asked if I could take the middle incomes with me on the monitor. I'll tell her I'll take it with me. Of any financial resources, I have already said that I am doing so, but it must be well argued and not out of the loose wrist. There's gotta be a reason. Mr Ganzevoort asked whether the WAW provided sufficient basis for ensuring the student's position. The WAW has different provisions concerning the rights and obligations of the student. This could include tuition fees, legal protection and participation. So it is not just about the relationship between government and institution, but also about the rights of the institution. Of course, I am prepared to include this issue in the discussions I will have with the experts on the legal status of the student. Of course, I will also involve the students.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u330	In itself, I'll settle for that. My point was that I had understood from lawyers that this law is not suitable for students to appeal to it. That's where the problem is. The Minister can use the law to take steps through funding sanctions if there are problems, but he does not give a legal basis to individual students or employees, because he does not enter into the relationship between the school and third parties. Maybe the legal side can still be sorted out, so I'm sure it'll be fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u331	In fact, I have already promised this with the research I mentioned in the first term. I fully agree with Mr Ganzevoort that it is necessary to facilitate students so that they can be a counterweight within the institution and that there can be a good debate about the value of quality education and good investment. When it comes to tuition and free study and the full-time students discuss with directors what the bottlenecks are, that is in line with my previous commitment. Mr Engels mentioned the administrative work and differentiation. That is also a factor in this, because it all affects the same position of students. Indeed, they must be able to combine their administrative functions well with education. He asked for guarantees that the resources would go to education on the basis of content. I wholeheartedly agree with him. It is interesting to look at those parameters, which Mr Bruijn also referred to. I honestly think we're not far from each other. In the end, everyone wants the quality culture to come. The question is how to do that and how to step-by-step, which will be a continuous process................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. I'm getting on the SP input. What was said about the AFM and the financial package leaflet, I find really undesirable, because that would confuse students and give the impression that it would be the same as a commercial loan. I have indicated that I do think it is important that students are aware of the fact that they have to pay off. It is therefore a good thing, for example, that we have a study leaflet so that we know what one can do with a particular training in the future. But as mentioned above, the AFM will contact the LSVb. The LSVb will therefore also receive a response from the AFM to their wishes. Another question has been asked about DUO. Fortunately, the assumption is not true that DUO would not start or test until April. DUO has already started the process of adapting the parts of the legislative proposal that will be introduced as of September 2015 and will have a material impact by that date. Changes in ICT systems are taking place step by step. For the bachelor phase, the test phase is currently under way. We have reviews. We'll have them carried out at regular intervals. The next review is expected to take place in May 2015. It keeps keeping track of whether we're on schedule. In response to Mrs Sent, I have already said a few things about the student responsible. It can be because we as a government invest in education. It is a big contribution, as we organise a loan form that is accessible to students. You can ask for an individual contribution. I do not see such a contradiction. I do see a certain emphasis. In the debate with Mrs Sent, I clarified once again where the cabinet and I stand. Mr Kuiper spoke of Veermans. We agree on intensification, but I note once again that I have not seen any alternative proposals. I do not see that, if we did not do this, there would be substantial investment in improving the quality of higher education. I don't see the differences between students in entry and flow. I am not laconical about it either; I say this sincerely. I think it is really important, but I also think that we should not bring ghost stories together into the world and that we should look very carefully at where there are arguments to intervene. I won't hesitate to do that either. I owed Mr Koffeman an answer to his question about MBO students going to HBO. I would add that Mrs Sent had asked the same question. For the MBO, the study advance is not introduced. Mbo students continue to receive their basic scholarship, but can also borrow Mbo students. If they switch to HBO, their loan will be converted into a ho-system. If we did not, they would have a loan of 12% of their income, namely for their MBO training, and a loan of 4% of their income. In total, you'll be 16%. I'd say that's really unfair. The starting point is that the new conditions are more flexible for students. Think, for example, of the pay-off and the fact that it will only count from a minimum wage. That is the cause and also the reason why MBO students should be properly served, I also say to Mr Koffeman. Finally, I come to Mr De Lange's contribution. I'm just gonna say one more time that it's not just about disciplines. It's really about other differences. We are talking about higher education, not just universities, but also colleges. We are talking about different fields of science, about profiling in the regional field, but it certainly cannot be the intention that resources should only be made available for training which is not working properly. It is precisely the intention that it should be given such a form that profiling can also be given a chance. This means that if things are going well, they may want to add an extra boost. I have tried to respond briefly to the main points. I'll take a look around. I don't think I've forgotten anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-8.u332	Thank you, Minister. The Group of the Party of European Socialists has asked for a minimum suspension of 20 minutes. I shall suspend the sitting until 11.30 p.m. May I have your attention, please? I had already announced a suspension, but the Labour Party has indicated that ten minutes is enough.
