ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister and the spokesmen. I would be the first to give the floor to Mrs Dik-Faber of the Christian Union. We have wide speaking time and it promises to be a good debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u2	Mr. Chairman. King William II in general is not our most progressive or dear king, but in some ways he was far ahead of his time. He ruled from 1840 to 1849, when the nineteenth-century cities cast off the boundaries of the Middle Ages. Defense walls and city gates had lost their usefulness. Cities were therefore focused on demolishing those impractical walls, ramparts and buildings. However, Willem II had a weakness for city gates. Against the spirit of time, he saw the value of it. During his reign he thus stopped the demolition that had already started all over the country. In Amsterdam there was even a gate: the Haarlemmerpoort. Unfortunately, after his death many cities continued the demolition of city gates, because these were old-fashioned, stood in the way and were expensive in maintenance. Now many cities regret that. Cities they left still, are happy with that. This visionary insight of Willem II I would wish every driver: see what is valuable and keep it, not only for the cause itself, but especially for the people. Not for nothing, I would say, has recently shown that the cities in which people prefer to live are those cities that have really done work on the preservation of their past. First I have some comments on protection in general. The Council of State considers that the Heritage Act does not provide sufficient guarantees for the undesirable alienation of cultural goods in public possession. That is quite a criticism, because that is precisely what the Heritage Act is intended for. There will be a committee of experts which advises the government concerned, but this opinion is not binding. Of course, this advice will not be ignored, but still. Finally, there is the Minister, who can intervene and identify objects as protected cultural property, or destroy the decision to alienate. However, the Council of State notes that the bill does not ensure that the Minister is informed in good time. The Minister doesn't want that, does he? I'd like to hear a response. Another thing the Council of State believes is that the decision of the relevant government is not open to appeal. The Christian Union agrees. We would like to see greater involvement of citizens and organisations here; citizens who have sometimes also contributed financially to a work of art and rightly expect this work to remain accessible to the general public. The Minister is also in favour of civic participation, isn't he? I would also like to hear her reaction to this. The Council of State also advises that the bill should cover cultural objects of bodies other than the Empire, provinces and municipalities. For example, water boards and universities, which are funded by public funds. We also share this view of the Council of State. Colleagues have tabled amendments on all the points I have just mentioned. The Christian Union intends to support these amendments. We shall also co-sign a single amendment. What is striking in the law is that there is talk of a ban on damage, destruction, etc., but that maintenance with the aim of preserving heritage is not the issue. That seems to be a missed opportunity for the Christian Union. We understand that there is a limited amount of case law, which only sees a serious form of neglect. As a result, it is not clear whether enforcement action can be taken in the absence of normal maintenance. The Christian Union considers it important that the law lays down a clear standard. How's the minister looking at this? The PvdA has tabled an amendment on this, and we are considering supporting it. The Christian Union asks the Minister to explain again why she has opted for the present protection regime. The bar's high. It must be about cultural heritage that has both cultural historical or scientific significance and is irreplaceable and indispensable for Dutch cultural heritage. I can imagine that there are objects that meet only one of those criteria, or perhaps not at all, but which are nevertheless interesting. Why has the Minister not opted for an or a provision, so that one of the two criteria is sufficient? The Christian Union would also like to see aesthetics and identity as criteria on the basis of which heritage is given a protected status. How does the Minister view this? We are considering an amendment on this point. An alternative could be to work with the broader criterion of significant value, a concept that can be further developed by experts in the field. Then it can be about cultural historical meaning and irreplaceability, but also about aesthetics. Why didn't the Minister choose that? The bill aims to protect the Dutch cultural heritage. It is unclear whether this also means cultural goods and collections of regional or local significance. The Christian Union believes that this ambiguity should be removed. In addition, we consider it desirable not only to consider the national interest but also regional or local interest in the disposal of cultural goods in the hands of the State, provinces or municipalities. We have tabled an amendment to this effect. In line with this, the Christian Union considers it important that provinces and municipalities should be explicitly entrusted with the task of protecting cultural goods of regional and local significance. We have also tabled amendments to this effect. Of course, many municipalities and provinces will already be aware of this in their policies. For these municipalities and provinces, therefore, our proposal is merely a confirmation of that. However, I only have to look at my own place of residence in order to see, unfortunately, that sometimes people are getting sick of it. We do not want to burden provinces and municipalities with additional workload, but ask to protect that which is appropriate to their regional or local identity. In a globalising world, more and more people attach greater importance to this. I therefore hope that the Minister will support our amendments. I come to the protection of ensembles. The Minister has chosen to describe ensembles only in the explanatory memorandum but not to provide legal protection. The reason for this is that the different components of an ensemble are subject to different protection regimes. For real estate, it can be damaged, for example by remodeling. Moving goods can be moved or sold abroad. I realize that a wardrobe or cabinet in a monumental home of a different caliber than the house itself. A church can have monumental value, apart from the candlestick or quadruple that can be seen in the church. The other way around, however, is that cabinet and candlestick get extra meaning because they can be seen in that house or church. A candlestick is an integral part of the church and liturgy together with other objects. According to Museum Catharijneconvent, research shows that an interior ensemble can be found in as many as 70% of the national monumental religious buildings. For example, Huis Sonneveld in Rotterdam, which is designed as a gesamtkunstwerk and an icon of the new building from the thirties. You should not think that the interior of this special house is replaced by an IKEA-departure, which I do not want to say to the detriment of IKEA. I'd love to go there, too. That yellow bedside table and the orange chairs belong together and on that spot in Huis Sonneveld. In short, the Christian Union believes that ensembles of objects or ensembles of objects in their environment can be so valuable that they deserve legal protection. We do not consider the Minister's efforts to promote knowledge transfer and awareness through the Interiors Programme to be sufficient. That is why we will certainly support and probably co-sign the Labour Party's amendment on this point. The green environment can also be part of an ensemble. I'm thinking of a park, a garden or a city garden. From the field we get signals that many historic parks and especially city gardens are in danger of falling apart. Is the Minister getting these signals and, if so, how does she deal with them? We are considering tabling an amendment on this point. In 2010, the report "National Interior Guard: A Public Case" was published. of the Netherlands Cultural Heritage Agency and Monumentenwacht. The commitment was a nationwide network of interior guards, which helps to protect the interior of national monuments such as castles, churches, homes, farms etc. A year earlier, in 2009, a government policy letter had already been published on the modernisation of monument care, which also mentioned the broadening of the initiative of several provinces for an interior guard. What happened to these intentions in the meantime? Is the Programme Interiors a new translation of this? I come to the Guide for the Rejection of Museum Objects (LAMO), drawn up by the Museum Field itself. The question is whether this guidance is sufficient. On the one hand, the Christian Union is in favour of self-regulation rather than a legally enforceable framework. On the other hand, we also see that things are happening now that society does not understand. The Schoolboys of Marlene Dumas was sold by Museum Gouda to a private person abroad without the use of the LAMO. Other museums have not been given the opportunity to purchase the work. I think it is right that this sale caused a lot of dust at the time. How are we going to prevent this in the future? I'd like a response from the Minister. How does the Minister intend to prevent the rejection of objects from being financially motivated? The VNG has a directive, but museum organisations consider it too broad. I think they're right about that. I'd like a response. Then I come to the mobile heritage. Mobile heritage objects can also have particular cultural or scientific significance. I am thinking of historic ships, aircraft, but also of the Traveling Carillon of De Paltz estate in Utrecht, the largest driving carillon in the world. The Christian Union considers it important that mobile heritage and ensembles of mobile heritage can be given a protected status. Today we read an article in the Volkskrant about the sale of historic ships abroad. The minister says she couldn't have stopped the sale of the ss Rosalie to the transport museum in Istanbul. The Minister referred to the protection already possible under the category of "rotary heritage." Then why are these important historical ships not on the list of protected movable objects, as mentioned in the article? And what about the other mobile heritage? I also read in the note on the basis of the report many financial reasons, such as that a status as a protected heritage would lead to many applications for subsidies. However, the Minister does not support this. I wonder if this assumption is correct. It is important that the Heritage Act recognises that mobile heritage is an important part of our national heritage. I would like to receive a response from the Minister. I come to the city and villagescapes. The Minister seems almost relieved when she states in the note on the report that "there can be a great deal of restraint in the identification of new urban and villagescapes." Is this because the government expects these protected city and villagescapes to be firmly anchored in municipal environmental plans? How will the Minister see to that? The Environment Act states that the minister can instruct the city council for a state-protected city or villagescape. How does that work in practice? I'd like to receive an explanation. Yesterday we discussed the Environment Act in detail. Article 4.28 of the Environment Act states that there are rules on activities relating to cultural heritage which at least prevent the damage or destruction of cultural heritage. Which rules exactly are detailed in an AMvB under the Environmental Act. So we do not have any clarity about this today. Can the Minister imagine that the field is a little concerned? The Christian Union can do that. What does the Minister think of the plea of various organisations to provide clear frameworks under the Erfgoedwet for application in the Environmental Act? We are considering tabling a motion at this point. Clarity is also needed on the route that the Minister for Housing and National Service has used to alienate 34 monument complexes with a heritage function. This will be discussed with the National Monument Organisation (NMo). The NMo is still in being established and the Culture Council has also been asked for advice. Moreover, the alienation of national heritage has considerable consequences. Why is the treatment of the NMo and the proposed alienation not treated at once with the present Heritage Act? I would like to receive a response from the Minister. I'll finish with a quote. "In order to mark the situation in which the monuments of art and history are here on land, the word "wretched" has certainly not been chosen wrongly, so that one may rightly speak of Holland at its narrowest in this field." Those are the words of Victor de Stuers in the article "Holland on his smalst" that appeared in The Guide in 1873. The Stuers, who later became a Member of Parliament for the Roman Catholics, opposed the squandering of our cultural heritage by the government of that time. It is not too much said that De Stuers' appeal marked a turning point in our concern for monuments and cultural heritage. He woke the government from then on up from a "regeration slumber," as he called it. The law we are discussing today is in a good tradition of almost 150 years of managing and protecting our heritage. I wish the Minister every success, wisdom and, above all, caution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u3	Mr. Chairman. The way we look at our heritage changes with time. What was made as an object of use is now a museum piece. What was once forbidden is now on display. What once earned a penny now attracts a million people. Let me give you a few examples. Take the golden carriage, a gift from the inhabitants of Amsterdam to Queen Wilhelmina in honor of her inauguration. One of the panels now reminds us of a black page in history, but was still proudly called "Hold of Colonies." Or take the Rijksmuseum. This had a top year in 1996 with the exhibition De ugly tijd. The aim, re-evaluation for furniture and art from the second half of the nineteenth century, was thus achieved. During the Nazi regime, all art that did not meet the demands of national socialism was referred to as "entartete kunst." After a sort of travelling farewell exhibition, the pieces were sold far below cost and from the proceeds Aryan art was purchased for the German museums. What wasn't sold was burned. Also in the Netherlands art policy during the war was determined by the occupier. Art purchases from that time were still on display in Arnhem this year at the exhibition called "Georde kunst. State-bought '40-'45'. Other debates highlight the terrible human suffering, but also heritage can suffer greatly from a change of regime. In Syria and Iraq, IS fighters use drilling and demolition hammers to attack art treasures. What has been seen as valuable for centuries, as a tangible reminder of the oldest civilizations, is considered blasphemous. Not only the TV images of these destructions go all over the world, the images themselves. The ancient objects are very popular with collectors, and thus become a commodity, which co-finances the struggle. It makes the vulnerability of heritage painfully clear. This brings me to my first questions. What opportunities does our Minister see for countering trade in these art treasures from Syria and Iraq? What happens when these are found in the Netherlands? Is there an active search for it, and how many people are involved in it? I'd like a response. Although there is a completely different situation in the Netherlands, and we are in a luxurious position here too, we have an expensive duty to think carefully about preserving and protecting our heritage. Moreover, I realise that safety is not a matter of course. After all, it is only 70 years since De Nachtwacht lay hidden in the marl caves, where the package had to be rotated daily to prevent the cloth from damaging or sticking. The Heritage Act must protect our rich cultural past for future generations, but such a law must be based on the question: what is our heritage? In my view, that is what is perceptible to us, the tangible past that we want to pass on to future generations. We do this because heritage is valuable and values-full. Heritage shows what binds us and what separates us and how we have become as we are. Heritage sometimes shows us how we don't want to be. But we can only remember that when we bear the evidence in mind. Recently two immense bronze horses have been found in Germany. The horses were made by Hitler's favorite sculptor and showed off in the backyard of the Rijkskanselarij. They came into Russian hands and were preserved instead of melted down. After the fall of the Wall they were resold, reportedly for €10,000 and a bottle of vodka, and came into possession of rich Nazi sympathizers. Now that the horses have been taken from the obscurity, the question arises: does this belong in a museum? Is it heritage? Should we protect these colossal horses now because they are a symbol of the once powerful Third Reich? Not only does time affect how we see the heritage, but also the story behind the heritage plays a part. Huis Doorn is a charming castle but is also the last residential and resting place of the last German emperor: grande histoire, real European history, on the Utrecht Hill Ridge. I'm glad I just read on the NOS that the Ministry is planning to raise 3 million for the refurbishing of the park around it. Unfortunately, the emperor can no longer help with a bit of lumberchopping, but I am very happy that this is considered an ensemble. The mirror of the Royal Charles ship, recently shown in the film about Michiel de Ruyter, reminds us of the Netherlands that ruled the world seas. Such things can make us experience the historical sensation, as described by Johan Huizinga. In addition, there is very valuable non-tastable heritage: carnival, Sint-Maarten, Leidens Absorbed, and perhaps I'll also say here: Saint Nicholas. Should we not at least ask ourselves whether protection is needed here, I also ask the Minister. I do not think this is the right way to go about things. I think this is step 1: trying to define what our heritage is. Without definition, you can either keep everything or throw it away. I do miss the answer to that question, which lacks the vision behind the law. Therefore, the following questions. How do we determine what we see as heritage? Why keep one and not the other? How do we ensure that this process is as careful as possible and that time, time and political colour influence this as little as possible? I believe that the many extensive responses from the heritage sector show that there is a need for a more fundamental, comprehensive approach to heritage. I would like to have an extensive reflection from the Minister on this. Merging existing legislation in order to achieve a single integrated law encourages my group. I also see it as an opportunity; an opportunity that unfortunately has not yet been fully exploited. The existing legislation has been merged but still lacks coherence. It has been merged, but not enough has been added. There's too many loose ends. One of these loose ends is that only art in the possession of the government, province or municipality will be protected by this law. But as far as I am concerned, the starting point must be the art itself and the question whether that art should be preserved. That is why I have tabled an amendment to ensure that all public art property is covered by the Heritage Act, irrespective of its owner. In this way, for example, the heritage of waterboards and universities is also protected. That's how Franeker used to have a college, but it's been dissolved. Who takes care of our heritage in such a case? Or take the waterboards. In 1950 there were 2600 and now there are 24. All these mergers involve relocations and trade-offs. An old wisdom is: seven moving times equals one fire. I would like a response from the Minister to the amendment. Will he also comment on what I believe should be the purpose of the law: to preserve important public art property for our country regardless of which government may call itself owner?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u4	I wonder if D66 believes that much more heritage needs to be added to the cultural heritage that already exists. When I hear the argument like that, there are all kinds of instances to be added. We already have 140.00 attributes and 63.000 buildings. We have a great deal of difficulty in financing this whole thing. What is the picture of the D66 of the future when we say that everything that is in possession of a waterboard or university heritage is also?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u5	That's where I think the difference of insight between D66 and the VVD begins. I don't want to call it a mistake. I don't see these governments as owners. I see them as managers. In some cases, I see them as an accidental owner. Collections have sometimes been purchased by the government but sometimes also donated. As a donor, you actually have no other option but to give the collection to the government, whereas you actually donate it to the public interest. If the governments have accepted these donations, they also have an expensive task. I find the term "owner" easy. Honestly, I don't care if the art is in the public service or hangs somewhere on a ministry.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u6	We are talking to the Minister, and we are just adopting this law to agree procedures with each other. It lays down where works of art, monuments must comply to be incorporated into the national heritage. When we say that everything that is not in the possession of a private person is national heritage, I would like to hear from D66 how we are going to record, track, finance in the future and how we are going to do all the other things that come with it. Is it not much wiser to instruct the Minister to weigh the uniqueness of our property and then to allow it to flow through a procedure into our national heritage?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u7	I am going to surprise Mr Van Veen by saying that I also believe that there should be a possibility of rejection. However, I now notice that we have a riot when this happens in an important work in Gouda, but it does not happen when many city halls, universities and also local antiquities rooms clean up. It's not always unwillingness, it's not always ignorance, it can also be ignorance. We'll be on the evaluation committees in a minute. The most important thing is that it should not matter where something is, but that the whole process of purchasing, managing and possibly rejecting should be transparent. That's where we should find each other. We should not let it depend on who manages it or who pays the bill of maintenance. In the end, that's what we are as a total. I do not care whether it comes from the Municipal Fund through the government and taxes or whether it comes from the Empire directly from a budget. In fact, I will come back to that concept of ownership later. Governments and museums have overcrowded depots and these costs not only money, but also have another disadvantage, as de Volkskrant wrote in an article on the rise of private museums. Artists do not like to store their work in dark depots, however beautiful the other paintings on the theorem are. It is estimated that less than 5% of the work per year in the public collections reaches the exhibition space. This also makes donating to museums less attractive. Museums have recently had to cut back on their curators and thus on scientific research and thus on the knowledge of their collection. In addition, exhibitions are becoming increasingly "safe," a trend which is, moreover, visible throughout the cultural field. Blockbusters must be the ones in which paintings prevail. The space for small, specific exhibitions, which may attract fewer visitors, is likely to disappear. An exhibition on glass collections or silver, which was approved by the local guilds until 1814, is therefore less and less interesting. The knowledge disappears and with that also the appreciation. The craftsmanship in too many Dutch museums is loveless, at most as a representative of a style period. We do not have enough of our rich collections. Is the Minister prepared to investigate how museums have cut back on knowledge and skills over the past ten to twenty years and how their scientific mission has developed? At the universities, too, it's bar and angry. Many professors of art history, especially arts and crafts, have not found a successor. How does the Minister see the rise of private museums? With the disappearance of the curators, knowledge of what is in the house also disappears. Think of it as an attic where you don't know exactly what's actually dusting. The more generations living in the house, the more boxes, old newspapers, drawings and crockery end up in the attic. If you don't remember what's in there, who's gonna use it? So it's good to take stock of what you have, what you want to keep and what you can get away with. Sometimes there's so much that you don't see the forest through the trees anymore, and that increases the chance that you take away something of value. That's why I advocate carefully decollecting. The committee of experts proposed in this law is a start, but we are not there yet. I see some problems that do not contribute to the desired care. It is up to the repellent party to decide whether the opinion of the Committee of Experts is necessary at all. It may then set up the Committee of Experts itself and finally decide whether the opinion should be followed at all. I call that "fake protection" or "three times a wash nose." Does the Minister understand these concerns? Unwilled people can decide not to set up a committee or a friendly committee. Besides unwillingness, incompetence is also lurking. Not every government has specialists who can value an art object. In 2005, for example, the Haags Gemeentemuseum offered a flower still life of one Mackoff, asking for €1,000. Fortunately, the auction house was more attentive. The painting was by Mashkov, a leading Russian painter. The final proceeds were 3.3 million. And that was the Hague Gemeentemuseum. I hold my heart for the Ancient Room of Kollum and Albrandswaard. I don't want to accuse him of unwillingness or ignorance, but ignorance is lurking. Not only smaller governments can drop. Last week, the royal couple took scholarships with them to Canada, immediately after the liberation, the government gave this country our only top piece of Hobbema without consulting art connoisseurs. That the recent donor of a beautiful Hobbema to the Rijksmuseum made the condition that the painting always hangs on the floor and should never be sold, is not surprising in that light. The moral of this story: the government is not always an expert, reliable party. This means that the process of alienation should be as transparent and objective as possible. I would like to emphasise that I am not against decollecting or selling. That, as a former auctioneer, would also go against my nature. Maybe they're a little shocked that I'm operating here today as an old auctioneer and now I'm treating the Erfgoedwet: as long as that goes well. But don't worry, I've also been in the Laken Hall in Leiden for seven years. So I like not only the sale, but also the art in the room and I am prepared to guard it. I insist that the sale of public property to a private person or abroad is done carefully. It concerns public art, often gifts from private individuals, given to a government, but intended for the general public, not as an additional income for a government, but as an addition to a collection and for everyone. Can the Minister confirm that many donors did not know and still do not know that they do not give to a museum, but to a government? What exactly is the alternative? If there is no alternative, then surely it cannot be that a government does not offer the highest level of protection? I would also like to have an extensive reflection from the Minister on this. A register in which the intention to dispose of the property is published and justified shall ensure that transparency. Whether advice from an expert committee is needed remains the opinion of the relevant government, but that decision can now be taken on the basis of advice from third parties. Does the Minister agree with me that this will help to ensure greater transparency? I would also like to add some extra care to the next step in the process. If the Committee of Experts finds that there is a cultural heritage of great scientific and cultural historical value which is irreplaceable and indispensable for the Netherlands, this judgment can be ignored. This must be reported to the Minister, but immediately after the notification, so the same day, the cultural goods can be disposed of. The cultural heritage can already be in Spain while the Minister has not even read the opinion. My proposal is to give the Minister longer time to assess the notification and possibly destroy the decision. This avoids the issue of restitution. Can the Minister agree to this? On another point, too, I am considering an amendment. Can the Minister, therefore, explain clearly why she has opted for the high threshold condition "unmissable and irreplaceable"?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u8	Now we finally come back to ownership and the will to sell or not sell something. Does Mr Pechtold agree with me that we are running a very serious risk that, if we do what he proposes, we will have a great deal of opportunism in this law? I mean that it is only when someone wants to sell a heritage that one wakes up and says 'this is so important, we should never sell it', while we aim to ensure that the Minister knows in good time that something is rich and must therefore also be covered by this law. I am afraid that Mr Pechtold will not come to the point that we will soon have appointed everything as a national heritage and that municipalities, water boards, universities and anyone who does not own art as a private person will no longer be able to sell it, because we first have to go to the minister to ask if she thinks it is of great importance. I believe that this is a matter of great importance and I hope that Mr Pechtold will agree with me. I think the Ministry's records are sufficient.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u9	What is your question to Mr Pechtold?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u10	I think I put three indirectly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u11	I don't need a question to respond to this, you know. I want to make a distinction anyway. What's in private possession is that I'm going to be on this list right now. It's a very special list. In everything else, the question may be asked: is the government the owner, or the administrator, or the one it ended up with because there was no alternative? In all these cases, I think it is important that we should be able to meet Mr Van Veen by means of transparency on this point. Around that committee, I found three things wrong. It is up to you to decide whether you want a committee at all. I do not want to say that they are malicious, but they can be friends, and then the committee's opinion can be ignored. If the deadline gets longer, it can't happen that the minister accidentally didn't read the mail for a day and the piece has already been sold abroad. Mr Van Veen and I are on the same side as it can get away, but I do not want to have a feeling of regret afterwards, or a feeling of panic because we have to respond within 24 hours.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u12	I don't want to say that everything can go away. I want municipal councils to be able to decide for themselves whether or not they want to sell good. We must ensure that local authorities no longer accept certain art objects because we have incorporated into a law a huge number of restrictions on that right after that, while the Minister has not even said that it is of great importance and therefore of great importance. Can Mr Pechtold reflect on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u13	Mr Van Veen is running out of time here. When Hilversum wanted to sell the Mondrian, we were all on our back legs, because it was very clear. In the meantime, however, incredibly much is happening. However, we cannot see what the other governments are doing. I never talk about local authorities. Sometimes something of greater importance than that of the municipality of Hilversum. The municipalities must therefore be helped. It is not always unwilling, there can also be ignorance that cannot make the balance right and transparent. This country isn't that big. We do not have that many institutions. In this respect, I commend what we have now, but I do not know what will happen in the meantime. That is why we must also look at the contribution of the Christian Union to the local, regional or other interests that may exist. I do not see what else I would like to see tested together with Mr van Veen, which would result in an enormous bureaucracy. Those who want to intervene will do so in the final instance, but transparency ensures that it is going well. I spoke about the threshold conditions: indispensable and irreplaceable. Is a Rembrandt irreplaceable and indispensable? I'm setting the bar very high on purpose right now. I would like a comprehensive response from the Minister. Next, a comment on a careful procedure for the alienation of our public art property. I would like to endorse Mrs Keijzer's amendment, which includes the possibility of appeal and appeal. So far I have talked about our public art property, but also in private hands there is much that is important for the Dutch collection. If it is right, this is on the Wbc list, but I get the impression that this list is not very representative and is very ad hoc and random. A few wooden carts, a rotating organ, a kayak, the complete inventory of the Russian Orthodox church, manuscripts, books and some of Rembrandt's paintings. Is that the top of our heritage now? Where's the connection? I would like to hear from the Minister what is on the Wbc list and how that list is kept. When was the last time anything was added to this list? Is this cleaned up regularly? Since recently, the list has been public. That is a good development. On top of that, I would like to see an annual report on our cultural heritage in the budget of OCW. Did anything fall off the list or just add it? Let us give the list of the highlights of the Netherlands the attention it deserves. I would like to receive a response to this proposal. The Netherlands has the largest historical fleet in the world. The fact that we are proud of this is evident at Sail Amsterdam, an event with more than 1.5 million visitors and the most beautiful ships from home and abroad. This year's slogan is: from golden past to golden future. Does this law actually contribute to a golden future of our sailing heritage? The state of our mobile heritage is still very good thanks to the commitment of many volunteers, or as the Minister puts it: excellent. For that reason, she doesn't interfere too much. Now the problem does not seem to lie in a lack of interference by the Minister of OCW, but in an excess of rules from other ministries. Take the historic ships. Because they do not have official heritage status, they must comply with all the rules that apply to contemporary ships, but these requirements are not always feasible for historic ships, they require substantial investments or they affect cultural historical value. This is threatening our unique fleet. How does the Minister intend to prevent this regulation from damaging our mobile heritage? Is she prepared to take a directing role in this? In addition to caring for our mobile heritage, which we have to take extra care of because, if we are not careful, this is what drives, flies or sails our country, we also care for monuments. At first glance these look nice, but I have the impression that often only the outer wall is looked at. But a vintage watch whose closet is still pointy but the watch is brand new, really loses its value and a beautiful oldtimer without a motor doesn't get far either. This attention to the outside was recently made clear in Rotterdam. There one was in a stir when the outer walls of a national monument were painted white, but whether inside the ceiling ornaments are still there or whether they have been replaced by system ceilings, is difficult to control. In this particular case, something special is happening which may be more common: a consulate is located in the monument in question. In response to previous questions from Mr Bergkamp, the Minister said that the Dutch law applies to the building. What does that mean in practice when enforcement is not possible because the consulate enjoys immunity? How many national monuments is an embassy or consulate located in? Earlier, the Minister could not answer this question. Can she still figure this out? How does it intend to ensure that foreign owners are sufficiently aware of the responsibility inherent in the possession of a national monument? Simply refer to the websites culturalerfgoed.nl and monuments.nl does not seem sufficient. The Angolan consulate in Rotterdam was not aware of the need for a permit for white people. Good information, also focused on a foreign owner, can prevent damage. To prevent damage to monuments, I also tabled an amendment to the Environment Act. This includes a general conservation obligation for owners under the motto: you have to repair the roof when the sun is still shining. By including this in the law, owners can be prevented from deliberately neglecting their monuments. This benefits the state of our heritage. Mr Monasch will confirm that. Mr Monasch and I are also in agreement on another point, namely the desire to protect monuments and their interiors, the ensembles, in conjunction. The whole is more than the sum of its parts. Sometimes it goes so far that Anne Frank's diary belongs, as far as I'm concerned, in The Secret Annex. Shouldn't the table at which the capitulation was drawn be inextricably linked to Hotel De Wereld in my Wageningen? And wouldn't the bookcase of Hugo de Groot be better in place in Loevestein Castle than in the Rijksmuseum? Although the thought that he left with it can also be supported. I'd like to get a reaction to this. An object or interior can belong in a monument, but a monument can also belong in its surroundings. For example, castles, mills, forts and farms are often part of a landscape. How does the Minister view an integrated protection of cultural and green heritage? That desired integral protection brings me back to the law as a whole. It is good that different laws are merged and that one clear law is sought to protect our heritage, but the original laws are still too much based on what is needed for the future. I hope that today the Minister will tell us more about her vision behind the law and that she can tell us what the law means by "heritage." After all, this can contribute to the answer to the difficult question of what to protect and what not. That much discussion is possible on this question, let us be clear, but we will not escape its answer. Major changes are coming towards us, which require a vision of heritage more than ever. Archbishop Wim Eijk assumes that the Archdiocese of Utrecht will have no more than twenty churches in fifteen years' time. Now there's 300 more. So we need a law that is future-proof and ambitious. A law that protects our heritage, as much as possible independently of time, the spirit of time or the political color. Let's discuss that today.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u14	Madam President. In a judicial investigation, the detectives are looking for DNA to solve a case better. A trace of DNA puts us on the right track. DNA provides a wealth of information. In a way, you could also talk about cultural heritage. From the Nieuwe Kerk in Middelburg to the Planetarium in Franker, from the State Bible in the Catharijneconvent to a tugboat in Leeuwarden: our cultural heritage tells us who we are. Our cultural heritage forms the way we experience our identity and bears traces of our identity, of how we have become so. There is therefore every reason to be extremely sparing on cultural heritage and to take care of it. We have inherited it from the past: this is what the cultural heritage bill describes. In addition, the pressing question arises as to whether there is also a legacy that does not belong to you from the past, but that is more of a linguistic issue. The SGP has a lot of appreciation for the Heritage Act submitted by the government. A few points still deserve an accent. I'd like to check it out now. I'll start with the mobile heritage. I agree with a number of comments made by previous speakers. On King's Day we were able to see which historic ships and planes are to be found in Dordrecht and surroundings alone. Interest in such mobile heritage is high. In the same city, as many as 250,000 people each year come to the Dordt event in Steam. Unfortunately, the legal recognition is stark against this popularity. Rules for modern ships are simply applied to pre-war vessels. For example, there is a plan to introduce a minimum speed of 13 km/h for historic ships, ships that have never been able to sail faster than 6, 7 or 8 km/h for a lifetime. If this continues, many historic ships will be chained up. What concrete plans does the government have to prevent this and to make real room in the European directive? And is the Minister prepared to take the lead in other departments and Europe to prevent this kind of foreign regulation from being seen from the point of view of cultural heritage? It is now also very difficult to obtain funding for mobile heritage, especially if that heritage does not have a protected status. Financial institutions see a historic ship as just a yacht. It would therefore help the mobile heritage if the Heritage Act explicitly recognised its individual status. I would like to receive a response from the Minister to my amendment on the subject. I'm just thinking about the owners of monuments. What is the responsibility of the owner of a monument? That question is currently under discussion, but there is also a lot of clarity. An owner may not actively or passively neglect a monument. This means that the monument must be kept at least windproof and waterproof. Fortunately, the government thinks that this is a good starting point, but still creates some confusion. The legislative proposal introduces a definition of normal maintenance. These are necessary, regular work, aimed at maintaining the monumental value. However, the question is why this definition is introduced, while it is not further applied in the legislative proposal. Is the proposed bill intended that owners should not have a duty of normal maintenance, or is this an omission? I would like to have a more detailed explanation of this. The SGP Group considers it important that owners are expected to take into account the uniqueness of a monument. In law, this is now called "the use." However, the suggestion has been made that the use no longer constitutes a counterpart to the legitimate interests of the owner, but is part of it. Is that really the point? I would like to receive a response from the Minister. The Environment Act also states that use should be promoted, taking into account monumental values. My final point concerns ensembles. Heritage that belongs together, should stay together for a while. In special cases, we should provide that a monument and associated cultural goods should remain together. Examples have been given, such as House Doorn. Also Castle Amerongen is such a beautiful ensemble. However, the Minister finds the designation of an ensemble complicated, because an inventory of the components has to be made. The question is whether this inventory is already there and if not, whether it should not be there as a matter of urgency. Can the Minister explain why this is an objection to the designation of an ensemble, whereas this inventory is also involved in the designation of a collection? In any case, the SGP Group wants the registration and identification of ensembles to be improved. With the amendment in part No. 20 is intended to ensure that ensembles are identifiable in the National Monument Register and the Decree on Designation of Cultural Goods and Collections. I'd like to hear the Minister's response. I'm closing up, much sooner than you thought, Mr. Chairman. Our cultural heritage forms the DNA of our society and our identity. We're the carriers of that DNA. That places a great responsibility on us. I believe that this legislative proposal provides a good incentive to give substance to the responsibilities that we temporarily carry as passers-by. Mr President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u15	Thank you very much, you will never hear a President complain if you use less speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u16	Mr. Chairman. Culture gives shine to objects, people and ideas by placing them in isolation or in a different light. Art and culture give space to talent, skill and creativity. Putting art and culture to thinking, contributing to development, connecting. They connect people and hold a mirror in front of them. In short, art and culture make the world more beautiful, exciting and interesting. Heritage is one of the most visible forms of our culture. It is often literally around the corner and makes you feel at home in the beautiful church building, the regional museum with archaeological finds from the area but certainly also.. I grew up in a fishing village.. the historical boner in the harbor. In this perspective also the brooch I have on, a Volendammer knot. All these things have a huge value for maintaining their own local and regional identity. In addition, heritage provides a more pleasant environment and often has an important economic value in the form of tourism or otherwise. For the CDA, these are all reasons why we believe it is of the utmost importance that heritage is preserved as well as possible throughout the Netherlands, for ourselves but certainly also for future generations. It is a good thing that we have a single law on heritage, which sets out clearly how we all deal with our heritage and how we protect it. Much of what is in the law is a bundling of existing legislation. This gives us the opportunity to fully review the entire heritage policy today. We have noticed a number of issues which I believe should be given more attention. Sometimes the Minister takes a step in the right direction, but she may be a little more ambitious as far as the CDA is concerned. I am referring to the rules governing the sale of art from public art, the protection of ensembles and mobile heritage and the designation of post-war heritage. On some points, the CDA does not see any movement at all with the Minister, for example when it comes to the position of volunteers in the preservation of monuments. Finally, the CDA calls for more commitment from this Minister and her colleague from the Economic Affairs Department to preserve monuments in the earthquake area in Groningen. I walk by the different points one at a time. The first concerns the withdrawal of art from public art. Monumental buildings generally have good legal protection in our country. However, for works of art, i.e. the moving heritage, there is still room for improvement, because especially in the case of moving heritage, careful protection is necessary as a painting can be sold more easily from a building than to a wealthy private individual at home or abroad, with the result that this valuable art is no longer accessible to the public. The artifact can then definitely no longer be visited by the general public in the Netherlands, because what has been sold is most likely never to come back. The sale of public art property also has an important downside. It harms the trust of the private patronage, the art protectors who support museums along all kinds of paths. There are also more and more of these in the Netherlands. Purchased works of art are donated to the government and managed by museums. It is assumed that the donations will always be and remain visible to everyone. Uncertainty about legal safeguards can lead to mistrust and a reduced motivation to contribute to public art property. This is a real problem. It has been mentioned earlier today, but I will mention it again. The municipality of Hilversum sold a painting by Mondrian in 1987 with the aim of restoring the Gooiland complex. Recently, in 2013, the municipality of Gouda did the same with a painting by Dumas, with the aim of renewing the municipal museum. At the moment, the World Museum Rotterdam is in the process of rejecting most of the collection with the aim of reducing its dependence on subsidies. There is therefore every reason to deal very carefully with sales, rather, withdrawal of moving heritage. Self-regulation alone does not offer optimal protection. The Minister took a step in the right direction by regulating in the Erfgoedwet that a decision to withdraw should also weigh the importance of the donors, but that is not enough for the CDA. We want a decision to sell to be open to opposition and appeal. The existence of an administrative procedure is based on preventive action in the decision-making process on the removal of art. If this stick is missing behind the door, there is also less care guarantee. That is why I have tabled an amendment. This ensures that the possibility of objection and appeal is open to alienating protected heritage or a collection by the State, Deputy States or the College of Mayors and Aldermen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u17	I would like to ask the CDA where the limit is for appeals and objections to proposed sales. The bill already states that the Minister must be called in at the time when it is a state heritage. Is the CDA now suggesting that municipalities and provinces should always report this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u18	What are you talking about? Everywhere in the country there are all kinds of volunteers who contribute to art and culture. These are not the people with a lot of money, but ordinary Dutch people who are involved in art and culture and in their environment. "The friends of..." we know them all as far as we are not a member of them ourselves. Now a procedure has been set out in the law to ascertain whether there is any alienation of heritage with a particular cultural or scientific significance, irreplaceable and indispensable for Dutch cultural property, but there is no procedure for ordinary Dutchman, the ordinary citizen who is specifically involved in the relevant heritage. With this, you're gonna make sure they get a position in this law, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u19	In many municipalities and provinces the CDA is also represented. Does the CDA not agree with me that municipalities and provinces can simply draw up a heritage regulation of their own in which agreements are made with the city council with the population about the procedures to be followed when, for example, a painting is sold by a municipality? Is the CDA not confident enough that the municipal councils and municipal authorities themselves can make that assessment, rather than imposing it from The Hague?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u20	I do not see this as imposing something, but as giving a position to interested citizens, who are involved in the art and culture in their municipality and very specifically on a protected cultural property. That's what this looks like. I very much hope that the VVD Group also wants to see it this way and that the VVD also wants to give those people, who contribute with soul and salvation to art and culture, and in this particular case to protected cultural goods, a position in that process. I'll be on the ensembles. From the protection of artifacts I go to a category that does not seem to receive any legal protection under the law: the ensembles. For ensembles in which moving and real estate heritage form a whole, no separate designation as heritage is made possible, so the interior is not protected. That is a pity, because an interior is often an important part of the whole. The CDA lacks an integrated approach to building and interior, real estate and real estate. After all, a building is made for the interior, to dwell, to celebrate, to produce or to rule; you name it. This is reflected in the interior. Why is an integrated approach not reflected in the law? Now a building remains a stand-alone monument and a work of art a stand-alone object, while in many cases the whole is more than the sum of its parts. The combination makes the whole thing special. Is it not true that the 1994 Granada Convention made a commitment by the Dutch Government to protect the interior of monuments as well? Article 1 of that Convention defines the monument as all buildings of remarkable historical, archaeological, artistic, scientific, social or technical interest, including the associated equipment. I would like to receive a response from the Minister. The CDA would like to see the top of valuable ensembles as part of built heritage in the Netherlands protected, so that the Empire does not cooperate in the possible auction of the valuable individual interiors or parts thereof. Is the Minister prepared to draw up a list of top ensembles which would certainly deserve protection, so that these ensembles also have a protected status? For example, the Beurs van Berlage, the Portuguese synagogue or Saint John in Den Bosch. Other valuable interiors of castles, courtyards, churches and houses could also be eligible for such a list. The initiative to get to this list could lie with the RCE, in collaboration with relevant knowledge partners, such as Museum Catharijneconvent, the Bond Heemschut and the Foundation Het Nederlandse Interieur. There is also a great opportunity to involve the public in drawing up such a list. If the top of valuable interior sembles get protection, that protection can be regulated as well as with real estate heritage. Some of my colleagues have already spoken about this. The CDA Group is considering tabling a motion, but also in view of previous speakers, that might be something to do together. I'll come to the mobile heritage. Not only ensembles seem to be under-protected in the Heritage Act. The same seems to apply to mobile heritage. Historical ships, oldtimers and other gems from patriotic history are not protected enough. This morning on the radio it was about locomotives. In general, the Heritage Act applies to the entire heritage in our country, including the flying, sailing and rolling heritage. Does the Minister share that? Is this also covered by the definition provision in the law? However, the question is whether this offers sufficient protection in practice. Like works of art, mobile heritage can also easily be sold to a party abroad. One example is the sale of the well-known Dutch subsidy money restored steam tug from Maassluis to a Turkish museum two years ago. In the written answer to our questions on this subject, the Minister states that the procedure set out in Article 4.2 of the law also applies to the disposal of mobile heritage. Does the Minister see that it is very difficult to use this procedure if you do not have registration of the relevant mobile heritage? Isn't there a need for a clue as a protected heritage first? Is the Minister considering identifying mobile heritage as a protected heritage? If it is then considered to designate mobile heritage as a protected heritage, should the owner not be asked for permission? Many of these mobile heritages have been maintained by private individuals, with private money. They do not appear to be covered by Article 3.9, which states that permission should be sought from the owner. We are talking, for example, about ships where people live. I would like to hear the Minister's response to this. We must also realise that, if we then proceed with the designation of mobile heritage as a protected heritage, you must report it if you are going to move it. Do you see that on a boat? I do know that this does not apply to relocation within the Netherlands. But how fast are you at the Dutch border? You'll have to wait six weeks for permission. I would like to hear a response from the Minister. I would also like to draw attention to the list of bottlenecks that the Dutch Mobile Collection Foundation sent to the Chamber. This has been discussed before. All kinds of rules we impose are almost ridiculous for modern commercial means of transport or for modern ships in which they live. Well, let me just call them that. My next topic is the reasoning description. I'll take it to the monuments. In most cases these are buildings. Civil engineering objects such as bridges or religious objects can also be designated as monuments. For owners it is important to know the reason for the description of the monument. The reason for this description is the instrument used as the basis for the protection of an object as a monument. The description also shows how far the government can then go with intervention. This is demonstrated by a ruling of the Administrative Law Department of the Council of State of 22 October 2014. This results in which aspects of the monument are particularly protective. From this point of view, it can then be deduced which aspects do not have a monumental value. These can therefore be changed by the owner. It is therefore important that this description is correct. However, the problem is that the RCE is lagging behind in the current file of reasoned descriptions. Several monument organizations are facing problems. These occur especially when changes take place at the monument. Building permits then beaches because the Empire has not indicated what the real monumental value of the property is. There is an urgent need to catch up within one or two years at most. The Minister acknowledges in the written reply that the way in which monuments are recorded and described in the National Monument Register is insufficient in a number of cases. It states that the RCE is responsible for keeping the register. Improvements are being prepared by the Ministry. Can the Minister state the state of play? Will the backlog really be overtaken within one or two years? Is the Minister prepared to pay the expenses if the large monument organizations themselves make a reasoned description? Ultimately, it is a national task, which is now not sufficiently filled by the Empire, with the result that monument owners are duped. I come to the reconstruction site and the clue to monuments. I have noticed that of what was built after 1945, almost nothing has been designated as a national monument, while during the reconstruction period many picturesque buildings have been built that may have monumental value. The intention of the Empire so far has been to protect only a selection of the absolute top as a national monument and to have the rest regulated by provinces and municipalities. The Minister is right to say that this is partly successful. Municipalities such as Groningen, Zwolle, Den Bosch and The Hague have made serious efforts to protect after-war heritage. However, the problem is that by far the majority of municipalities and provinces are still not doing enough in this area. Many very important post-war buildings do not yet have any form of protection under this policy. In order to preserve this post-war heritage for the Netherlands, a clearer commitment of the Empire is needed as far as the CDA is concerned. The CDA asks the Minister to show more ambition in its designation policy. Is it prepared to present a comprehensive vision on the conservation and protection of this post-war heritage this year, as recommended by the Culture Council in its opinion of 4 July 2013? This involves both an intensification of the designation programme for monuments from 1945-1965 and the launching of a designation programme for the period 1959-1965. I come to the volunteers in relation to the Decree on State subsidy conservation monuments 2013 (Brim). During the last modification of the Brim, the CDA has made hard efforts to ensure that the work of volunteers can count in its own income when applying for such a Brim grant. We all know it: many volunteers contribute to the preservation of national monuments. Sometimes this happens in the area of supervision, sometimes it happens many times more practical by handling the hammer or brush. It is precisely because organisations working with many volunteers often find it difficult to meet the 50% own contribution to conservation that a model could be developed that capitalises on the hours spent by volunteers for maintenance. The Minister gave a disappointing response to this plan at the time. According to her, it can legally, but 'if we do this, we will make the scheme more complicated than it is now'. That's why it wasn't done. For the CDA this is difficult to understand. For the CDA, it is extremely valuable that volunteers do so much in our society. In fact, with a lot of national monuments, it even makes the difference for maintaining it. What is ultimately more important: the monuments and the people or the system? Who would it work for? The use of volunteers should be rewarded more. The Minister writes that it is legally possible to arrange it, the Federation Conservation Monuments (FIM) has even developed a very simple model to do it, yet the Minister writes to the Chamber that it does not do it. I call on the Minister once again to ensure that volunteers can count in their own income when applying for a Brim grant. It's not that complicated. I'm hoping for a positive sound. Otherwise, there's nothing more to do than file another motion. I come to the Brim and the green maintenance in relation to the POM status. This policy field also has many abbreviations. An organisation with a POM status is given priority when applying for a Brim grant. I'm glad I just gave all the meanings of all those abbreviations and I hope everyone can still reproduce them. My question to the Minister is as follows. Is it true that there are more and more organizations with a POM status? We are getting signals that it is difficult for many individuals to obtain the POM status, with the result that they are not eligible for such a subsidy. Knowledge and skills are often present, but they are difficult to qualify on paper. A private owner who has not placed his property in a legal person is not eligible at all, no matter how professional he manages his property. As an example, I would like to mention the private gardens at the Middichten castle. These gardens have been privately maintained for several centuries in a very professional manner. The subsidy was transferred from the then Ministry of LNV to the Ministry of OCW in 2010 to the Brim scheme. Now, however, this organisation is almost obliged to place the maintenance in an e.g. so that at least such an application can be submitted. Does the Minister agree with me that this is not a desirable situation? Can it examine whether the scheme can be adapted in such a way that the POM status can be applied for not only by legal persons but also by institutions meeting the same requirements? Then I come to the eighth subject: archaeology. Some changes have also been made in the field of archaeology. LTO Nederland wrote a few weeks ago that the administrative costs of archaeological research in the event of soil disruption are completely out of control. The LTO rightly states that care for the protection of important archaeological values in soil must be proportionate and well-founded. This subject has to do with the Heritage Act, but must be dealt with first and foremost in the Environment Act. That's why I'm gonna leave it for now. However, I would like to announce that the CDA is considering submitting an amendment in the context of the Environment Act which regulates the preparation of archaeological values and expectations, maps and the transfer to planning rules on the basis of explicit, current and specific local archaeological and soil information. The members of the CDA Group are asking for a response to the VNG's remark that the transition to certification for archaeology could lead to a reduction in civic participation and the elimination of smaller, local organisations. We all know them: the amateur archaeologists, the volunteers who have a passion for this. Isn't this about ordinary people digging around in their free time in their front or backyard or in another piece of land? Article 5.1 is rather explicit. It forbids excavation. The second paragraph states that there are cases in which a general measure of governance can waive this ban, but how will the Minister do this? In the written answers to the questions put by the CDA group, it did not immediately appear that the Minister felt this issue. Would it not be wiser to allow this ban to be applied in areas designated as special archaeological sites in zoning plans? 'Cause it's a big deal. The law has an explicit prohibition that is quite broad. If you read through, you can see that this subject is covered by the Law on Economic Crimes. The fines aren't very tender. I hope for a response from the Minister that we can work with. Otherwise, we are considering tabling an amendment. I have three topics left. I am now ready for the ninth: the heritage in the earthquake area in Groningen. As in the other regions of the Netherlands, in Groningen, heritage is essential for the preservation of one's own culture and identity. In this region there are many monuments that are damaged. It is difficult to strengthen these buildings without violating the monumental status of the building. The CDA believes that there is an important task for the Empire, the Province and the NAM to ensure the preservation of the heritage in this region. In the written reply, the Minister states that, together with the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Province of Groningen, she is examining how best to use the resources for monuments. What's the status of this investigation? How is the RCE's knowledge of monuments involved in strengthening monuments in the earthquake area? The archives are not covered by the Heritage Act but continue to be covered by the Archive Act. However, individual archives may also be heritage, which will also apply the provisions of the Heritage Act. The display and public access of heritage may in this case conflict with provisions of the Copyright Act. An example is the municipality of Leiden, where the digitalized archive of the Leidsch Dagblad has recently been blocked. At the moment, each heritage institution has to conclude a contract with collective management organisations. This could cost a lot. It might be better to conclude a nationwide covering contract for heritage institutions. During the examination of the amendment of the Copyright Act, the Minister of Security and Justice indicated that the Ministry of Education, Culture and Science is currently investigating the possibilities of unlocking copyrighted works based on collective solutions. What is the status of this investigation, and when can the Court expect its results? I come to my final point. The law states that the Minister accepts cultural goods or collections which meet the criteria for becoming a protected heritage if they are donated. This seems to the CDA Group to be rather unbiased. Actually, this comes down to the following. If anyone has special heritage and if they want to get rid of it because it is too expensive or whatever, they call the Ministry and say: please; we have no conditions, but now it is yours. I can imagine this being too spacious. Perhaps the Minister also thinks in the second instance: yes, it would be a good idea to consider whether to include some of the grounds for refusal in the law. After all, there is always a price tag. We know with each other that we live in a very special country, with terribly beautiful cultural goods, and we also know that we would actually want much more. Unfortunately, the financial resources are not always available for this. So I think you should be careful what you're being donated, no matter how much you might want it. I would also like to hear a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u21	I would suggest to the spokesmen that we try to complete the first term of the Chamber as a whole, so that we can combine our dinner break with the preparation time required by the Minister for replying.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u22	Mr. Chairman. We are talking about the Heritage Act, which contains a number of good measures. Different laws come together in this Heritage Act. Enforcement and monitoring are becoming clearer. There may be less bureaucracy. That's good. At the same time, the Minister also builds on the somewhat outdated belief in the retiring government, the neoliberal ideology of deregulation, decentralisation and privatisation. This is also dangerous in the case of cultural heritage. We must be careful of our cultural heritage. You can't look away as a minister. I would like to mention a few points where things are going wrong. Firstly, sales, also referred to as "alienation" or "disposal" of heritage. This means that art, collections or historical objects are disposed of and are therefore no longer accessible to the public. Of course, you have to be extremely cautious about that. Next thing you know, you're gonna lose an important piece of art. Currently that is regulated on the basis of self-regulation, but due to incidents with museums in Gouda and Rotterdam they have already passed by the consciousness that this can be very undesirable. The New York Times referred to the Netherlands as one of the countries in which public art ownership is threatened by cuts and market thinking on the one hand and weak legal protection on the other. The Minister is now coming up with an opinion from experts on alienation. In the extreme case, it can also intervene itself. The question is whether these are sufficient safeguards. The sale of heritage can still take place. There is no possibility of appeal, not even to the donors of a heritage document. The arguments against this are rather formal legal, as I noticed. The proposed sale must be reported to the Minister, but it will only intervene in extreme cases. Does the Minister see this danger? It is a matter of national heritage, of importance to all of us. Surely this minister doesn't want to go down in history as the ruler who made the sale of a famous painting possible? Trust is good, security is better. For this reason, a professional possibility is an important addition to this chapter. I'll take a look at Mrs. Keijzer. Perhaps she can nod when I have already been added to her amendment that realizes this. I see a hesitation, but I also see a nod. I think it's being taken care of now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u23	For the people who want to follow it at home, Mrs. Keijzer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u24	This is very clever of Mr Van Dijk. What do you have to do at a time like this? Say no? The answer is yes, but there are other names under the amendment. I'm hoping for a majority. Everyone is invited to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u25	My day can't be broken now. The Minister shields the opinion of experts in the event of rejection, but the request for expert advice in the case of proposed sales does not yet apply to all public authorities. Water boards and universities are excluded. Here too, the same arguments about autonomy are leading. Is there not a lot of wishful thinking here, especially now that many institutions are threatened by financial problems? I'd like a response. Then I come to the proceeds from the sale of heritage. We must prevent museums or municipalities from selling art because of financial problems. It would be devastating for our heritage. Churchill made a fine statement on that. According to the LAMO Directive, the Museums Directive, proceeds should be devoted to the preservation and development of the collection. That's a good starting point. Hence my amendment to always spend proceeds from sales on the management and preservation of the collection. This will prevent financially motivated disposal. The Culture Council says the same thing. In fact, the Culture Council is asking whether it is a good idea to extend this to the whole cultural domain. I'd like a response from the Minister. Then there's a comment about archaeology. The Minister offers sympathetic proposals on certification and quality assurance. In reality, the government is being put at a distance again. During the ripening of land for agriculture or living, valuable finds can be lost. The Association of Volunteers in Archaeology writes that knowledge in some municipalities is insufficient and that there is insufficient supervision. Does the Minister recognize that? What is she going to do about it? If there's any damage to archaeological objects, it's final. Archaeological monument care is governed by the Environment Act. He'll be taken care of next week. The municipalities can hire regional archaeologists, but do not always do so because of the costs. The SP is considering an amendment to the Environment Act, which establishes the guarantee that archaeological expertise is always present. Municipalities are then obliged to hire a scientifically trained archaeologist when drawing up planning plans and issuing environmental permits. Does the Minister agree with the SP that a large find such as recently in Dalfsen around the dolmens and the farm needs rural direction? After all, the interests are greater than those of that particular municipality. Earlier, I suggested setting up a national fund to finance large finds, such as those in Dalfsen, management and further research. I'd like a response. Then I'll get to the mobile heritage. The Dutch Mobile Collection Foundation shows that there are many problems. Many legislation, such as environmental requirements, labour laws and safety regulations, are intended for modern means of transport. The application of the same rules to historical means of transport is impossible or hardly possible. This requires huge investments for private owners or museums. Historical ships, for example, need to install new engines to meet the requirements of the Inland Navigation Act. Does the Minister recognise this problem and is she prepared to consider a solution, for example by making an exception for sailing heritage? The number of historic ships going abroad is increasing. How's the Minister going to turn that tide? Is the Minister prepared to take a coordinating role in the cabinet to proactively defend the mobile heritage with its fellow ministers and if a law is really unreasonable to ask for an exception? A mindset can be to promote the ensemble value of mobile heritage. You can keep a steam train and make it accessible to the public, but it gives extra value if the station, rail tracks and workshop are preserved as well. I'd like to get a commitment. Is the Minister prepared to designate the top of the mobile heritage as a protected monument? In response to questions, the Minister says she will discuss the problems with other departments, where solutions can be found in the context of exemptions. Is the Minister prepared to make these consultations structural? Does it want to play a coordinating and mediation role when decisions are taken by other ministries on mobile heritage? I'm considering a motion on this point. I come to young heritage. In recent years, the government has pursued a very cautious policy of protecting post-war buildings, the period of reconstruction, 1945 to 1965. The Empire only wants to protect a selection of the absolute top as a national monument and have the rest of the protection regulated by provinces and municipalities. Most municipalities and provinces still do little or nothing. Many important post-war buildings do not yet have any form of protection under this policy. Can the Minister, within the framework of the new Heritage Act, come up with a comprehensive vision on the conservation and protection of the post-war heritage? How does the bill protect library collections? I am particularly asking about unique documents and collections such as the collection of the Tropenmuseum, which has unfortunately been sold to Egypt. Is the government prepared to draw up a protocol for the dismantling of rare and unique library collections in order to prevent the loss of a collection such as that of the Tropenmuseum in the future? I'd like to get a response. I have two more questions before I get to my lock. What is the status of the ratification of the UNESCO Convention for the Protection of Cultural Heritage underwater? I'd like to get a response. The Museum association rightly notes that the loan part does not include the indemnity scheme, the guarantee scheme for art objects borrowed by Dutch museums from foreign museums and private individuals. Indemnity regulation should be enshrined in the Heritage Act. Does the Minister share that opinion? Does it also share the view that the state guarantee, currently EUR 300 million, should be extended to meet the demand of many museums? I'd like to get a response. Finally. The Culture Council says it sharply. The law aims to prevent material value from taking precedence over thinking and dealing with heritage and to set up a dam against initiatives in which the money-making of heritage is paramount. At the same time, the law does not rule this out entirely, according to the Culture Council. That sums up this law well. There remains unnecessary confidence in market forces and deregulation, while this outdated idea has caused so much damage. We call for a minister who stands for our cultural heritage. So let's get this over with. No more concessions to the VVD. For a change, let's see your social democratic teeth before we can only admire them in a museum.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u26	Mr. Chairman. In April I visited the Restoration Fair in the Brabanthallen in Den Bosch. I understand that the Minister himself was there two years ago. On the exhibition floor of 8,000 m 500 companies and organisations presented themselves to people from the restoration world, owners of monuments and many others interested in cultural heritage. Visitors received advice on restoration of their old books, watches, jewelry, textiles or other possessions. In addition, dozens of old objects and paintings were auctioned. The objects of Stichting Uninherited Good come from depots or collections that are no longer shown, but these pieces do deserve a nice spot on the wall of a private individual. At the Restoration Fair I felt that the Dutch cultural heritage lives, both among young people and among older people. That image also emerges from the SCP report Yesterday today, which came out this spring. 80% of our population is interested in heritage and history and a quarter of our population is a so-called heritageist. The Open Monument Day attracts one million visitors each year and the number of Museum Card holders rose by 10% last year to 1.1 million members, while a card costs €55. The Netherlands has hundreds of historical associations. Last week I read in the newspaper that municipalities with a historic city centre are unbelievably popular. People like to live there, house prices are rising and there is more economic growth. Cities therefore do well to cherish their heritage. We also see this in the increasing tourist flows and visitor records at the Rijksmuseum. The strict separation of money flows between the management and exhibition of museums, which the Minister has now proposed, can therefore count on the support of the VVD, as this stimulates the entrepreneurship we have already mentioned more often and encourages and helps museums to think about what we do and do not want to collect. Art doesn't really have value until it leaves a depot. In practice, private museums appear to be asking this question much more often, but especially much better. Although regulations on the protection of our cultural heritage have sometimes been badly needed in the past, I see Heritage Law, which we are now discussing, as a kind of closure of what lives in society.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u27	I agree with the VVD that as much as possible should be continuously visible. Let me put that in front of you. Nowadays, museums also have the possibility of doing so.I see that many museums already use this to show their collection on the internet. Not everything has to be in the room all day. Does the VVD actually say that things that are in the depot are of lesser value? There are also objects that may be brought forward once every twenty years if that is the case, but which are now part of the heritage, should be studied and should not be disposed of.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u28	That is what Mr Pechtold and I fully agree with each other. I'm just saying that the real value of art arises when it comes out of the depot, because then people can enjoy it, look at it and then tell about it. In this way we can try to make more and more art available to people who are interested in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u29	I fully agree with Mr Van Veen, but I am a little suspicious. The VVD is about the only party I've noticed that the PVV has dropped out, which is no longer there in the case of the PVV which, in its input and its amendments, puts emphasis on entrepreneurship, market value and house prices rising in the city centre. You should talk about that in Amsterdam; a normal Amsterdammer can no longer live there, or he must rent a hotel room. That's why I'm asking the VVD a little more sharply: if something is in the depot, doesn't that mean it's indispensable? If we agree on this, I shall once again be more relieved to listen to Mr Van Veen, but if there is some sort of separation by Mr Van Veen, where things that are not on the Chamber are perhaps of lesser value, perhaps I shall go ahead in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u30	I can reassure Mr Pechtold. I'm just gonna give it to.I've already said that art has the most value when it comes out of the depots and can be seen for everyone. I think that museum directors should always ask themselves the same question. We must ask ourselves why we have things in a depot, why we collect things and why we should continue to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u31	For the minutes, I note that Mr Bosma is still registered as a speaker. It is still unclear whether he will eventually be able to take part in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u32	This law is not the beginning of taking responsibility for our cultural heritage. However, this law should also be the start for my party of securing our heritage across the border. As far as we are concerned, particular attention should be paid to the moving heritage in Southeast Asia. In 2003, for example, the VOC archives were included in the Unesco Memory of the World Register, a nice status, but not a status that automatically leads to careful management. Local circumstances, urgency, lack of knowledge, but above all the illegibility of archive documents are barriers that sometimes have to be overcome in order to preserve the Dutch documents present abroad, often hundreds of years old, in a good way also for the next hundreds of years. These VOC and colonial archives are located in several places in Asia. Recently, in 2010 and 2011, new parts of the VOC archive have emerged in India. The records were in very bad condition. With a lot of sticking and flying work this heritage is and is sought to preserve and in some cases even digitize. The Netherlands, Dutch embassies often support conservation occasionally, after which there is a good chance that attention will slacken again, with all the consequences. Fortunately, there are private foundations, such as the Corts Foundation, which maintain good links with the Indonesian archive agency ANRI (Arsip Nasional Republik Indonesia). These foundations have set themselves the goal of taking care of the no less than 15 kilometers of VOC archives in Indonesia. With modest resources, local people are trained to carry out management properly. This private initiative, which with the legacy of Kees Corts tries to map the colonial history of the VOC, now also manages and digitizes the Dutch archives. These are archives of great cultural historical value, such as correspondence with local monarchs from all over Asia, the first trade routes and Dutch diplomacy. That is what many Dutch people, including myself, care about. The present Heritage Act deals with the cultural heritage in the Netherlands, but not with the unique Dutch heritage abroad. That is why I am asking the Minister in Amendment No. 12 demand that also present abroad take up moving cultural heritage when that is offered to us. Things are going fairly well in Indonesia, for example, but how will they be in the coming years? I would like to receive a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u33	I like this way of thinking. I only notice that the VVD doesn't give very much at home and wants to be in the first place for a dime when it comes to what goes on in the Netherlands. But of Dutch heritage abroad, of which I wonder whether that is Dutch or a kind of fusion of heritage of two cultures, the VVD says: otherwise let it come here. Isn't the fact that things of our heritage are scattered around the world the reason people are interested in coming here now? If Rembrandt hadn't crossed the border, however much we may regret it sometimes, the fame would never have been this great and people wouldn't be interested to see another 4,500 Chinese this week. Is the goal just to get stuff here because others can't manage it properly? Or should we work together to ensure that it is well received? For example, I saw the archive in Paramaribo once. I think that's better air-conditioned than the local hospital.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u34	On the contrary, I always get a little nervous with words like "sympathetic," because do we say that something is a good or a bad proposal? We are not adopting this law for a week or two months, but for a large number of years. Where the heritage is well maintained at the moment, we simply need to look regularly at the situation. But in the cases where I have specifically mentioned India where there is no interest of both the local government and the people who manage it, I want the Minister to have the opportunity to retrieve that stuff back to the Netherlands at the time they are offered. Let us hope that this is not necessary, but as I said, this law is not for a while but for a very long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u35	I think the VVD is shopping a little selectively in our heritage. If a piece of VOC mentality is threatened, we are going to worry about it. I've never heard the VVD about Paramaribo himself, for example. Mr Van Veen is talking about India now, but in many more of our former colonies things are collapsing. Every now and then I hear the VVD position on the former Antilles. Well, there's a lot of shit in there, too. If we want to spend a penny on this, I always hear Mr Van Veen's colleague screaming murder and fire. So where does the interest in this moving archive suddenly come from? In fact, I could show Mr Van Veen many more dramas from the world of archives, even from Dutch soil, where the situation is getting worse and we have enormous delays.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u36	I note that Mr Pechtold is not only suspicious of local directors, but also of the VVD's speech. I am not suggesting that the Minister be sent to Indonesia, that every building there be demolished and brought to the Open Air Museum in Arnhem. I ask the Minister to take care of the archives of the VOC, which are known to be spread around the world, that they are written in Dutch and that people in India are not interested in them. I just want the law to provide for the Minister to have the opportunity to have the archives back when it is necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u37	Those were nice words. I also read in the newspaper this morning that the spokesperson of the VVD thinks that there is too little eye for it in the Netherlands because of the way in which "a certain flow" now looks at colonial times. Those "certain currents," are those the VVDs in the Rutte I cabinet who wanted to cut the Tropenmuseum down?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u38	No, they're not VVDs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u39	Explain: these were fine words about heritage that would be lost abroad, but the Tropenmuseum was cut down by Rutte I's cabinet under Rutte's leadership. Do I understand that the VVD is now concerned about this kind of colonial heritage and is also going to make an effort to preserve the Tropenmuseum, as the funding for it is likely to be lost? That would make Mr Van Veen's speech consistent. Is he going to commit to the Tropenmuseum, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u40	Today we're dealing with the Heritage Act. I did not say in any way that the Minister should draw her wallet to protect all the heritage that is in the world. On the contrary, I would just ask the Minister to keep an eye on the loss of heritage there, and would like her to feel supported by the law to bring those goods back to the Netherlands. I am sure that at a later stage we will discuss with Mr Van Dijk how we deal with the BIS, and thus with the Tropenmuseum. But that is not decided today; that is something we will discuss with each other in the coming period.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u41	We do the interruptions in two, but the first question was very short. So you may ask a brief follow-up question, Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u42	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Veen is making it a financial point now, but I am simply trying to discover the consistency in his speech. Today he makes a fine plea for colonial heritage; absolutely beautiful. But at the same time the VVD lets the Tropenmuseum be lost, par excellence a museum about colonial heritage. So what about the consistency in his speech? And wouldn't it be nice if he said: we should be careful at that museum and that's what the VVD stands for?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u43	I can give the same answer as just: I think we should separate those two things. This is about the multi-annual management of what is abroad. I think this legal process is a good opportunity to ask the Minister to commit himself to this. That is why I tabled that amendment. I told you before: monuments have a special appeal at the moment. It is in and hip to enjoy cultural heritage. Especially cities and villages with a historical heart attract many interested people or people who want to live in a monumental home. So we run the risk that more and more people want to interfere with private cultural property. The involvement in our heritage is very positive but also has perverse effects, such as meddling and regulating. How do we ensure that the designation as a protected cultural asset, resulting in the necessary regulation for the owner, is in balance with the importance of cultural goods for the whole of society? Article 3.9 of the Erfgoedwet discusses the procedural steps to identify a protected cultural property. For the VVD it is important that the owner of a cultural property always has the last word when the minister designates a national monument or national heritage. His importance and right are paramount in terms of the VVD. In this way, we will ensure that there is mutual support for our cultural heritage. The question to the Minister is: when is enough? That is why I propose that the law should be greatly simplified by means of the amendment to item No. 17. In doing so, we note that designation as a protected cultural property always requires the consent of the owner.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u44	I really wonder whether Mr Van Veen has considered the portee of this proposal well, because it means that we, as a government, with Mr Van Veen's cabinet minister, put ourselves in check. We can advise, threaten, try, seduce, but if the owner doesn't want to, it won't happen. If he wants to tear it down, he'll tear it down. If he wants to sell it, he'll sell it. That is exactly what Mr Van Veen says: the owner has the last word. Right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u45	That's right. It's not from D66, it's not from the minister, it's from a private person. I indicated in my interruption to Mr Pechtold's speech that the Minister also indicated that the list we now have is very complete. If we're going to add things, we need to make the importance of private owners heavy. I'll make that call to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u46	How far does that call go? Is it just about the list? Is it about all the national monuments? I may need three interruptions in order to do so, because it is quite unclear to me what we are about to experience. What does Mr Van Veen want to give the owner the last word? Someone thinks he wants to be cremated with his work of art. That's not a joke; there've been some who came up with that. Well, he's got the last word, so burn it! Someone thinks he wants to tear it all down. We can advise, subsidise, threaten, but eventually the VVD says, "Go ahead." Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u47	I am shocked by Mr Pechtold's reaction. He almost makes a caricature of the property that people can have of a painting or cultural goods in the broad sense of the word. It is about the fact that the Minister and Dutch society have already had a great deal of time to map out the cultural heritage that we want to label as national heritage. I'm not saying that anyone can put a wealthy piece in their pocket and get cremated according to it. I'm saying if the minister didn't map it, it's private property. I'll put it another way. Imagine someone in the Netherlands wanting to buy a Van Gogh with their own money. If he knows that Mr. Pechtold is in favour of a law that will charge that painting, as soon as it arrives in the Netherlands, with a lot of rules because Van Gogh might be so unique that he is of greater value to the entire Dutch society, he would be very stupid to ever buy such a painting and introduce it in the Netherlands. I want us, when we add things, to weigh the owner's voice very heavily.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u48	I know that I have already asked two questions, but the first part was not clear to me at all, and I think that is also true for my fellow Members. What are we talking about now? Are we just talking about that special list that has a number of things on it? Are we talking about all the national monuments? Are we talking about everything that's public art property and is registered? What are we talking about? Just a Van Gogh was in the possession of a Japanese man who wanted to be cremated with it. Now we have 50 with me on the Veluwe and some in the Van Gogh Museum, but it would be quite a shame.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u49	We are going to listen to what Mr Van Veen has to say. Then we go to Mr Monasch and Mrs Keijzer. If Mr Pechtold still has additional questions, he can ask them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u50	The amendment is so clear. The amendment is about wealth. That means it's already got a status. I am now talking about a future status, if the Minister decides to add something to the list of national monuments and works of art.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u51	I am now also somewhat surprised by this explanation. I remember Mr Pechtold standing here with a stack of notes. Everyone has their hobby; I have stacks of auction catalogues at home. In that I can show Mr Van Veen the Picassos and Rembrandts who are being auctioned. It would be a bit strange if the new owner could decide for himself what will happen to that painting. He can buy it, but at that point, his ownership is limited to some extent, right? Or does the VVD think that, at the time you own a Rembrandt or a Van Gogh, you can set fire to it or kite-surf it? Does the VVD say "you look at it, it's your property," or is there still a limitation of that property right possible, even for the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u52	Mr Monasch also makes a caricature of people who buy art. I find that shocking. Someone doesn't spend millions on a painting and then go kitesurfing with it, apart from that individual lunatic maybe. I am concerned that, as a government, we should be reluctant to designate new national cultural heritage. That means that we need to know our place and that we need to include in the law that you are trying to convince the owner that it makes sense for him that his property should be admitted to that state heritage.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u53	In my opinion, many people have already said that it is very much a matter of how the spirit of time determines cultural heritage. It may be that something will be among the top of our cultural heritage in a year or five years' time, but we do not know it yet. If the spirit of the time develops that way, does the VVD say to the owner: You are lucky, we do nothing with that? Or does the VVD at the time say to that owner: This is so important to our cultural heritage that we impose a certain limitation on your property right, because the piece has become part of our cultural heritage?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u54	The procedure laid down in the law to achieve that rich cultural heritage goes by those roadmaps. This means that there must be a win-win situation for both the owner and society if we want to name something as a rich cultural heritage. If an owner, after a consideration of all interests, also in view of what the minister has put forward, says that he doesn't want it anyway, the VVD respects that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u55	The example mentioned by Mr Van Veen specifically excludes the law. If you bring the heritage to the Netherlands, permission from the owner is required. With Mr Van Veen thinking that you should be careful about people's property rights, I go a long way. However, I do not understand why Mr Van Veen thinks that it should apply only to new indications. In my opinion, a lot of people feel abandoned by the VVD, because they just have a clue behind which they did not agree, on the same grounds as Mr Van Veen points out. What does Mr Van Veen say on behalf of the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u56	In any case, I note that the CDA supports the VVD's proposal. This law will make it possible, through our amendment, for people to object to it. In fact, they don't have to object, because when it doesn't agree, it doesn't become a national cultural heritage. That is precisely why I am so pleased that I now have a reason to amend the law in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u57	This is a very special conclusion, but Mr Van Veen is going past my point because I asked a question. What does he say to the people who brought proceedings last month, six months or a year ago, because they did not agree with the indication of national cultural heritage, as Mr Van Veen calls it? This leads to a complete inequality in the treatment of people's property rights, doesn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u58	In this case, too, I try to understand the essence of the question. What we are trying to regulate in the law is that the interests of those people will be better protected in the future. Mrs Keijzer can express her support for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u59	I think that applies here is generally stated that everyone is talking about their own answers but I had a very simple question. Mr Van Veen wants to settle this for the future. What does he say to the people who have gone on trial in recent years against a clue to national cultural heritage? Does he leave those people in the cold, is he in principle, is the protection of property rights really at stake, or is this a liberal thing today?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u60	It's definitely not a liberal thing. I just don't argue for it where people weren't happy with an allocation, to reverse everything with retroactive effect. I call for the conditions to be so good that the Minister, together with a future owner of a rich cultural heritage, will emerge. Article 2.6 of the bill states that the Minister must adopt cultural goods if they are not offered without conditions. It is not entirely clear what the scope of this point is. Does it only concern movable property, such as art collections? Or could it also be real estate? I would like clarity on that point, because it could lead to major financial consequences if it were also for real estate. Can the Minister confirm that real estate is excluded from Article 2.6? Municipal councils also like to interfere with heritage. In addition to the Monuments Act of the Empire, numerous municipalities have specific municipal policies and establish local monument policies in all their freedom. I even know municipalities that have a list of monumental trees. Beautiful is that, but when a tree is in someone's garden, it doesn't belong to everyone and you will have to talk to an owner to put a tree on such a list. I believe that we should make a clear reservation when dealing with this bill and allow the law to apply only to national monuments and heritage of national interest. Municipalities and provinces have enough room to submit their own local political choices in regulations to municipalities and municipalities, thus ensuring the local importance of heritage. This is in the interest of the owners of cultural goods that is not unique enough for the award of the predicate "rich" and lays down the responsibility to the inhabitants of a municipality for the choices made by local politicians.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u61	However, I would like to say to Mr Van Veen that I have to say an interesting opponent in this debate, from his point of view, whether this is going to help for what he is trying to do. Suppose such a municipality comes up with the idea that in the context of austerity it might be useful to reject something. It's talked about, and the city council decides, we're gonna do it. Then the Empire will be the last to intervene. In Mr Van Veen's view, such a municipality then says: Well, Rich, you can buy it too. If we consider it to be of national, supra-regional or even local importance, then every time the Empire comes to terms with something that the municipality, the water authority or whatever the political colour is not in favour of at that time. Then we are actually the last guardian of the heritage. If you go along with what I feel a majority of the Chamber wants, turn it around. Then you say, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. We're not gonna take that responsibility for them. Isn't that exactly what the VVD is about and isn't that why the VVD isn't getting to come with us? I won't give too much "rotation" to that twist; I'll let you take it easy on the break.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u62	It should be a national monument by now. That is the essence of my speech. We have a very complete rich goose list, with many pieces and buildings on it. It shows opportunism that we are only concerned about whether something should be wealthy when someone wants to sell it. I am concerned that a waterboard or a municipality has mapped it well. I'm concerned that the people in the city council have thought about whether something like this shouldn't be a state heritage. At the moment when it is not a national heritage, we as Parliamentary Groups will have to accept that a city council is about its own agenda and its own policy. That's what municipalities do with a municipal heritage policy. Any municipality can determine that freely.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u63	I call a case. The municipality of Ede, with about 130,000 inhabitants, and the municipality of Wageningen, with 35,000 inhabitants, will merge. That's what we want, and so does the VVD. The new city council, which I estimate is about 80% Ede and 20% Wageningen, is going to consider that General Foulkes' pen with which the capitulation was signed can best be disposed of. It's in that beautiful Hotel De Wereld pretty much in the way. Maybe there'd be a lot of money to be paid for it. Then we all say: what kind of weird balance is that? Now you might think: that's crazy! Indeed, the example is idiotic. But there are aggregations. There are charges. There's been all kinds of cases in history where it seemed crazy, but it happened. I have just mentioned many of them in my contribution. Is it not of great importance to national heritage, and we are talking here about a small frog country, which we do not just say to any body, whether it is a municipality or a water authority or whatever: arrange it all yourself, and whether you draw up your own code does not matter to us? Shouldn't we standardize that? Don't we have to make sure that we all radiate the same feeling? That's not because we want to patronize, but because we want to protect them from ignorance, ignorance, or whatever.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u64	It is that Mr Pechtold himself uses the word 'betuttering', but it seems that in this house we do not express sufficient confidence in our local leaders and politicians. In the case of a merger of two municipalities, you can only advise them to map out very well what art one owns, and to see what is labeled as national art and what is not. When one considers that something should be a rich cultural heritage, we have a law. It prescribes a procedure on how that piece can eventually become a national cultural heritage. I would really like to make that distinction very clear. Otherwise we open the locks to label all the paintings and all the pieces that are in the Netherlands in town halls as very important to society.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u65	I would almost say that I have little to add to Mr Pechtold's speech. I'm zooming in on another part, but that concerns municipal and local policy. In my own hometown in recent decades there has been an incredible amount of demolition, such as textile factories, and one of the few theatres in factories rich in the Netherlands. Until recently, my hometown had a somewhat problematic relationship with theater. Luckily, it's going well these days. However, valuable objects have been lost, from small objects to monumental buildings. Isn't it incredibly wise to include a provision in the law somewhere that doesn't so much prescribe, but that makes municipalities policy on cultural heritage? This would prevent everything that makes it worthwhile for people to live in a particular place of residence, the identity of a place of residence, from being lost.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u66	I myself come from a municipality where unfortunately a fantastic old town hall has been demolished. Only on the basis of the photos can I say: who has ever been able to decide that? The fact is that it would also have been demolished if this law had been applied, because it was not a national monument. However, it means that a municipality must apply for a scrapping permit to which everyone can simply appeal and object. In my view, these are the procedures that mobilise a community to persuade local politics to refrain from demolition that will be perpetual. This applies at local and provincial level. It seems to me to be an illusion to impose on all these municipalities in the Netherlands from The Hague how things should be arranged if the Minister does not think that something should already be a national monument or national heritage.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u67	Not how it is arranged, but that it is arranged; that is the implication of what I propose. This is precisely what I want to prevent all these beautiful objects, from small to large, from disappearing. We live in a globalising society. India and China are around the corner. We only have to turn on the TV and we see that the local community and the region are becoming increasingly important to people. Is it not incredibly important to record with each other not how, but that the municipalities and the province have heritage policy and also protect heritage? That just ensures that the municipality and the county think about it and that an explicit consideration takes place. So that often doesn't happen now. If the VVD says this is happening, it's really wishful thinking.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u68	I do not dispute what Mrs Dik says, but I call on every municipality and province to draw up local heritage policies and to think carefully with the inhabitants and the city council about the way in which they want to protect the local, very important heritage. All I'm saying is this shouldn't be regulated by this law. I give confidence to local leaders and politicians, and even to local communities, to make the right decisions. I will come back to that briefly in the course of my speech. That process has long been under way. I don't even have to turn that on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u69	Mr Van Veen said just now that he does not like patronizing and that he therefore does not want all the protection measures. Now there is an amendment from my group to allow interested citizens to object or appeal if a government wants to sell a cultural property. Does he support this or does he find those concerned citizens interfering or patronizing?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u70	I am not going to say that I find people who are involved in cultural heritage interfering and that they should not interfere. I'm gonna tell the CDA, just get it done locally. Just settle that appeal and objection procedure in a regulation in a municipality. Make sure people can mobilize themselves. It happens locally very often that people oppose that some city councils or lectures of B and W decide.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u71	That is not possible, because objection and appeal must be settled in the General Administrative Law Act. Once again, does Mr Van Veen wish to support the CDA in putting involved citizens in a position or does he think that is a form of patronization? I really hope for the first, because there is a wonderful amendment from the CDA Group to settle this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u72	The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats could consider supporting that amendment, if it did not include that it also applies to municipalities and provinces. We believe that this participation should be possible at the time when the Minister decides to sell wealth, but not at the time when it is a painting located in a town hall. Very recently, the town of Sluis' heritage regulation has been amended after discussion in the city council in the sense that it has been included that owners have to agree to be placed on that municipal heritage list. It's not for nothing that a community like that does. The college of Sluis had another wish. This wanted an important tool to be able to pursue its own policy and to regulate the conservation of special buildings. I welcome the fact that this debate is being held in the local community. That is why we have tabled an amendment to item No. 13 propose a simplification of the law. It is up to local authorities themselves to decide how they want to deal with local heritage in local regulations. That is why point 4.2, which deals with provinces and municipalities, could be deleted as far as the VVD is concerned. The Minister has indicated that with 140,000 objects and 63 000 national monuments our national heritage is very complete and that it has been well mapped out which unique elements are included in the collections. In order to re-establish in the law that municipalities and provinces are under the authority of the state and to have a committee of experts make a judgment when one intends to trade or relocate a piece, not only goes far, but also does not rhyme with the political and administrative freedom that we grant regional authorities. The VVD considers that sections 4.1 and 3.2 contain sufficient safeguards to preserve and protect important cultural heritage.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u73	So the Mondrian should have been sold and no one should have interfered. There are also other examples in very recent history. As far as the VVD is concerned, this could have happened without any further interference, protection, careful step or transparency.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u74	Mr Pechtold's question is a question of governance. There's a board of directors, there's a board of directors, there's a board of directors. There are all kinds of gremia and there is participation. At the moment when something isn't real estate, there is governance. I trust that this governance will do its job at that time. Mr Pechtold is right that this has not happened in the past, but I also note that it was not national monuments at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u75	I don't understand why the VVD says that such a Mondrian can be sold, while Gerrit Zalm bought the Victory Boogie Woogie not so long after. It's both Mondriaan to help Mr. Van Veen on the road. There's no consistent thought about that, is there? Mr Van Veen talks about governance, but then I start to react almost a bit SP-like. Why does it always have to do with those difficult business terms? I want to hear a little more of the feeling: this is from all of us, this is what we want to manage. Suppose a city council gets mad somewhere because their municipality has become an article 12 municipality, and they say, "You know what? The silver price has gone up a bit. We have 300-year-old guild silver in our house. Let's fuck up!" Surely it is a national problem when suddenly the entire history of such a city gets beat out, because at that time there is a majority of VVDs on the council?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u76	Now I feel that Mr Pechtold is making me a caricature. I regret that, even in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u77	I don't have to contribute to that!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u78	I do not believe that this remark will improve. In my view, I repeat again and again that this responsibility cannot be taken by the government. We already have a lot of goods under our supervision and under our care. The numbers, 63 000 and 140,000, I've already mentioned. I challenge Mr Pechtold to think about the following. What would happen if a community that can't afford it anymore knocked on D66's door? Would D66 then like to arrange the financing of the conservation of a monument? I just don't think it's feasible and I think that responsibility should be taken locally. I shall now move on to my speech, because I have already said a great deal on this subject. Interesting cultural heritage cannot be protected from anything with heritage status. Other parties have already said that. Due to the earthquakes in Groningen, we have seen how vulnerable our monumental heritage is to external influences. In the earthquake area there are a large number of national monuments from both individuals and governments. The owners of these monuments are under great pressure. On 27 April last, the Permanent Committee on Economic Affairs received a letter from a family who painfully explained the extent of the procedures for living in a monument. In addition to the regular damage recovery process, the national monuments also have to meet specific requirements, which are reviewed by the Cultural Heritage Agency and for which specific permission must be requested. Now I do not want to talk about the settlement of damages here, but there is enough talk in the Chamber about the possibilities that this minister has to deal generously with the enjoyment of living, and, above all, the safety of the owners of monumental buildings in the earthquake area. Can the Minister indicate whether she is familiar with cases where disputes arise between owners of monumental buildings and the government through the rigid rules on the management and maintenance of national monuments in that area? Is the Minister prepared to lift these barriers in order to ensure the safety and living enjoyment of national monuments? As I said earlier, we are not setting the Heritage Act for a week, but for a longer period, which will include innovation. The speed of innovation is demonstrated by the enormous digitisation of almost everything. I mentioned the digital archives earlier, but this can also include the advent of the Internet, Internet TV, YouTube channels and, fortunately, more and more commercial cultural expressions. It is difficult to estimate in 2015 what will be important cultural heritage for the Netherlands in the future. The fact that wifi and bluetooth are Dutch inventions is not known to many people. However, it is clear that they are important inventions, and that this history must be recorded is a fact for everyone. But maybe that's true for so much more. I would therefore like to ask the Minister a few questions. What is the Minister's view of the importance of television programmes by commercial broadcasters? What is kept and what is not kept and how does this relate to the public service broadcasters? Does the Minister consider that measures should be taken to ensure that the commercial heritage is also digitally preserved for future generations? I would also like to know how the Minister intends to deal with the digital internet and website archive that has been created. Is the Minister prepared to report to the Chamber what possibilities there are or should be?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u79	The amazement is still increasing. Mr Van Veen is now saying that we may not know what is important at the moment, because you can think differently about it in different periods. I agree with him; even more so, of that thought my own contribution was permeated. But that is contrary to his earlier position that we should protect as little as possible and the owner should decide as much as possible what to do with it. That's a consideration I'd like to give him. Now, however, I see two things coming to the end of the VVD contribution: will our archive of the VOC in India and the programs of SBS6 and RTL4 be in the digital sky soon? I still don't get the line in between. Is it two people who have given Mr Van Veen a bright idea? 'Cause then I'll send a few more by. But why now, suddenly, commercial programs of RTL4 and beyond on the transmitter? I mean, very important, but in all the considerations that Mr Van Veen can make right now, I am amazed at the VOC archive and the commercial programmes, the fact that they are now suddenly being called up by the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u80	I note that I do not yet have the right tone at all levels in society. I think I am talking here about what is missing in the Netherlands. I have indicated in my speech that Mr Pechtold must recognize that we already have a great deal of national cultural heritage and that the Minister said that this is very complete. What I see is that we have some blind spots. This begins in antiquity at the VOC and ends in the future with digital cultural heritage. I ask the Minister if she will give me a map of how she looks at this. I do not immediately ask the Minister to include this in the law, but I do ask whether the law provides the tools to incorporate this digital heritage into our cultural heritage. I'm rounding up. I look in the law for the balance between on the one hand the enormous amount of cultural goods, the beautiful, the unique, and on the other hand the importance of the individual possessor. As far as I am concerned, wealth must be so special that an owner of such a cultural property, Mr Pechtold, would like to add the status of "rich" to it. Often that process goes well and you actually only need mutual conditions instead of a law. In exceptional cases, you actually need a law that protects private property from others' rule drive and quit. That is why I believe that the amendments tabled by the VVD protect that property. So people with pride want to add their good, their property, to the wealth of all of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u81	Finally, we are going to listen to the last speaker from the Chamber, Mr Monasch, because Mr Bosma has already signed off on the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u82	Mr. Chairman. Thank you for letting me act as the last act for dinner break. That's still better than after dinner break. I hope that I will not make those present too hungry. We are talking about protecting the cultural heritage. During this debate, perhaps today's most important news about the protection of cultural heritage has come out, because ultimately, of course, the most important cultural asset in this society is football. With regard to the protection of football, the news has now come to us that Mr Blatter has said goodbye. That seems to me to be an asset for culture and its protection. The Labour Party is positive about the bundling of legislation into the current Heritage Act. Our cultural heritage deserves to be highlighted, it deserves to be cherished and it deserves to be protected in legislation where necessary. At the same time, the protection of cultural heritage may say a lot more about our society, because it means that we look at our history with respect and that we want to protect cultural goods that were important to different movements as democracy. Let us be clear, bearing in mind what we heard in Mr Pechtold's contribution, how often do you see a foreman of D66 defending the possession of the Roman Catholic Church? But that also says a lot about how we look at cultural heritage. I'm serious about that. We in the Chamber have received answers from the Minister in many areas through the note on the report. Thank you for that. It was a big piece of paper. For the Labour Party, there are a number of things that we want to put at the heart of today's debate and in connection with which we will be tabling amendments or motions. First of all, we are talking about the protection of ensembles and ensembles, ladies and gentlemen, which have already been discussed, or how do we protect the movable items which are part of monuments? Secondly, how do we protect everything that belongs to our cultural heritage that rolls, drives, flies or sails? In short, how do we deal with our mobile heritage? Thirdly, this is the third point that will be at the heart of my contribution if we want to focus on the conservation of monuments by owners, with the possibility of negligent maintenance which could lead to decay. On each of these three issues, the present law is abducting and seeking a balance between protection on the one hand and the prevention of excessive regulation and bureaucracy on the other. The legislator provides for the freedom of property and the limitation from the value that that property has as a cultural heritage. We understand this weighting, we support it on many points, but we are not convinced by the results of that consideration in the three points mentioned above. I would like to go into that in more detail. We would like to hear from the Minister how she feels about our amendment on ensembles. That amendment regulates the possibility of protecting monuments and their interiors in conjunction. For this purpose, the cultural goods that form part of the interior must themselves represent sufficient value for the Dutch cultural heritage and be of protection. In addition, the cultural objects of the ensemble should be an essential and indispensable part of the monument. This intertwinedness may have arisen during the use of the monument or because the building and the interior are designed in conjunction. The designation as an ensemble will be relevant for a limited number of national monuments, because the connection between the monument and the protective interior is strong enough here. I would like to respond to the amendment that we have tabled. What does the Minister think of this vision? In addition to the connection between monuments and interiors, we have long experience in the Netherlands with the intervention in our landscape. This cultural landscape is so characteristic of our country in some places that it deserves protection. Think, for example, of the UNESCO heritage of the Beems Interpol. I would have expected Mrs Keijzer to go into that, but then I would do it on her behalf. What role does this heritage play in the Beemster, for example, in the protection it should deserve, also under this law? I'd like to hear the Minister's views. I agree with an earlier question from the Christian Union as to what the Minister thinks about the protection of, for example, city dunes. We still have doubts about an amendment or motion on mobile heritage. The Netherlands is rich in feed, sailing and airplanes that all tell their own story. This mobile heritage is maintained and used by many volunteers. To preserve this for the future, much knowledge is needed about the collection that the Netherlands has and the best way to maintain it. There's already a private register, but that could use support. We want this register to be used as a basis for drawing up a list that can together be a model of the mobile heritage in the Netherlands. In addition, new regulations sometimes involve requirements and restrictions that are detrimental to mobile heritage. Think of safety requirements for ships and tax regulations. Other colleagues have already mentioned this. We see it as a task of the Ministry of Education and Science to highlight the heritage interests of these schemes. Can the Minister explain how she does that? Only the promise that she will discuss it with colleagues is a little thin. I believe that cultural heritage should be at the heart of the matter and that we should make exceptions to cultural heritage. Cultural heritage should not be the child of the account. In addition, more and more mobile heritage disappears abroad. How do we effectively protect these masterpieces? We discussed the Rosalie case before, on which the PvdA asked detailed questions in the Chamber. The Rosalie, who has been refurbished with Dutch grant money and then sold abroad. We doubt whether the current legislation provides adequate protection for our mobile heritage. I'd like a statement from the Minister. On that basis, we will decide whether we will still support or table an amendment or come forward with a motion. Our second amendment, which has already been tabled, lays down minimum conservation requirements for monuments under the current Monument Law. A conservation obligation should provide for a clearer instrument to oblige owners to maintain at least such a level that, for example, a monumental building remains intact. Over the years, however, case law has emerged on the duty of owners of monuments, but with this amendment we want to make it clear in this law. This amendment is in line with the D66 amendment to the Environment Act due to enter into force in 2018. Until then, this amendment regulates the conservation obligation in that part of the Monument Law which remains in force. There will always be reports of situations where legislation to protect the heritage will be cramped, messages you think of afterwards, especially as co-legislator: isn't that what Kafkaian? That is something we do not want, of course. Did the Minister properly check the law on that? When does it intend to evaluate the law, also in view of any unexpected consequences? The question is also to what extent other legislation of the government itself hinders the purpose of these laws. This morning we read in the Volkskrant that ships with old engines should be able to sail at least 13 km/h on the basis of environmental regulations. This would mean that the old engines of old ships would have to be demolished and replaced by new ones. That wasn't supposed to happen. Is this message correct? Is the Minister prepared to adapt this in consultation with her colleague in the cabinet? Or can the House, through amendments or motions, support the Minister in her discussion/debate/conflict within the cabinet to put that type of regulation aside? Please...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u83	I'll let you finish. Then I will give Mr Van Dijk an opportunity to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u84	Then I'll wait.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u85	Mr. Monasch is moving fast. It is good to hear that the Labour Party also has concerns about the sailing heritage. I have also made proposals on this subject. We will wait for the Minister's answer and then see if action is needed from us. I had two more questions. Does Mr Monasch agree with me that we should prevent museums or municipalities from disposing of heritage because of financial problems and that we should therefore arrange that the proceeds from sales always go to management and conservation?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u86	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u87	That's good. So he supports my amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u88	If that is in your amendment, I will certainly support it. But I would like to read the amendment very carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u89	It's beautiful. My second question concerns the right of appeal in the case of sales. This has been debated before. There is no such possibility at the moment. Doesn't Mr Monasch think it is right that we should have this emergency brake of an appeal if, according to the Minister and experts, sales can be made?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u90	I always like to wait for the Minister's answer; I like that in a debate. At least the thought appeals to me. We've been through it ourselves with the Rosalie. At some point it happens so fast and you are sitting as a Chamber and perhaps as a minister so late in the process that you can sometimes fish behind the net. Let me take a good look at that amendment. The fact is that we have to deal with this extremely carefully. In general, there is also a professional possibility, because gone is gone and then you can't get it back. You'll also have to look at whether you want that to apply to everything or just to a particular category. We must also maintain the balance in this respect. The idea of a professional possibility appeals to me in itself, but I would like to study the text as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u91	I have a question about the protection regime in the law. The Minister opts for a protection regime based on irreplaceability, inevitability and great cultural historical and scientific value. It's an en-determine. Does the Labour Party have any idea in this regard that it could become an or provision? Undoubtedly, the Labour Party has also read the input from the field that the concept of "aesthetics" has been missed. My question is actually twofold. What does the Labour Party think of it if it became an or-determine and should not aesthetics be given a place somewhere?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u92	Can you make it a little more explicit, especially about the concept of aesthetics? In which amendment and which part would you like to add? The same applies to your first question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u93	It has now been defined what is "unmissable." I can imagine that an object or work of art is of great exceptional beauty, which makes it indispensable. However, there is no definition of this at present. Take a Mondrian or another artwork; it doesn't matter which example we use. I just miss the whole element of aesthetics. There is a certain sense of usefulness in which aesthetics has no place. I can imagine that is also an important element for the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u94	The concept of usefulness is not at the top of my list in this discussion. I think that the concept of aesthetics should prevail. Eventually, something becomes part of our cultural heritage, especially because of its aesthetic power. So let that be dominant, especially when an object evolves over time in a direction that everyone says: there is a kind of new beauty in this building or object, a beauty that we didn't see at first. Then such an object, such an object, must be given the space to develop into something we want to protect, including with this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u95	I welcome these words from Mr Monasch and the space that is provided in them. I am considering tabling an amendment on this point. Let us also wait and see the Minister's response. Who knows what's gonna come out of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u96	I always try to answer as clearly as I can. To a question from Mr Van Dijk, I could just answer 'yes'. Then you don't have to spend too much time on it. There is a danger that if 23 amendments are tabled, I and my group will also be able to give an opinion directly on those 23 amendments. Mrs Dik must therefore allow me to study some of the amendments that have just been tabled. I would also like to await the Minister's response and her support for other amendments. Mr. Pechtold has been an auctioneer. I'm glad that possession doesn't come into his hands in his role as auctioneer. I'm glad the property is being defended by the suppoost. I was a gallery owner myself. In that role, I have also brought goods abroad, and brought goods from abroad here. I can only say that a thriving sector of cultural heritage, where things that deserve it, are protected, where things are highlighted and cherished by us, that such a thriving sector of cultural heritage is in the interest of a thriving art sector. As far as we are concerned, this Heritage Act must contribute to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u97	This brings us to the end of the Court's contribution in the first term. No, Mr Pechtold has one more question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u98	No, Mr. Chairman, I don't have a question. I would just like to note in the Acts that the PVV in the Chamber is always talking about nationality, identity, history and so on. The group has 12 seats. However, the members of that group did not manage to speak today, while the group had signed up for this debate for five whole minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u99	It's been noted. The Minister has requested an hour's suspension for preparing the answers. I'd like to combine that suspension with dinner break.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u100	Mr. Chairman. We're discussing the Heritage Act today. Many questions have been asked, flaming speeches have been made and beautiful examples have been mentioned. Maybe that says something about what cultural heritage does to us. We should be pleased with that, because the Netherlands is rich in cultural heritage. It is everywhere: in the museums, in the historical inner cities, in the countryside, in the soil and as an intangible heritage in our traditions, rituals and stories. Mrs Dik-Faber, who spoke first, spoke very nicely about the city gates of the past and how important they are now. I was thinking of an international investigation that I recently read in the paper. That research showed that historic cities have an attraction like never before; all tourists want to go to such cities. That indicates that heritage does something to us. However, heritage is also vulnerable, as Mr Pechtold pointed out.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u101	In view of the involvement of all the spokesmen, I would like to try to structure the debate a little bit. Maybe there are certain cubes that you can recognize in your answer. Perhaps that will help the spokesmen structure their interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u102	Mr President, I had started with a general block. After this block, I would like to talk about the alienation of cultural goods on which most of the amendments have been tabled: interiors, mobile heritage and monuments. Finally, I would like to address a few minor issues: international and archaeology. Cultural heritage is everywhere and is also the source of the story about the history of the Netherlands. It makes our past visible and thus strengthens our historical and cultural awareness. We feel connected by our cultural heritage. It determines where we come from and who we are now, so it largely determines our identity. It is sometimes very beautiful and sometimes less beautiful. Mr Pechtold gave a good example of this when he pointed to the Golden Coach. Beautiful and glorious, even today, but in the Golden Coach there is also a panel that refers to the homage of the colonies, which has recently been brought to the attention and which also contains a less beautiful part of our history. Mr Pechtold also referred to the exhibition "Gearde kunst" in Arnhem, which I was allowed to open, where a relationship is established between art and the time of the occupation during the Second World War. Mr Bishop also said it nicely. He felt that the heritage is actually the DNA and that we are the carriers of it. We therefore have a great responsibility for the way in which we deal with it, with the frame of reference of past, present and future generations. But that's not all. In the debate on the quality of the environment, our cultural heritage can no longer be ignored. In addition, cultural heritage is also important in science and can form a basis for scientific research. Finally, our cultural heritage also has an important economic value. Every year many tourists from the Netherlands and abroad visit our museums and monuments. Sometimes there are so many people I look at a city like Amsterdam that the residents wonder if it is going well and if it is still their city. In any case, cultural heritage is a source of income for the rural and local economy. Mr Pechtold asked me for a general definition of heritage. Let me answer him that there is no single definition. The image of heritage is constantly changing. It is a dynamic sector in which opinions are often re-evaluated. What is considered to be very special at one point is perhaps not a few years later. The closer it gets, the harder it gets to realize what to protect and what not to. I will come back to that later, but it is particularly true of recent monuments. The interesting thing about the sector is that citizens can have a completely different opinion on the heritage from the experts. Look at the concrete buildings from the fifties, which are on a list to protect. Some people find them very ugly, but from a historical perspective and a perspective of cultural heritage they are special buildings. So there's a battle going on about what's exactly valuable and what's beautiful. New insights are emerging. Who would have thought ten years ago that the Dwingeloo Radio Telescope would be a national monument? People thought that thing was mostly foul. So we see how history is rapidly changing. Then you need experts who are better than you and I know what the criteria should be to name the cultural historical character. These are criteria that relate to the cultural historical value, the science, the technical and historical significance of buildings, and the rarity and beauty of objects. They test objects and buildings against them. Criteria can be extended and adapted. This dynamic makes the cultural sector so special. How that has developed, Mrs Dik-Faber expressed herself beautifully with her reference to Victor de Stuers, who in his interesting article "Holland on his narrowt" wondered about the neglect of national cultural heritage and the poor organisation of Dutch museums. With Mrs Dik-Faber, I believe that this was a turning point in thinking about the cultural heritage and its protection. Since then, the government has played a role in protecting it, but at least as important are the numerous initiatives taken by individuals and citizens. But also the owners play a very important role in the defence and protection of numerous private initiatives, I say towards the VVD. It is about preserving cultural heritage, as Mrs Keijzer said, but also about making it accessible, taking knowledge and exploiting the further development of our country. Digitalisation also plays an important role in this context. It may contribute to further disclosure. The fact that the value of cultural heritage in our society is now widely recognised is also confirmed by the SCP report "Yesterday Today - Heritage Tax and Heritage Practice," which Mr De Vries also mentioned. I'm sorry, I'm out of line.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u103	The Minister means Mr Van Veen, who spoke on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u104	Sorry, I said De Vries. I mean Mr Van Veen. This is one of the first times we've had a debate with each other, so forgive me. Mr Van Veen also mentioned the Restoration Fair. That's a special event, which I've been to. There you can see the link between ownership, entrepreneurs, creatives, artists and citizens. I remember as the day yesterday the image that called it on me. There was an enormous amount of dynamism and commitment. This is also demonstrated by the support of the population. 80% of Dutch people are interested in cultural heritage. 20% is even very much interested. Almost three million people are very much involved in cultural heritage. Almost half of the population visited a museum at least once in 2012, with an average of four times. That's not bad at all. That shows great commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u105	I find the Minister's introduction an interesting attempt to find an answer to the question, what we are all looking for, what is the value of heritage, art and culture, and how we describe it. Merging all laws into this Heritage Act is a bit of a missed opportunity for my group. We support the need. I think that, in the further process, with some amendments, we want to go that way. I hear the Minister describe it all now, but wouldn't she also need to develop a vision of the role of government once and for all after the legal process? The Minister himself called all experts who could be involved. The doer that Thorbecke said politics isn't about what's beautiful and ugly, can we put aside? Because politics is about money, so it will also have to have a vision.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u106	I'd love to. I am always willing to talk about culture, heritage and views on it. I have also said once again that Thorbecke's view that politics should not interfere with that is not my vision and I think it does not fit in with this time either. Culture and heritage is part of our history, with which we identify. It gives, as Mrs Keijzer said, shine to our existence. Sometimes it rubs too. So we don't have to embrace it all the same. At the initiative of colleagues in the Upper House, I had an interesting policy debate on this matter not so long ago. What does culture and heritage really mean? I am always prepared to have that debate with this Chamber, perhaps during the budget debate, but as far as I am concerned, it is broader than just about heritage.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u107	I think we can throw each other the glove and pick them all up, too. My idea is indeed to take a little time at the next budget debate, so that we can also invite some ideas. A lot of valuable ideas will emerge from that. Around the budget, perhaps based on the discussion held in the First Chamber, the Chamber could then get a first start. I say this at the beginning of this debate, because I see the merging of laws into the Heritage Act as a start to the follow-up rather than that we would be finished after tonight. If the Minister sees this as true, I would ask her to take up the challenge and come back to it a little more extensively in the budget debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u108	I agree with Mr Pechtold. Maybe I'm just seeing a slightly longer term for a step-by-step approach. We are working with this law to combat fragmentation. We bring together all kinds of laws. For political reasons, but also for society, we are bringing together more the picture of where we stand with the heritage sector, how we give the overview and how we ensure that what needs to be protected is protected. But of course that doesn't mean we're here yet. I have just said that cultural heritage is not just something to protect and that it must never change. I will come back to that later. What if we would only protect all the churches in the Netherlands without ever having to change anything? One church is now allowed to live, another is a bookstore and another is a climbing wall made. That's all dynamic. This also requires that the sector itself moves along. The question of how to do it responsibly is difficult, especially when you have to talk about the present and about changes nearby. This is a responsibility that the Cultural Heritage Agency has to do with like no other. What is responsible and what isn't? But I am always prepared to debate this with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u109	I have a comment to make. I think it is a wonderful appointment in itself; these are always nice debates. But I would just like to determine at what point in time we are having a debate with each other. The Chamber is in happy anticipation of a letter about the new Art Plan, i.e. the starting points and, say, the nursery of the new cultural heritage of the Netherlands. I hope, however, that we will be able to hold the debate on the basis of that letter. So that would be in a few weeks' time. An important hearing is scheduled for 17 June. I expect we'll talk about this one or two weeks later. This vision and these principles will be a crucial part of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u110	Mr Monasch takes the words out of my mouth. I was just saying that I would like to have that debate; I am always prepared to debate it. But that should be a little wider than just the cultural heritage, no matter how important I think it is. It should be about the significance of culture and art in general. The Chamber will soon be able to expect a letter of principle from me for the new culture period 2017-2020. That seems to me to be the time to start the debate. What applies to cultural heritage also applies to the Chamber in relation to my responsibility: that debate is never finished. The Chamber may wake me up at night; I will come to debate that. We are talking about a legislative proposal which seeks to combat fragmentation and which is aimed at more than merely merging the existing one, I say to Mr Pechtold and to Mr Van Dijk, who did a little bit away with the words that it is merely privatisation and liberalisation. We set the bar high for protection, I say to Mrs Dik-Faber. What does this bill do? Firstly, it provides for a public law regime for careful decision-making on the disposal of cultural goods and collections by public authorities. I have had a lot of questions on this from Members. It is new that we are now recording this. The current private-law management agreements between the Empire as the owner of the collections and the museums as their manager are replaced by a public-law scheme that gives the museums, for which I am responsible, more certainty for the funding of the management of the national collection. That's not nothing, in my opinion. Secondly, the bill obliges me to accept high-quality cultural goods and collections for the national collection if the owner is no longer able to manage himself and he does not wish to transfer these cultural goods to the State. This will prevent the loss of important cultural property for which no one takes care of management. Parties other than the State, such as museums, will be given the opportunity to register as a possible buyer of a protected cultural property that threatens to disappear abroad. This, too, is an important step in improving the protection of heritage. Thirdly, the legislative proposal introduces self-regulation in archaeology to replace the licensing system for carrying out archaeological tasks. I'll get back to you on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u111	I'm just confused for a second. Is this an introduction to the cubes that follow?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u112	Yes. This is the "general" block.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u113	Then I will simply ask my question, so that the Minister can leave out this part of her answer later. The Minister talks about not offering cultural goods. In this way, she talks about the protection of cultural property. In my first term, I asked the Minister if real estate was included. I would like to hear from the minister or real estate that is not offered to the minister, is accepted.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u114	Not in all cases. That depends on its value. I think it was Mrs Keijzer who said: a government cannot become the assembly place for everything that everyone offers. It has to meet high standards.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u115	I'm not entirely reassured. Let me be clear. I'm assuming real estate isn't part of it. The Minister states that this is already a matter of protected property. So those goods already have a status. I have had a very wide-ranging discussion with a number of colleagues on this subject, and I would like to go back to that. If the goods which already have a protected status, including the immovable property, are offered to the Minister under the conditions laid down in the bill, is the Minister obliged to accept them?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u116	No. It is important to realise that a number of Members of Parliament have already said that this law has a close relationship with the Environment Act, which the Chamber discussed extensively yesterday. The Environment Act is and will be of great importance to the cultural heritage, as it protects a careful handling of the cultural heritage in the physical environment and the protection of archaeological monuments, town and villagescapes and cultural landscapes. Careful handling of our cultural heritage is a responsibility of municipalities and provinces. Like the Empire, they have responsibility for the conservation and management of cultural heritage. For this reason, I believe that consideration of local and regional heritage should also be made at local and regional level. In the direction of Mrs Dik-Faber, who has tabled an amendment on it, I note that I do not see in this proposal any place for the protection of cultural heritage of local or regional interest. I am therefore in favour of Amendment No 2. 9. I'm gonna have to advise against that. I note that it would oblige the College of B and W and Deputy States to draw up a Heritage Regulation for heritage of interest to the province or municipality. In my opinion, there is no need for that. Municipalities and provinces attach great importance to preserving their heritage and have sufficient opportunities to protect it. In addition, the amendment does not fit in with our constitutional system. Municipalities and provinces have their own responsibility. I would then take that responsibility away from them for the part relating to cultural heritage. Municipalities and provinces are now free to decide for themselves how this is set up. The amendments in this context restrict that freedom. For example, a regulation is not always the most appropriate argument. For example, the municipality of Maastricht records the cultural historical value in zoning plans. A regulation is therefore not necessary in this case to ensure effective protection. The amendment also provides that municipalities and provinces may lay down rules to protect their heritage. In my opinion, it is unclear what kind of rules are envisaged. Is it a matter of rules to prevent cultural goods from leaving a municipality? Property rights will then be restricted by a regulation, but that is extremely difficult. Such elements should be regulated by law, including in the light of the right to property under the First Protocol of the ECHR. In short, I do not see the added value of this amendment. I also note that VNG and IPO, municipalities and provinces, have expressed serious concerns, precisely because of the distribution of responsibilities. Apart from that, they also expect a large increase in bureaucracy and administrative burdens. All things considered, I advise against this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u117	The amendment in part No. So nine.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u118	The Minister has implicitly responded to my three amendments, because they are linked, but I am going to try to convince her. My amendments do not exactly lay down the rules. This really lies at local level, of course within the existing laws and regulations that municipalities and provinces must comply with. My amendments only stipulate that a province and a municipality should take account of their local and regional heritage. How they develop this further is obviously up to local and provincial democracy, but I believe that it is essential. The local and provincial heritage cannot be separated from our national identity and history. At the moment, there are holes. It certainly does not seem superfluous to me that somewhere in the law it should be established that municipalities and provinces are working on this. I cannot imagine anything about the argument about increasing the burden of VNG or IPO. I see municipalities and provinces doing very well. They will only see this amendment as a confirmation of their policy. However, I also see provinces, but above all a lot of municipalities that can make a difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u119	Let me take a look at Amendments Nos 9 and 10. It refers to a heritage regulation. It contains rules on the designation and protection of cultural heritage and on the establishment of a provincial or municipal heritage register. We ask a lot of municipalities and provinces. This goes far beyond the realization that there is an important task in this respect. In my opinion, they are already shaping them well at the moment. I don't see the added value of this. It is also contrary to the agreements in our state-law system on the responsibility of provinces and municipalities. In this way, the responsibility for the choices that municipalities and provinces have to make is greatly reduced.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u120	We have decentralised the tasks in the area of care to municipalities. In doing so, we have indicated clear frameworks, because we do not want people to fall apart. Of course, municipalities have their own responsibility to implement the policy and to give everyone the care they need, but within the frameworks of the Empire. Let me take an example from the Minister's own portfolio. Our library law sets out very clear frameworks for how municipalities should work on this. What is against giving a framework in the Heritage Act to the provinces and municipalities to at least recognise the importance of the heritage within their provincial and local borders? Because local and provincial heritage is an indispensable part of local and regional identity and of our national identity.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u121	Mrs Dik-Faber's amendments go far beyond the general remit of the Library Act in relation to a library. You are asking for a regulation and that means that each municipality must pursue its own heritage policy. The heritage policy that I see before me, and within the opportunities I have to protect special heritage, is about heritage that is uniquely important. I will come back to that later. Municipalities and provinces have long been able to protect what they consider to be important locally. They don't need a law for that. Above all, it provides a lot of additional regulation and bureaucracy. I do not see the added value and I note that municipalities and provinces themselves do not consider it valuable or necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u122	For the sake of explanation, these are two amendments. One relates to the municipal heritage and the other to the provincial heritage. The Minister gave her opinion on the amendment on municipal heritage: it did not recommend its adoption. It therefore also rejects the amendment in respect of item No. 10?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u123	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u124	The amendment in part No. 11 stays there for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u125	What is the amendment on item No. 11? So many amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u126	Mrs Dik-Faber just asked if you had responded together to all three amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u127	The amendment in part No. 9 is about the municipalities and that in part No. 10 on the provinces.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u128	The amendment in part No. 11 concerns the alienation of cultural goods, including those of regional or local interest. You have just mentioned the two amendments in which the regulation is dealt with. To the amendment in part No. 11, you'll be back. Then Mrs Dik-Faber will know that this amendment is still in place. I call Mr Pechtold.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u129	After the pleasant introduction, I'm starting to find this hard to find. I found the written answer so persistent, with a little locker-to-wall content. I hope we can do a little more business here. Of course the municipalities do not find this and of course the provinces do not find it. The Minister says it's going to bring with it a lot of bureaucracy. Well, let's see, because it hasn't been proven anywhere. Your colleague, Mr Plasterk, was planning to abolish two provinces during this period. How do we deal with that? Then where is the responsibility? In the municipality of Deventer the entire museum is closed, unfortunately by a fellow party member of mine. How do we know that the collection, after it's been dusting somewhere for maybe ten years, isn't being sold? Apparently, the whole museum wasn't important. I thought Mrs Dik-Faber had a very important point. In healthcare, infrastructure, traffic, green management and animal welfare, we all have national standards and ideas, saying: then the other governments are going to work on them. The concept of municipality can change at any moment. The concept of "province" may still change, even if it is the intention of this cabinet to do so. I really do not know why we say that when dealing with heritage, we leave it to the municipalities and the provinces. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. I want to know two things about the Minister. Where does she get the wisdom that it's all well arranged if there are still such holes in it? Where does she get the wisdom that it produces a lot of bureaucracy? I do not see any justification for this. Then I just want to see the hard numbers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u130	That's what's in the amendment. The comparison with the Library Act is interesting in that respect. In that law there is an assignment about what a library is, namely that a library is more than a place where books are lent out. It's also a meeting place. Municipalities cannot just close a library without consulting with adjacent municipalities. However, here we are talking about a heritage regulation which must contain rules. This should therefore take the form of heritage rules at local level, for each municipality and for each province. The core of my law is that we do so at national level. If there are things that deserve special protection, we give them. We'll do it on a national level. I do not think it would be desirable to record this in this way. This is different from the message that heritage is also important at local level. These measures are really far more far-reaching than a regulation. That does not seem to me to be something we have to establish here. This can also vary from municipality to municipality. A small town will deal with that very differently than a big city. They may decide for themselves what protection they consider necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u131	I think the Minister is drawing the problem. If too many differences remain and one municipality does and the other municipality doesn't, or otherwise fills in, stakeholders who think that their municipality is doing it wrong will all turn to the minister. We currently have 400 municipalities and 12 provinces. As far as I'm concerned, we're gonna take the water boards and the universities. That's all still clear. If you offer them some kind of uniform, you help a lot of congregations. Of course they'll know in Amsterdam. In a municipality with 15,000 inhabitants, and we have many of them, the official who deals with this is probably also responsible for the cemeteries and the maintenance of the sports fields, if he is not also a compulsory education officer by chance. It could just be that at that moment the knowledge is missing. Because that's what we're talking about. We are not talking about churches with unwillingness or ignorance, but about ignorance. What we are asking for in this Chamber is to treat heritage now in this small frogland as something we all set a standard for, in municipalities, provinces and, as far as I am concerned, even more. In this way we prevent, in my opinion, the Minister from turning to the government in the event of disputes or differences.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u132	But there really is a difference between what you want to protect at local or national level. I'm dealing with the artworks and heritage that are so important that you want to protect them on a national level. The municipalities and the provinces can have their own responsibility. They sometimes find their own forms for that. I just mentioned the example of the municipality of Maastricht, where cultural historical values are fixed in planning. A regulation merely creates additional burdens and adds nothing. What is different is that knowledge must be shared. You want municipalities to handle their cultural heritage responsibly. We have the Cultural Heritage Agency for this, which is developing a guide on how we can involve municipalities and provinces. I also have very regular discussions on culture with the municipalities and the provinces. So the question is whether you want to put all this into a law, and in such a way that every municipality has to make a regulation about it and that it cannot be done in another way. Given the state of play and the responsibility that municipalities and provinces take and what we are doing to exchange knowledge, I do not think that is necessary or desirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u133	To conclude, Mr Pechtold.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u134	I really feel the VVD breath in the Minister's neck here. The word bureaucracy falls again. Then it all becomes difficult and then we want to reduce that bureaucracy. In the introduction of the Minister, we have just found that it is actually an unexplored area. A number of laws are being merged, but the step to think about them has not actually been taken properly. In my first term, I did not want to put that in a blameworthy form. I was thinking, "We're gonna go through with that." In my view, it is minimum that the Minister takes some of the amendments, such as these, seriously. How can you imagine what regional, provincial or national importance is in this frogland? Is the image of Zadkine in Rotterdam about the bombing local? Yes. Is it regional? Yes. Is it national? Is it international? I can have whole discussions about the argument that it would only be local and why other art expressions show the Second World War much more as something national. In short, it is a discussion that never ends. I'm going to pass through the IPOs and VNGs, because they're from these nuisance organizations when it comes to this, but I just want to give the municipalities the room. Look, we think you guys should have a regulation. You don't have to do that tomorrow, but you take care of it. And we can help you with that. We can stimulate the expertise within and outside of your congregation. If the Minister really stays 'dissuade' and continues to do so with subsequent amendments, then I think it is a real piece of work and then I have to think again about what we are going to do with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u135	Mr Pechtold talks about a frogland. The advantage of that is that it's all not that far apart. We have a Cultural Heritage Agency that is extremely good and in close contact with the municipalities and provinces and that is thinking with those municipalities and provinces about how you can protect those cultural treasures, that cultural heritage that we have in the Netherlands, as best as possible, while you can still live in those municipalities and provinces, so that we won't be living in the National Museum of the Netherlands, but can also give our own meaning to that. Had I had any signals that municipalities and provinces could not handle that responsibility at all and that there would be a lot wrong there, I would have liked them to do so. But I don't see that right now. The only difference between Mr Pechtold and me is that I do not think it is necessary to include it in the law, with all the limitations of that, because a law is a law. It's not just something you give in the vein of "I hope you give meaning to this and good luck with it." No, you prescribe everything. We do not disagree about the fact that we should exchange this knowledge, that we should discuss with each other the relationship between the municipality, the province and the Empire. The only difference of opinion concerns the question of whether it should be enshrined in the law in this way. As far as I'm concerned, you don't have to. If Mr Pechtold would like to do so, I think that this amendment with these rules will also take a lot more steps than, for example, in the Libraries Act. It lays down conditions which are much more procedural and which are much more of an exchange. Mr Pechtold also asked a question about sintering Klaas. It will take some time, but he wondered whether we should not talk about this in the context of intangible heritage. Yeah, we should talk about that, too, but not about this bill. This bill is about protecting a broad spectrum of cultural heritage, but not about intangibles. The Netherlands has signed and ratified a UNESCO Convention on this subject. A good example of this is sinterklaas, but it's also about wriststick jumping, the flower corso and a lot of other things. That all fits in there, too. That is actually about keeping the intangible cultural heritage alive. We do this by giving heritage communities the opportunity to pass the heritage on to future generations. For this we have a special knowledge centre, the Netherlands Centre for People's Culture and Immaterial Heritage, which manages the national inventory. This may lead to nominations for UNESCO. Recently, I sent a letter to the Chamber about this. So that certainly has my attention, but it's not in this law. I come to the issue of the alienation of cultural goods by governments. A great many questions and amendments have been tabled on this subject. I understand the House's emphasis on the sensitive point: how exactly do we deal with it? We know that the examples have been mentioned: what consternation it gives when a work of art which is attached great importance is simply alienated. I would add that this is not just about alienation itself, but also about the threat of sales that can cause unrest, including the patronage. The Rembrandt Association has put that forward strongly. There is therefore also an interest of donors, in addition to that of the government and the public. Mr Pechtold and others have already said that this is actually about unwillingness, ignorance and ignorance. How can we handle that in a good way? Governments need to be careful about cultural goods, precisely in order to prevent interesting cultural goods from disappearing from the public sphere. It almost always goes well. Municipalities have been held out of their public responsibility in the disposal procedure to act carefully in the spirit of professional standards, as laid down in the LAMO and also in the VNG Directive on the disposal of cultural property. So it is often the incidents that cause fuss and discussion. Reference was made to the example of Dumas in Gouda and to other well-known examples. As a result, there is a need for better safeguards. Again: I find the starting point important that every government itself, as its owner, decides on alienation. I also note that in this Chamber the approaches go two ways. Where Mrs Dik-Faber of the Christian Union and I believe Mr Pechtold of D66 also want stricter rules, I hear Mr Van Veen pleading for more flexible rules. So the question is where we stand. I recognize from the premise that what is happening must be done carefully. That is why, with this bill, I am introducing a simple procedure that will allow an independent opinion on the cultural property in question to be issued before a decision is taken on alienation outside the government. In substance, this ensures careful consideration while at the same time providing democratic control bodies with an important tool for discussing alienation with the administration. There is therefore not a single right position to take on this alienation. It depends entirely on how we assess a particular cultural object at that time and what else can be found at local, regional or national level. So there is not only a great responsibility on the part of the government, but also on the part of the owner. We want to maintain that responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u136	Mr Van Veen, I see that you want to ask a question. I would first like to give the Minister the opportunity to complete her reply to the question of alienation. Then you can do the interruption. Then you've heard the Minister's entire story.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u137	Then I shall begin with the amendments, and there are quite a few on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u138	The general answer is thus complete. I shall give the floor to Mr Van Veen first. Otherwise we will have to go through all the amendments first.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u139	In the municipality of Mill there is a very well-known painter. He died by now, but his name was Kees Bastian. He's made a lot of paintings. If you sell a painting of him in the Land of Cuijk region, the entire population will fall over you. The man has made thousands of paintings throughout his career and they are all of sublime quality. So, can the minister do what she says? If a municipality says it wants to sell a painting, all paintings sold through that disinherited heritage must be notified to the minister. How the hell is she gonna implement that? I don't think that's possible. In any event, we have a right to obtain clarification from the Minister as to whether she can do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u140	I don't think I said that. A careful procedure must be put in place if cultural property is to be alienated. Mr Pechtold also asked how that would be done. This is going to happen with an independent committee. However, that committee is not about the local artifacts that I am dealing with. But at least it has to be careful.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u141	I understand what the Minister is saying. So my plea is that this is already well-known to the Minister of Culture, and not all kinds of paintings in the possession of a municipality.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u142	But it's also about the municipalities. We recently had the example of the World Museum in Rotterdam. There too, a decision to earlier sell cultural goods has been taken back by the municipal administration on the basis of a careless procedure. This also applies at municipal level, but at that time the municipality must determine what is "independent'. She can't just pull the trigger. But it's not like I'm pulling everything at me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u143	Can I, by way of exception, post another interruption?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u144	A small question to clarify.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u145	I just don't get it anymore. Is the Minister now saying that at the time when a municipality decides to sell 25 paintings, that municipality itself must have included in its heritage law a passage stating that it is done in a careful manner, that the minister has nothing to do with it and that, after that procedure, the 25 paintings can then be sold? Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u146	I do not quite understand Mr Van Veen's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u147	Maybe the Minister can explain briefly how the system works one more time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u148	The city can sell. The decision lies with the municipality.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u149	Exactly. And it doesn't need to be reported to the minister. Then I get it, and then it fits into my plea.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u150	However, the municipality must appoint an independent committee to consider whether that object, that cultural heritage, can be sold. If the committee states that this is a matter of particular national interest, I will come back to it later, because many amendments have also been tabled on this subject. It is up to the municipality to take a decision. However, I can point out a special item because it is of such national importance that it cannot be sold. But I will do so with great restraint.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u151	The Minister speaks of a careful procedure, but the opinion of the Council of State shows that it is quite critical of this. There will be a committee of independent experts. What expertise? There are no less than three people; there are not too many. Nor does the bill guarantee that the Minister will be informed in good time. The final decision shall not be subject to appeal by the citizens concerned. So what is left of the careful decision-making that the Minister is in favour of?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u152	As I have just pointed out, one of the crucial new points is that it goes from a private law to a public law regime. This means that there is a much heavier opinion of the government, both locally and nationally, and that it is therefore much less easy to just reject an object. So that makes the regulation really stricter. However, we will also have to leave a little room and have confidence. I have no reason not to have faith in municipalities that this is going well. When I look at the example in Rotterdam, I see that they have learned there. This has been discussed over and over again, including with my department. We've been looking at how to do this the best way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u153	I see the movement that is being made in the bill, but I do not hear the Minister say anything about the criticism that the Council of State has. I'm gonna take one point. How is the Minister informed in good time so that she has the opportunity to intervene? A number of parts of the procedure now contained in the legislative proposal have really been criticised by the Council of State. I also think it is right for colleagues to have tabled amendments to that effect, because we do not have the necessary care. Before the Minister knows it, a decision was taken somewhere that she was not even aware of.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u154	I really think it's a cover-up that's being sketched here. As if we do not have a very good consultation system with the museums, with all those involved in the Netherlands. Like we don't have LAMO, not the rules that apply and you have to follow in the register. As if not all municipal and provincial museums are affiliated to the Museum Register. As if there were one church that would easily lift hands with it. As if there is no UNG directive that encourages careful action in the event of rejection. I don't see that. Moreover, I do not see that the Council of State is now so critical of the procedure. The Council of State has said that I, as a minister, must be put in a timely position in order to intervene. That is why we have a duty to report so that I can intervene in good time. A number of amendments have been tabled, other than those I have just mentioned, which are still trying to tighten that up. Let us not pretend that there is a movement in which municipalities and municipal museums would now sell entire depots. That is not the case. A lot of safeguards have already been put in place. The question is whether you need more legal guarantees than are contained in this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u155	I'm in your hands, but if we're all gonna do the interruptions in threes, it's gonna take a long time. I will allow it now, because I have done the same to others, but I call on the spokesmen to do the interruptions in two. Otherwise we will be here until very late.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u156	Let us point out that the Christian Union does not want strict rules, but careful ones. The Minister refers in her reply to the LAMO and VNG directives. Those are just two directives that are not legally anchored. In practice, we see that they are not always properly applied. The field also says they are insufficient. Once again, the Minister pretends that there is a careful procedure, but in practice we see that there are gaps. Should we not, not to be strict but to be careful, take further steps in the law with our national heritage?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u157	Yes, but without putting us in a situation where we're going to prescribe things that aren't necessary. I also have a lock on the door. As a minister, I have the opportunity to destroy an alienation decision. If you really think it's gonna go wrong, you can destroy a decision. It's in the law. That is necessary to be able to intervene if it really is not going well. However, we already have so many forms of consultation and so many rules and we note that things are generally going well. Museums and all the others involved regulate themselves to do better. Look at what happened to Dumas in Gouda, look at the World Museum. The museums and the Museum Association draw conclusions from this. I note that the legislative proposal on these points is already stricter than what we have now. We should not unnecessarily close that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u158	I think the Minister's story is rattling. A city doesn't have to do anything. That's the pride I object to that committee. Firstly, the municipality does not have to set up a committee. Does the Minister agree with me or not? The municipality may assemble the committee itself. Does the Minister agree with me or not? The municipality may disregard the outcome. Does the Minister agree with me or not? Those are three moments in the balance that can be said: never mind. Or one starts with it, who one puts in it and what one does with it. It may be just excesses that we are experiencing and seeing now, but who knows what is happening. It could be the tip of the iceberg. The Council of State thinks it's rattling legislation. There's no appeal. We now come to a second important part of the amendments. I hope the Minister will take this up, because I see that in the First Chamber colleagues are looking at it quite differently and more closely in line with the Council of State. I really do not understand why we cannot formalise that such a committee is transparent. I also do not understand why the Minister says: I am ultimately the Crown and I can intervene. I say aspirin and the minister says horse medicine.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u159	No, I say again that the Council of State is not critical of that whole procedure. However, the Council of State believes that the government, the Crown, I as Minister, should be in a position to intervene. I'm in that position because I can intervene in the reporting obligation. If I see that there is a reason to deviate from the decision the municipality wants to take, I can destroy that decision. A municipality must set up an independent committee. You can't just name a few friends, as you suggest. The Museum Association has a commission, which is used as appropriate. I can lay down in the law that they have to involve these people, but it may be more useful in any case, depending on the subject at issue, to engage another expert. You can't just ask the neighbor for advice. I really think that Mr Pechtold is a very easy presentation in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u160	I have just used many examples from recent history of things that go wrong and that we know of. The minister now says that the municipality must employ a committee. I think that's a win over what we've had so far. This treatment of the law is instantly part of the legal history. The Minister now says that a committee must be set up. I have two more problems: who comes in and can the advice be given without a profession? If the Minister also meets me there, we have had some legal history through an interruption. However, I would have preferred it to have already been in the original proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u161	Well, then it's a good thing we're changing this now. Municipalities must indeed set up a committee on reasonable grounds. If they don't, they're in violation of the law. Then the city has a problem. The composition is linked to criteria. The independence of that committee must be secured. You can do that through the Museum Association. I also see that the large municipalities, for example Rotterdam, have their own committee. If, on the basis of the advice of that independent committee, such a municipality still takes a decision which, in my view, is contrary to the absolute protection of cultural heritage, then I have the opportunity to destroy that decision on alienation. If irregularities occur or if a reasonable suspicion does not lead to a committee being set up, I can make use of them all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u162	I understand that there is still uncertainty on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u163	I only took up the article of the law, 4.17 a: if it can reasonably be suspected that the cultural property or the collection has special cultural or scientific significance and is irreplaceable and indispensable for Dutch cultural property. It is therefore left to the municipalities to implement this Article. That means, even before you start, a trade-off at the level where I don't want it, because then it never gets to us and the Minister can never use that horse medicine. I believe that this legal process should be more certain that alienation involves a committee that can pass the test of not interfering with the local jeweler who happens to know other things, that there is a possibility of appealing at the time the opinion is issued, that the whole process is transparent and notified and that its deadlines can reasonably make interest groups even more alert. That's not what it says right now. It says "reasonably possible to suspect." I think they really know how to come up with someone who says: well, we really thought about it, but we didn't think this was how it happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u164	If we do not do so, we shall still have that lock on the procedure. There will be a social debate, as we have seen in recent years. Nor should we want a municipality that wants to sell every candlestick or cute little painting that happens to be hanging there somewhere to go through that whole procedure. Municipalities have many responsibilities and limited resources. So they have to keep thinking about how you deal with that. I think that's a responsibility of the municipality. If there really is a special painting, take the example of Dumas and Museum Gouda, then there is not only a local discussion, but before you know it you will have a big national discussion. In that case, there would have been every reason to destroy the decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u165	I've been listening to this and I wonder if it's that complicated. I believe that we are talking about cultural goods, not already protected cultural goods. If that is the case, then the other paragraph applies. So here we are talking about cultural objects that you suspect are so special that they could be worthy of protection. Suppose at some point you think that something really special is going to be sold here. Is it not possible to use the urgent instructions? Couldn't that be the outcome of this discussion? That urgent instruction is also included in the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u166	Maybe that's possible, too. I should like to take a look at this article. I agree with Mrs Keijzer when she says that it is not the case that municipalities sell such things weekly. We are dealing here with very special cases. Two examples have already been reviewed a number of times. The first example was the Dumas in Gouda in 2011, and the second was the Mondrian in 1987. Perhaps, as a third example, to some extent, we should mention the World Museum in Rotterdam. The municipality itself said, however, that we are going to deal with this in a different way. In this case, it has not even come to that. So this happens very rarely. In all these cases, we have the lock on the door. Perhaps the urgency procedure can also help in this. I will come back to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u167	I agree that this has not happened so often, but the policy of the current cabinet has led municipalities to simply have financial problems. I agree with the Minister when she says that in municipalities, as in the Chamber, there is an absolute sense of culture and of special matters. However, I think it would be wise for the Minister to consider the deadlines for this later on during the suspension. In situations where there is a danger that it will go wrong, you must have the time, for example for such an urgent instruction. In this way you can prevent the end of the world from using the extremely far-reaching means of destroying such a decision. Furthermore, if there is more time, there is also, as a lock on the door, the placing of affected citizens in a position to object and appeal to them. I am referring here to the Amendment No 1 tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 5,
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u168	I do indeed come to the amendment to item No. 5. However, I would like to take away the image that a government would sit back and do nothing at all and then use the provision to destroy the alienation decision. There are, of course, all kinds of forms in between. I have very regular meetings with municipalities for a reason, especially with the large municipalities. I have discussions with the smaller municipalities through the VNG and the IPO. These consultations are always very constructive. So we have very different ways. We also have the LAMO directive and we have a VNG directive. So it is not that there are only a few people who decide something and then there is a decision with me. There is a degree of care in this which, in my view, provides adequate protection; I say that again. However, I will come back to the matter of the urgency procedure in the second period.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u169	Mrs Keijzer wishes to make a final comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u170	I'm standing here because I do see some holes in the law. I really think it's important to see how we can make that right. Anything the minister says about the way things are going at municipal level is true. I agree with her on those points. However, you write laws for situations where things go wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u171	I think the Minister has heard the wide-ranging concerns that exist in the Chamber. There is also a second deadline, in which we can come back to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u172	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I come to the amendment to item No. 5, which introduces remedies against a decision on alienation. I would advise against that amendment. In the case of the alienation of cultural goods by public authorities, it is primarily the social debate that is important. I just said that, too. It is a question of creating social support. I read in the amendment that you can't get that through court. I agree with that. However, the amendment deals with the inclusion of the possibility of appeal and appeal. I don't think that's a good way either. In my opinion, I have just said that, as I said, the City Council, Provincial States or the Chamber give the opportunity and arguments to talk to a director about the alienation plans, to call that director to account and to enter into the discussion. The Council of State has recommended that the Minister be placed in a more position. That is why we have included the obligation to report. I believe that this is a sufficient condition to meet the concerns and that the decision-making procedure is sufficiently attached. The way in which the amendment is introduced goes back to private law, whereas we want to shape it in public law. Following the amendment does not seem to me to be the right way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u173	The possibility to lodge an objection and appeal is precisely a public law instrument. It puts citizens in a position and it ensures that citizens concerned get something to say on this point. In addition, I hear the Minister say that it is not good if we leave the case to the judge. However, in the legislative proposal, the Minister even leaves the fixing of a selling price to the judge. I do not think that is such a strong argument. Does the Minister therefore wish to reconsider the involvement of the citizen? If careful work has been carried out, with a good committee, Mr Pechtold argued there too for a good opinion, where the procedures have gone through in the right way, an objection will not be effective. We are particularly concerned about ensuring the importance that we all stand for. Will the Minister reconsider her position?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u174	Then Mrs Keijzer must first explain to me who we are doing a service to. Is that the citizen who says that a particular work of art is so important to his congregation that it cannot be alienated? Or is that the owner of the work of art? That's a big deal. Many amendments have been tabled, and I come to speak about them, which aim to improve the protection of cultural heritage. I believe that Mrs Keijzer's amendment does not contribute to this. I do not think that the proposed amendment is the best way of shaping it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u175	The amendment proposes to add a third paragraph to Article 4.17, which regulates this objection and appeals. This is about the cultural heritage of the State, the provinces or the municipalities. That's about alienating the government of cultural property in property. For this purpose, the possibility of appeal and appeal shall be opened. At least that's what I'm trying to do. The amendment thus does not in any way interfere with private law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u176	Mrs Keijzer is now adding a new member to the amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u177	No, the amendment proposes to add a new paragraph to the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u178	Okay. Perhaps it would be good if I first discussed all the amendments. I understand the concern of the Chamber. I would like to respond to this on a number of points. However, if we were to incorporate all these amendments into the law, we would have a law that does not do any more justice to municipal autonomy and municipal responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u179	With a view to dealing with this subject as a whole, I propose to Members that we first give the Minister the opportunity to provide an assessment of the amendments, having heard the concerns of the Chamber. Then I'll give you plenty of room to respond to that. Can you agree to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u180	I'm beginning to discover a pattern in answering the questions. I may have raised some philosophical questions in my contribution. Who owns it? What exactly does "owner" mean? How does the Minister view this? We are talking about a cultural expression that loses its commercial value as soon as it enters the collection.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u181	What collection?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u182	From the county, from the Empire, from whatever. It would be crazy to keep looking at something from its commercial value at the time we buy it, acquired it or donated it. That is also a part of the protection that is separate from the finances. In that sense, I also think that ownership means management, but not in the sense of capital that you can make money if it suits you. If the Minister shares this with me, then the moment it leaves the collection again and suddenly it represents a financial value, the exception. That requires a very careful consideration. That's not what this law's gonna do. Then it's a piled-up mess of different laws. Apart from excesses, of which there are too many, my group would like to take this moment to take advantage of what we cannot see when something is no longer public property and, in addition to a cultural value, is given a financial value again at all levels to provide good guarantees, uniform committees, uniform procedures. That should not depend on what Mr Remkes or Mrs Jorritsma think. Does the Minister agree with me that property means "public" because the donor or anyone could not leave it other than to the State or a municipality, and that responsibility is greater and changes if it becomes commercial?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u183	I can go a long way with Mr Pechtold. Of course, the value of cultural heritage is certainly not primarily in its commercial significance. We agree that this must be done very carefully. The only question is what you want to lay down in the law on that. I say that independent expert advice should be sought. When that happens and people disagree with it, this is the subject of a public debate. This gives the city council, Provincial States and the Chamber the opportunity to call the director of the alienation plans to account. Then, as a last resort, it gives me the opportunity to nullify a decision to engage in alienation. At the same time, there is a municipal responsibility, in which a municipality has to weigh up. I am looking in particular at Mrs Keijzer, whose party I see as a party that would like to leave matters with the municipality. Think of laws like the Wmo. Then a municipality must also have some freedom of movement. That must be done extremely carefully. This must be justified and argued, especially if something of cultural value is to be transferred to a domain where it has a commercial value, because it is going to be sold. But apart from the very special works of art that have a national significance, the consideration of how many works of art you want to have in a municipality is ultimately a municipal consideration. It must also make other considerations, which we all consider important here, for example considerations relating to caring for the socially weaker, for which municipalities also have responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u184	Now it gets really bad, because now the Minister even challenges me by saying: the balancing is caring for the socially weaker against the collection you manage. I'd almost say this is the red rag! The minister calls the LAMO. Put him in the law, but he's not there. The minister says the VNG has rules. Put them in the law, but they're not there. I find it difficult to say it at this stage of the debate, but I believe that the Minister should read that part of the law again. It is a matter of weighing up whether a committee is to be set up. It's a trade-off that people place in it. It is a consideration of what is done with the opinion. We have not settled this until the Minister says in this legal process: no, it is an obligation to have a committee of independents in the event of alienation, and it should be possible to appeal. But that's not in the law. I do not want us to go out tonight, everyone is tired and, as I see from some colleagues, thinks: we are already at 5 p.m. and let the Minister walk. Because the minister says things here that aren't in the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u185	I have just indicated what the law says, namely that a committee should be set up on reasonable grounds of suspicion. Mr Pechtold has just quoted that himself. Surely it would be too crazy for words if a committee should be set up for each candlestick of which there are already 10,000 and which sells a municipality in any case, always? That must be done if there is a reasonable presumption. And if a community doesn't, others will signal it. Look at the two examples of the past fifteen years; it is not that we have these examples every year or every week. Because fortunately we all love cultural heritage in the Netherlands. Not only the Chamber and I, but also the citizens, as I have just pointed out. If, in one case, a municipality does not accept its responsibility, this will also lead to a social debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u186	Mr. Pechtold, finalizing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u187	This is VVD talk. I also hear praise behind me, so this only encourages me to say that. Do you know those two beautiful tulip vases, one of them from France, which are now joined together? One would just stand in the Rijksmuseum and the other at a municipality where the balls are known. That is not unwillingness, but people simply think: that is an old vase; we sell it together with a lot of other things. I'm ridiculing it on purpose because the minister is talking about a candlestick. That candlestick could be one half of a pair of which the other one is somewhere else. That candlestick could be a gift from a family who thinks: if you're gonna sell it, we'd like to talk about it. If the Minister says they are obliged to do so, it is not the word "reasonably." For any director, any board of a museum who, in the atmosphere of the minister and the VVD that I am feeling here, can reasonably find it all but a lot of hassle and interference. The Minister can say: yes, but I can intervene in the end. No, she can't, because it never came to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u188	Mr Pechtold himself rightly says that he is ridiculing. I would also like to challenge him now and ask how many examples we are talking about now where things almost went wrong. I have just mentioned the example of Dumas and Mondrian. We have to make laws with each other for which we have a reason and which we can reasonably consider to be the basis for a problem. We have the VNG directive and the LAMO, and I as a minister have the opportunity to intervene. And we have, I say this once again because it is clear for municipalities to establish an independent committee in the event of a reasonable suspicion. If they do not, then there is also a problem with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u189	Chairman? I was challenged...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u190	Mr Pechtold, you have made your point very clear. I would also ask the Minister not to raise this challenge, because there are always plenty of Members of Parliament who would like to address it. There is also a second term. I give the floor to Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u191	I gotta say, D66's into culture. Maybe something crazy will happen if they do the same to other public sectors. In my view, this is what we are talking about in the debate and in the Minister's speech. She says: this law is precisely there to strengthen the protection of cultural heritage. Now we have the advisory committees and the minister can intervene, but part of the Chamber says: we would also like an appeal. That candlestick is a good example, because the Minister himself says: I do not want to set all kinds of things with every candlestick. Come on, but what is wrong with this appeal procedure as a kind of emergency brake, in which the owner says: I do not want this candlestick to disappear abroad and if not to be visible to the public?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u192	In my opinion, this brings with it unnecessary regulation. We sealed this off with the appeal I have to annul a municipality decision. I do not think that is necessary. There's a reporting obligation. A city or province must always report an alienation to me. In the end, I can consider whether it's such a special case. I think, frankly, you're doing the owner a favor with this. I wonder whether this will help to protect the cultural heritage that we want to protect better than the current law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u193	The Minister himself has said that she is not going to perform with every candlestick or painting. So we've already been warned. Then there is the advisory committee, but it is still a question of whether it really is going to be there. So we are missing an extra guarantee here. That would be the appeal procedure. I do not think the Minister should be so afraid that it will be set up every day. Her only argument left is that of the VNG. In short, leave us alone. Isn't that very liberal? Wouldn't the Minister be able to reason a little more from her own political background?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u194	Mr Van Dijk does not well reflect my words. I did not say that the VNG said leave us alone. That's not my story. My story is that we have mandatory expert advice. This advice gives the city council, the Provincial States and the Chamber the opportunity and arguments to hold the director responsible for the alienation plans. There must be an alderman who says he's gonna alienate a certain part, whatever it is. Since this has to be reported to me, there is a duty of notification in the law. I can always say: this is of such cultural significance that alienation cannot be considered. I can therefore annul a decision. If you allow another very complicated legal procedure for appeal and appeal to pass through, then you put the responsibility where it does not belong, I think. It's supposed to be a political balance in the end. It must be either by a municipality or by a local authority. Alderman, either by the government or by the government. to be made to me. I don't think we're helping cultural heritage with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u195	I would ask the Minister first of all to pass through all the amendments relating to the question of alienation and to state clearly what numbers they are referring to. Then we will see if there are any questions left open.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u196	I will pass the amendments in order of their numbers. I shall begin with the Dik-Faber amendment to item No. 11. I have not yet discussed that amendment. Is the disposal of cultural goods or collections in the hands of the State, provinces or municipalities also considered as regional or local interest? I would advise against that amendment. We have already discussed this in detail. I am concerned about whether cultural goods as a whole are indispensable and irreplaceable. The debate on cultural goods of local or regional interest should also take place at local or regional level. What can be of particular significance in one municipality, it does not have to be in another municipality. This was well illustrated in an article in the NRC Handelsblad last Friday. The Vereniging Rembrandt has contributed to the purchase of a silver guild cup for a museum in Deventer. For that museum it is a top piece, but there are more such cups in the Netherlands. You have to leave the responsibility where it fits best. That is why I do not recommend this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u197	I see Mr Pechtold standing at the interrupting microphone, but the Minister will now first provide a response to the amendments. Then there's an opportunity for questions. We've just had a very long time for interruptions. We are going to deal first with the amendments; then there will be another possibility of interruptions. Questions may then be asked about all the amendments, but we are now dealing with all the amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u198	Mr Van Veen's amendment to item No. 13, I also advise against. He proposed that the alienation procedure which governments should follow should be deleted. I have just said that where Mrs Dik and Mr Pechtold want stricter rules, Mr Van Veen wants even more flexible rules. I think the procedure I have incorporated into the law is useful and necessary to ensure that cultural heritage does not just disappear and falls into the wrong hands. That will be clear in the meantime. I would advise against that amendment. Then there is the amendment to item No. 14 by Mr Pechtold. It introduces a period of reflection of thirteen weeks. In general, I am not in favour of changing my mind, because I will soon think of abortion and other issues, but in this case it may be useful when it comes to destruction by the Crown, because then it is occasional. In formal terms, it may not really be necessary to set up a period of 13 weeks, but the author wants to prevent a municipality from doing something wrong before I, as a minister, have been able to make a decision, which means that a cultural heritage has already disappeared across borders or has fallen into the wrong hands. With the amendment, there is always a certain period between the decision taken and the time I have to annul that decision. I understand that argument from the author, especially in view of the discussion that has just been made. I leave the opinion on the amendment to the Chamber, but it does add up to the tasks of the government. I also know that there is a regular discussion with the Chamber about the fact that it should be easy to reduce public authorities and adjacent services, but this amendment is not going to do so. I think it is important for the Chamber to be aware of this. Then there is the amendment to item No. 16 by Mr Pechtold on the publication of alienation in a register to which everyone can respond. That is what the amendment is about. 5 by Mrs Keijzer. I have indicated that I think it is important that there should be a public debate in the event of a certain suspicion, through the mandatory expert opinion. I also think it is important to involve more citizens in the alienation of cultural goods, precisely in order to create social support. I therefore find it interesting to involve citizens. I also think it is highly desirable for a social debate to take place, but in this form the amendment does not lead to the proper procedure. In particular, it would lead to procedural and administrative tightening and to a doubling of the advisory obligation. In addition, the proposed disclosure applies to all cultural objects involving alienation and not only to cultural objects on which there is a reasonable presumption, as I have included in the law, because it is not equally important for every subject to be debated and weighed. I find that too burdensome, especially if the amendment on the extension of procedures for municipalities was the amendment in part No. 15, but that is now the amendment to item No. It is also adopted, because then it all adds up. I would leave the opinion on the amendment to the Chamber if it were limited to cultural goods, which are reasonably presumed to be indispensable and irreplaceable for the Dutch cultural heritage, and if the publication could be designed in its own right, rather than a register. This means, however, that the amendment should be amended. I do not recommend the adoption of Mr Van Veen's amendment to item No. 17 on the designation of protected cultural goods or a collection only with the consent of the owner. That won't be a surprise. With this we would go on to see the position of the owner and own cultural property only as a private or commercial interest. In the interrupting debate with Mr Pechtold, I indicated that it was precisely the balance where cultural value prevails and where financial or commercial value prevails. I believe that the procedure we have incorporated into the law is balanced. I would add that most owners are very positive about an indication, because it is also felt as a form of recognition. It is seen at all not only as annoying interference of a government, but also as recognition of the great commitment that one has to the culture. In Mr Pechtold/Dik-Faber's amendment No. 21 is asked to include cultural goods in the scope of the law in the hands of legal persons other than municipalities, provinces and the Empire under public law. I hope that Mr Pechtold is pleased that I leave the opinion on this amendment to the Chamber, because I think this is a convincing reasoning. We are talking about provinces and municipalities. The proposers add the waterboards to that. I can see why it wouldn't make sense to shut it out. This also applies to other legal persons governed by public law. Think of universities, which may have very valuable art in their possession, which we do not want to alienate without proper consideration and a good debate. The Jasper Van Dijk amendment to item No. 23 aims to use the proceeds of the alienation of a cultural object exclusively for the preservation or development of collections under the management of museums. I would advise against that amendment. It is a genuine violation of the responsibility and autonomy of co-governments with regard to the free use and use of resources. It's two-and-a-half. Or you say: this is an object that has such special meaning that it needs to be protected. Then you have to protect it and not talk about the financial consequences. Or you say: it belongs to the municipal autonomy to be able to renounce it. Then it is also up to the municipality to decide what to do with the resources. Mr Van Veen asked about the return of art obtained during the war. That is why we have the Refund Committee. Many proposals are still being tabled. The Netherlands plays a major pioneering role in the area of the restitution of predatory art. I believe that, where appropriate, art will still be returned where it has fallen into the wrong hands. That's how I got to the end of this block.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u199	I would like to begin by asking Mr Pechtold to answer the question put by the Minister concerning the amendment of Amendment No 2. 16. Does he intend to amend the amendment in the direction requested? Mr Van Veen already gave me the signal that he would like to respond to the Minister's response to his amendment. Mrs Dik-Faber also has a question. I suggest we do it in that order. I call Mr Pechtold.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u200	For me, it's a little related to setting up that committee. It's like the minister and I are talking past each other, or having a completely different sense of urgency. The Minister says that at some point that committee is going to run. I am afraid that, for whatever reason, malicious or benevolent, that committee will not be set up, because the balance at first is a different one. In the end, we will not even end up with the Crown, which is about to destroy the decision. If I let go of that'reasonably' and that committee from the first amendments, I hope that the Minister, which she will go along with in my analysis of the deadline, will also take up that register. I actually have exactly what I think is so important. That is the transparency guaranteed in one way or another. That's all I care about. Let me take the example of the minister himself, about that screaming cup. Anything could be going on with that. A fund could have contributed to that. That fund needs to look at Deventer all the time and see what's going on in that basement and whether he's going out. Those funds have more to do, because they have a lot of those collections to watch. It could be the guild, the next of kin, or the family that's on it. I am concerned that it should be transparent. If, in addition to the deadlines, the Minister joins me in that register, my feeling about this debate will be much more pleasant. It is a question of transparency. We may then continue to differ on the assessment of whether or not to set up the committee, but the register is very important to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u201	First of all, I will deal with the thirteen-week period. I think I have already said that I like that point. I understand that there are concerns about too fast decision-making. Because I do not want all kinds of hooks and controls on the front, I think this is a nice way to build a double lock without too much bureaucracy and administrative burden. After all, we already have a lock. Well, let me just say that. With the register, the question is who should make it. After all, we are working on legislation here. Does Mr Pechtold see for himself that the municipality makes that register and that I put it in a national register, or put it in the register in which special art objects are placed? The question is how this should be done properly, assuming that I share with him the disclosure and transparency that the Pechtold is talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u202	I'm gonna go help the minister. That register doesn't have to be bureaucratic. I am concerned that stakeholders, especially the funds, the unions and so on, can see what is going on in a central place. We have a very simple register of stolen goods in which the National Police enter everything. Art dealers and everyone can see in that what is going on and whether they are dealing with goods that are burdened. If it is a question of managing a website, I think that some of the funds or associations of interest concerned are willing to do so. The intention can then be made clear for a number of weeks. In fact, I would like to leave that to the implementation and entrust it to the Minister. As long as there is only one national point where water boards and municipalities have to register everything. That's what you also read on the municipal page if you want to cut down a tree. That does not seem to me to be the biggest tax in regulation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u203	If the Minister can still respond to the point of the national register, then I suggest that you agree on the outcome of the further amendment to the amendment. We do not have to do this in plenary.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u204	Fine. If we can do this in such a way that the disclosure is done via the website government.nl, we have everyone. It'll look a little like the found items in the police department. However, we need to see if the amendment is still in line with that. I would like to take a look at that with Mr Pechtold.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u205	The amendment in part No. 16 will therefore be amended in the light of this discussion. Mrs Faber was standing here first, but I'm gonna take a look at Mrs Keijzer. If your input relates to the discussion that has just taken place on the amendment to item No. 16, I'd like to give you an opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u206	I do have a sense of the Minister. Mr Pechtold can of course tell it all in flames, but when I look at the amendment I think to myself: what the hell are we all organizing together? There's gonna be a national register. If we can solve that easily, that is of course wonderful. The intention to dispose should be included for at least six months. A General Administrative Measure should then be introduced. I don't know if the minister has that on her retina. It should also determine how to advise in a sufficiently substantiated manner "on the question of whether the alienated cultural property..." Well, and then the whole story about the Heritage Act. Aren't you gonna shoot this through a little bit? I say that to the Minister and to Mr Pechtold. Isn't this a pacifier for all those concerned citizens? If they already end up in that General Measure of Management to be able to advise, I would like to know, if the Minister remains with her advice, they may then not object and appeal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u207	I repeat that I reject the amendment as it stands. I hope that Mr Pechtold, together with others, and certainly with Mrs Keijzer, will draw up a new amendment. Mrs Keijzer's amendment to item No. In part, 5 has the same aim, namely to involve the social debate, social support and citizens. The question is how do you do this in a way that does not create unnecessary bureaucracy and regulation and yet pays particular attention to the concern of many Members of Parliament about alienating cultural heritage. Of the amendments which aim to continue with this care, I think this is the amendment which, together with that reflection period, is closest to the intention of the law. I can appreciate it, but it has to take shape in such a way that it's all a bit lighter and less. In its present form, I advise against the amendment, but in a different form without a beaten register and lean and mean...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u208	The possibility that you may be given an advisory right as a citizen in a General Measure of Governance does not, of course, mean anything to a citizen concerned. You'll just have to wait and see if you get into it. That's one. Two: today is the VNG Congress on which David van Reybrouck speaks. He has wonderful ideas about participation and participation in society. If there's any reason for the citizen's participation, it's when he turns out he doesn't have anything to say. That is why I am in favour of giving citizens a position in administrative law. This is really different from perhaps the possibility that they will be able to give advice through a General Measure of Management. I just have to see if the friends of know much about what, for example the silver cup, will end up in that General Measure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u209	I do not hear a clear question, but perhaps the Minister would like to respond to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u210	I do not want to repeat myself, but let me say that I agree with Mrs Keijzer that Mr Van Reybrouck has extremely interesting ideas about civic participation, but that we do differ on how we should translate these ideas into this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u211	I would like to give Mrs Dik the opportunity to interrupt and ask the interrupters if they would like to indicate clearly what amendment they are asking a question about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u212	I have a question on the amendment to item No. 11. The law speaks of Dutch cultural property. My group has felt it necessary to define this clearly, because there is uncertainty about it. As far as we are concerned, it is national, regional and local cultural heritage, simply because there is virtually no distinction between these categories. The example of Zadkine's sculpture in Rotterdam has already been mentioned. And there are other examples where it is very difficult to determine whether something is of local, regional or national importance. I believe that all three should be included in the concept of 'valued cultural heritage'. At the time when alienation is at issue, the uniform bar should be measured. I am actually very surprised that the Minister is not advising on this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u213	It relates to my assessment of the amendments to the documents. 9 and 10. I should decide what has a special local or regional significance. And I can't, because that's the difference between a national and a local responsibility. Something that can be of special significance locally does not have to have a lot of added value at national level. The city council should do that together with the mayor and aldermen. In the province this must be done with deputy states. There is also the knowledge of content to see whether an object or heritage has a special significance for the local and regional community. I can't. I don't have the knowledge and the possibilities for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u214	In this respect, it would have been nice if the other amendments had also received the support of the Minister. I would like to come back to the answer. On the one hand, the Minister indicated that she considered cultural goods as a whole to be important. On the other hand, it indicated that what is of interest to one municipality does not have to be of interest to the other municipality. So there is already a lack of clarity and contradiction in the Minister's reply. My group does not see why something of local importance would not fit our national identity. The contradiction that lies in the Minister's reply and the ambiguity that lies in the law, I want out. What is locally determining for the identity of the person, the examples have been mentioned.... is also decisive for our national identity. Why is there this contradiction?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u215	The question is at what level the level of protection should be regulated. When it comes to local heritage, I think it should be done at local level. And if that happens there, I don't see why I have to add another guarantee to it nationally. Moreover, this is independent of the safeguards that I have just mentioned that they have been introduced into the law. I have said that in the interrupting debates with your Chamber and in the discussion of the amendments, I am prepared to put a number of other locks on them. However, in particular for cultural goods of local and regional interest, I do not think there is any need to include an additional guarantee.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u216	My question concerns the amendment to item No. 13. I didn't bomb the minister with a lot of words and force words. However, there is something in the amendment that I am referring to. 13 on behalf of my party. In fact, it helps the Minister to remove the very difficult decision on the issue of "no knowledge of what is locally important" by excluding the municipalities and the provinces. I therefore regret that the Minister does not agree with the idea that I shared in my first contribution, namely to distinguish between wealth and all other heritage. The latter is all very important, but municipalities can decide for themselves. What is the problem of regulating by law that municipalities themselves are concerned with the heritage which the Minister has established is not important enough to be a wealth of wealth?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u217	That is precisely the mirror image of Mrs Dik-Faber's amendment. She felt that there should be additional guarantees for local and regional heritage; Mr Van Veen felt that it could be omitted, that we should not do anything anymore and that it could be left entirely with the municipalities. I'm just trying to find a way in. I try to lay down the responsibility where it belongs, namely at local and provincial level, but at the same time to ensure that we do not unintentionally lose cultural heritage. In the end, we all find that irresponsible. A procedure has been devised for this, which leaves a great deal of room for both the local and the regional, while at the same time ensuring that there is a way out where Dutch cultural property is at stake.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u218	Then I'll do my second and maybe last try. Can the Minister implement the rule she is now drafting under point 4.2 with the capacity she currently has available in her ministry? Or are we going to put together a whole new department to handle all these reports? I can very well imagine that, if this law is passed, many local directors, council members, boards of supervision of universities and waterboards will have sleepless nights over the risk of running if they do not report that something may be of greater importance than they initially thought. In my view, it is impossible to report those more than 1 million pieces owned by the Empire to the Minister when something is sold. Can the Minister guarantee that her organisation is capable, to put it in English, of implementing this law in this way?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u219	Yes, it is, but I also said earlier that in my opinion it is sometimes underestimated how close the cooperation is in the cultural field in the Netherlands and how short the lines are. I have not only a Cultural Heritage Board but also a Cultural Heritage Agency. In municipalities there are many departments where there is a great deal of knowledge of cultural heritage. We have an association of museums, all of which have as no other expertise and know the codes. In that sense, I am not so very afraid that the knowledge would not quickly "to the point" to speak any English, would come to the people who should know it. So I think we can do it this way. However, I would warn, as I have just said in connection with Mr Pechtold's amendment, that it is important to keep it practicable so that we do not all have to appoint new officials. In my opinion, I have heard Mr Pechtold once again argue that it can all be a bit less for the government. There will be consequences, and we must realise that together. The same goes for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u220	The Minister continues her speech. That, I think, brings us to the end of the block of alienation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u221	I have a lot of other cubes, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u222	I think the next block is the interiors.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u223	Yes, the interiors and the ensembles. In fact, everyone has spoken about this, except for Mr Van Veen. I understand that, too, because I also recognise the importance of valuable interiors. Many monuments have special interiors and interior parts. These can be parts that are stuck, such as stucco ceilings, fireplaces, wall paintings or marble floors. They generally do not need additional protection, because they are really part of the monument. However, monuments may also contain movable property. This can be very diverse: furniture, carpets, paintings, books, table silver, crockery and so on. Such movable interior parts, if designated as cultural goods, are subject to the definition of movable heritage under the Culture Act. This means that possible protection from this is not tied to the building. We have also deliberately chosen not to include a provision extending the protection of a national monument with movable interior parts. I do not think that this is desirable, and I do not think that this will lead to the best protection for this type of heritage. However, as many of you have pointed out, and they have also given special examples, there are interiors that are so clearly part of the building that they cannot be separated. A nice example of this is the Hunting House Sint Hubertus on De Hoge Veluwe, made by Berlage. Both the interior and the building are of his hand. He has also had a tight hand in the way in which this has been achieved. Another example is Palace Het Loo, where complete interiors from different periods can be seen, from King-stadholder Willem III to Princess Juliana. But also House Sonneveld, mentioned by Mrs Dik-Faber, is an example. In other words, interiors and buildings are inextricably linked. There are also many religious buildings where valuable interiors, inventory and the building form one whole. Its preservation is particularly under pressure because of the empty position and the re-destination of churches. As I have just said, cultural heritage which must be protected must, at the same time, often allow for change. I think churches are a good example of this. If they are future-proof, something must also be done about them. After all, we do not want empty churches to stand alone. Sometimes they manage to give them a new function while maintaining the inventory, such as the churches of Frisian Beers and Pieterburen in Groningen. Crucial to this is the praiseworthy actions of owners, such as in this case the Stichting Oude Groninger Kerken and the Stichting Alde Fryske Cherken. There are also churches that get a place to live, where the preservation of the interior is difficult, as shown by the White Church in Bergen, a former reformed church of the architect Boeyinga, which has been converted into a number of luxurious houses. It has also succeeded in realizing houses in the Saint-Vitus Church of Pierre Cuypers in Bussum and the Roman Catholic Maria Church in Waalwijk by the architect Dom Bellot. That is a positive development, because otherwise those churches would have remained unused. A next category, where it becomes more complicated again, are the homes. Maintaining interiors with many movable objects is beautiful for a museum destination and that sometimes happens. Think of the House of Van Gijn in Dordrecht or the Mast Tree House in Old Gastel. However, you have to have a house that becomes a kind of museum, where everyone can go. However, a lot of houses are still inhabited and then it becomes a different story. The preservation of the interiors there is, of course, very much dependent on the way in which the residents deal with them. The same goes for outings. There are also valuable interiors. Mrs Keijzer spoke about this. A good example is the castle Middichten in De Steeg, where a few years ago the precious furniture was added to the already existing Stichting Kasteel Middichten and thus secured. It is thus certainly true that moving or removing movable objects in a protected monument can impair the total, especially if it is a Gesamtkunstwerk. The other extreme is that a monument and all movable objects that have a place there should never change again. We have been asked how we should deal with this. This must be done in such a way that we can protect these Gesamtkunstwerken and at the same time we do not prevent unnecessary changes, for example in a church where apartments have been made, by organising too much regulation density. I come to the amendment to item No. 19 by Mr Monasch. This calls for interiors and movable objects that form part of them to be an ensemble. There is no discussion about its importance. However, I must advise against the amendment as it stands. In my opinion, it is difficult from the point of view of legal principles. The introduction of a new instrument without new legal effects has no legal added value. The second reason is the lead practice. Criteria for designation shall be introduced which are at odds with each other. The designation of cultural objects is, after all, essential and irreplaceable for the Netherlands. These two interrelated criteria ensure that the main interior assemblies would not be designated, but only those where this combination is exactly possible. A third objection is that the amendment concerns the position of the owner of protected cultural goods. Due to security considerations, possible theft and privacy, it is stipulated that data of the owner and the residence of protected cultural goods often represent a high financial value. The designation of ensembles and the registration of protected cultural objects in the Register of Monuments would mean that the place of residence should be known, and this is not always desirable. The government should not provide information on the whereabouts of cultural goods in private possession. This may involve all kinds of risks that I would not take for my responsibility. That does not alter the fact that I like the intention of the amendment, given what I have just said. I could imagine that Mr Monasch's amendment would be converted into a motion, which would allow us to ask the Cultural Heritage Agency to register the most important interior assemblies. I would add that this must be limited. I have just mentioned a few examples. Mrs Keijzer mentioned the Berlage Stock Exchange. We know that there are other seats in the Berlage Stock Exchange, because fortunately there are conferences and such an institution is used. This certainly applies to all other places where people live and move at some point. You might wonder if family portraits belong to the house or to the family. What if someone had to go to a nursing home and take a portrait? Can't that be because it has to be protected? I want to limit that. With such a register, I think we could come a long way. I would also add that we have a programme of Interiors through the Cultural Heritage Agency, which I asked to start the programme Interiors in consultation with the field. This includes the following activities: identifying challenges and needs of the main stakeholders of interiors and ensembles; gaining insight into the stock and condition of these valuable interiors; identifying key interiors; digitally unlocking available knowledge and analysing and unlocking working methods that are followed within the field of work. The results of this programme will be made available to everyone, particularly through the web and through a new information system of the RCE, which also links with the Register of Monuments. A special register that could be given a place as a follow-up to that programme without us prescribing it legally could be an alternative to the amendment on item No. 19, that I'm deceiving as it is now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u224	I ask the Minister to finish the reply on the whole block first. I would ask Mr Monasch to indicate what he intends to do with the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u225	Mrs Keijzer asked whether the Granada Convention did not require an integrated approach. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, However, it indicates that all buildings of particular historical, artistic, scientific, social or technical interest must be protected, including the associated equipment. It refers to parts which are inextricably linked to this. Then we refer to stained glass, frescoes, carpentry and the like. It is really about the ingredients and not about movable elements. Mrs Dik-Faber asked how we oversee the designation of city and villagescapes. That is the responsibility of the Minister of I and M and of me together. The legal consequence is that municipalities have to draw up a protective zoning plan. That will not fundamentally change in the Environment Act. I can, together with the Minister of I and M, instruct a municipality to include protective regulations in the municipal environmental plan. The legal effect is therefore identical. Mrs. Dik-Faber asked about the national interior guard. I have just indicated that we have a very extensive programme of the Cultural Heritage Agency around the interiors. The interior guard is a provincial initiative of Brabant and Limburg which is mainly aimed at facilitating and supporting owners and users of interiors in the careful handling of interiors. Mrs. Dik-Faber asked about church interiors. I've said all I can about it. We have a number of churches whose interiors are also protected, often with the support of citizens' initiatives. At the same time, we must also offer room for new destinations for a church that loses its religious function. It is important that a new function can then be applied in the church. Mrs. Dik-Faber asked about the knowledge about the state of the city gardens. I don't have any signs that the city gardens are gonna fail. I keep my finger on the wrist through the National Monuments through the instrument of the Heritage Monitor. I also intend to carry out research into the conservation of so-called 'green monuments'. City gardens are part of that. If that research reveals that there is something in that sense, we will record it immediately. Mr Bishop has an amendment to item No. 20 on the link between protected cultural and national monuments, on the recording of decisions and on a register. I reject this amendment for a number of reasons. I have just mentioned this when I was talking about Mr Monasch's amendment. In addition, this amendment lays down protection in three places in the law without any legal effect. I'm not in favour of that from a legal point of view. If the register is to take shape that I have just promised Mr Monasch, I believe that the intention of Mr Bishop's amendment will also come a step closer. There is a relationship between what Mr Monasch wants and what Mr Bishop wants in his amendment. In Mrs Dik-Faber's amendment to item No. 22 is requested to involve the landscapes and the city gardens. As far as I am concerned, that amendment is superfluous, because parks, gardens and other land, landscape elements with or without built monuments, can already be designated as a national monument. This has also happened on a large scale in the past. The addition to the definition of state monument is therefore not necessary. That's what I wanted to say about interiors and ensembles, Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u226	In Mr Monasch's case, what does he think of the Minister's suggestion for his amendment to item No. 19 to be converted into a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u227	This is a little off the night of the big one. I hear the Minister's arguments for turning this amendment into a motion. I also listen carefully to the Minister's objections. I do not see how these objections would suddenly be removed by converting them into a motion. The Minister uses the argument that there would suddenly be access to what's in those houses. She does not want to take responsibility for this, because any potential burglar could know what he can find in such a house and what its value is. I can imagine that it is also insightful in a register at the Cultural Heritage Agency. So I don't quite see what such a conversion would solve. My second question is why it would not be possible to amend that amendment by including that text from that motion, so that it also has a legal anchor. Why should it have to go to a weakened form, regardless of whether I can manage to arrange it for the second term at all, and regardless of whether I would want it at all? My first, more fundamental question, however, is why I should not be able to put such a text into an amendment. Then it has a more solid base. When I listened to the Minister, I thought she was going to embrace this amendment in a very positive way. All the houses and other things she mentioned are precisely the objects described in the explanatory statement of the amendment. So I would like to hear a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u228	Yes. So it is precisely the question of whether you want to regulate this in the law and what its consequences are. Or do you say that if you regulate this in the law, it also has adverse effects. I'm not in favour of legalizing this. For example, this puts the owner's position at risk. Because of security, you don't want to make all that public. But if you're gonna put this in the law, you're gonna have to make it public. A second argument is the lead practice. Criteria for the designation would be introduced which are at odds with other issues. The designation of cultural objects is, after all, essential and irreplaceable for the Netherlands. I don't read that in here. The third argument is a state-of-the-art argument. We're working on a bill here. There's big consequences if you change the law. I also think you can achieve the same material through that register. Here too, I do not want to unnecessarily burden the organisations that should organise this with additional bureaucratic tasks. Everything that needs to be done in this area will no longer be devoted to effective exchange and transfer of knowledge between the parties concerned. I attach more importance to a programme like Interiors, which really achieves concrete results, than to the legal definition of these things.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u229	I cannot escape the impression that there are many arguments that ultimately it does not matter materially whether they are included in a motion or in an amendment, unless the Minister sees a motion as a lame excuse, on the basis of which a list is kept, but which has no value whatsoever. That makes me more suspicious of a motion than I have the willingness to make a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u230	Then I advise against the amendment. I don't see any bread in it to legally record this. I think that Mr Monasch is wrong about what he is trying to do. If it were to be incorporated into the law, it would only cover the protected cultural goods. If we make it a register, we can extend it a little bit. Then we can talk about ensembles which have a particular historical, cultural and social significance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u231	Why should they be protected in a register where there are no legal consequences?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u232	I am confident that this is adequately guaranteed through a register, given all the parties involved in cultural heritage in the Netherlands. I think it is more important that we share this with each other than that we lay down everything legally to the point, with all the consequences of that. Some of these consequences are also detrimental.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u233	I'm afraid I can't quite follow. The Minister makes a glowing plea for the inclusion of cases in a register. Mr Monasch wants to make this a little stronger in his amendment. Secondly, the amendment to item No. 20, which calls for recording in a register, in order to carefully record the relationship between monuments and the contents of the ensembles "S'. But then the Minister says that she sees three objections to this. I don't follow anymore. In the amendment to item No. 20 is merely said that if there is a link between exterior and interior immovable and movable property, then this must be recorded. The amendment allows the Minister to say, in particular cases, that this is so valuable that we must take protective measures. For the rest, the register is mainly at the service of the administrators. I am therefore surprised that the Minister has taken the amendment to item No. 20 says it's not good enough. I believe that the amendment does exactly what the Minister has done in connection with Amendment No 2. 19 Mr Monasch recommended. The amendment in part No. 20 is only an amendment and not a motion, but Mr Monasch has rightly said that an amendment, especially in this legislative process, is a little more powerful. I ask the Minister to look at it again from this point of view. I believe that this amendment responds to what the Minister himself is advocating.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u234	This amendment is also the subject of some of the objections I have raised to Mr Monasch. It really does matter whether the Chamber instructs me to create such a register, which is further free of form, or whether the Chamber instructs me to include everything in the law, for example all the security aspects that are attached to it. It means that information about the owner and the place of residence should be made public. They must then be visible in a National Monument Register. I don't think that's desirable. But there are so many amendments that I think it is desirable that after this debate I send the Chamber an overview of my reactions, including the more technical/legal details. They also apply to this amendment and to Mr Monasch's amendment. I will go into this in more detail in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u235	I believe that all Members of Parliament appreciate this, provided that it can be done well before the votes so that they can include it in their consideration.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u236	I would like to join in that. This is very much appreciated, but it is also a good thing that the Minister is reconsidering in that response, so that she can come to less trouble, and that she is thinking more from the point of view: how can it be interpreted that it is support for policy, of what the Heritage Act actually aims at? That looks a lot more comfortable. I agree with what colleagues have already said about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u237	I can wholeheartedly endorse that. For this interruption, let me take a look at my own amendment on city gardens, parks, gardens and landscapes around national monuments. I see in practice and hear from the field that city gardens in particular are not adequately protected. Fortunately, just before we started this debate, we were informed that the park at Huis Doorn is being renovated, but there are many parks that are neglected and not in the picture, especially the city gardens. The Minister supports that, too. She says: I'm going to start an investigation into the conservation of the green monuments. So I see a recognition of my concern, yet she says: let us not describe it in the law; that is superfluous.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u238	I can also say that I leave the judgment to the Chamber, but it remains superfluous, because it has no added value for the law in that sense. We're here discussing a law. We must do this carefully. Mrs. Dik can file this. In that sense, that is no harm either, but I will return in writing to the question of whether there is still a problem. But it should not be in this debate about whether or not I betray an amendment. It must be about what we want to achieve together for the cultural heritage in the Netherlands. We agree that we consider city parks to be important. I'm not gonna let that investigation go for nothing either. But it is now beginning to look as if it is only about whether or not amendments are discouraged, when I think we should talk about the intention. Then I come to the conclusion that it is unnecessary to change the law when it is intended to protect the city parks. But if Mrs Dik wants to give me again how important the city parks are, then that is possible. Then the question is whether it is best to do so by means of an amendment or by means of a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u239	The Minister has just indicated that he will come back to this in the written explanatory statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u240	I notice a little irritation with the Minister. That's not my intention. Nor will it be the Minister's intention to annoy me. Nor is it my intention to lead all of these amendments through the debate as a goal. My intention is to make the law careful, precisely because we want us to handle our heritage carefully. Since I am so fond of this care and our heritage, I have all tabled amendments this evening. We have to deal with this carefully. I just wanted to straighten that out. Furthermore, I await the Minister's written response.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u241	There is no doubt about that. I taste a great deal of love for cultural heritage among all Members. I'll share that with the Room. That's what got this law out of it. I would like to stress once again that this law is more than just merging existing laws. He also aims to protect cultural heritage even better with even more care. In general, this is already going very well in the Netherlands. From that situation, that's what I'm doing. I'd be happy to see where there are any improvements possible. That is why I have left a number of amendments to the House. Or I've asked to cast them in a different form, preferably in a motion. In my written reply, I will consider whether, apart from being able to vote in the form of a motion, I can leave the opinion to the Chamber if, following a change in an amendment, its intention is more precise.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u242	We're all working on this subject with great love. We can tell by the time. I would like to ask all the participants in the debate if they can try to be a little shorter. We also want to finish the second term tonight and otherwise it may be very late. The Minister continues with the "mobile heritage" block. I would once again suggest that she first responds to this point and that there should be any interruptions afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u243	Mobile heritage is of particular importance, as is all the other heritage. It knows a lot of fanciers. Mr Bishop referred to King's Day, on which we were able to see with each other what is going on over the water. Mr Pechtold referred to SAIL, which is also impressive every edition. Mobile heritage can be divided into four sectors: road, water, rail and air. They are all covered by mobile heritage, I say to Mrs Keijzer. It's a very small collection of one million pieces. In addition, road transport with 960,000 units is the largest category, followed remotely by 6,000 ships and 1,800 rail vehicles, and by historic aircraft. Most of them are privately owned. They are passionately maintained by these individuals. They often hang out in associations; everyone knows them. Mobile heritage can also be seen in public collections. Think of The Maritime Museum and the carriages of Palace Het Loo. There are also many museums, such as the DAF Museum and the Louwman Museum. In short, this is an important part of the cultural heritage. If I listen carefully to the Chamber, there is above all the concern that mobile heritage disappears abroad in private hands; I have heard the greatest concerns about this. It is thus extracted from the Dutch heritage. I understand that concern. At the same time, it is precisely in mobile heritage that it is important that international exchanges can take place. Think of oldtimers in which people sometimes want to take a ride across the border, with often international associations. It should also be noted that part of the Dutch heritage is thought of historic steamships from abroad. In order to prevent this important cultural heritage from crossing the border and disappearing abroad, I have the opportunity to designate moving heritage as a protected cultural heritage. I use that very reluctantly. On a case-by-case basis, a case-by-case assessment shall be made as to whether there are grounds for designation. Mrs Keijzer asked for that. So I say to her: yes, I can proceed with the designation of protected heritage, but the greatest restraint must be exercised. On the one hand, we want to preserve this heritage, of course. On the other hand, this entails a lot of burdens for the owners. They shall report each movement in writing to the Heritage Inspectorate. The cultural heritage should be kept available for controls. As Mrs Keijzer rightly said, I have to give permission to move abroad. That can usually be fast, but it can take up to six weeks. When the heritage is protected, it is true that you can't just cross the border for a ride to Antwerp or Düsseldorf, while you may have just made international agreements with your old-timer association. We want to prevent people from being hindered. So we want to protect as much as possible where it has to be and at the same time give space where it can be. I want to make sure I can give you a clue in special cases. Apart from that, I would particularly like to encourage a better view of the most valuable historical mobile collections for private property. The sector is in great need of a list of examples of mobile heritage that present a representative picture of the mobile heritage sector. This list is made up of objects that together represent a representative cross-section of the total valuable mobile heritage that individuals and organisations in the Netherlands aim to preserve. I agree with that need and I want to work for it. For example, I have already contributed to an inventory and the foundation Mobile Collection Nederland has developed the National Register Mobile Heritage. Furthermore, we have the Heritage Monitor and the Heritage Balance. The National Register Mobile Heritage gives a title for obtaining grants and loans. For conservation purposes, mobile heritage owners, such as trains, cars and aircraft, may use low-interest loans from the National Restoration Fund, whereby the Mondriaan Fund provides the substantive advice. There is still a special arrangement for the sailing heritage, together with the VSB Fund. Mr Pechtold asked: is our fleet threatened by laws and regulations and, if so, what does the Minister do about it? It also concerns the laws and regulations of adjacent departments. In 2010 we commissioned a study on the regulation of mobile heritage. It has emerged that regulations in the fields of the environment, the environment and security can have negative effects on the use of mobile heritage. There was discussion with the sector, so with all those associations of lovers I was talking about, that such developments can be reported to OCW and that the Ministry will then see if action is needed. I am happy, as I say to the others who have asked for it, to contact colleagues and play an initiativeful role in this. I would add that I do not always want to prevent other laws from playing a role. Perhaps I should remind the Chamber of Parliament of an example in Zwolle, although that was not a mobile heritage, but a monument. Firefighters died there because the monument was designed so that fire safety could no longer be secured. This also applies of course to an old boner with which you go up the Rhine with a large company. Then you also want to make sure that everything is going well. However, this must be done on a deliberate basis. That needs to be carefully weighed up. So I say that conservation of heritage must not be at the expense of human and animal safety, by the way. Within these limits, I would like to consider whether further action is needed after the study carried out in 2010.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u244	Can the Minister also comment on Mr Bishop's amendment to item No. 24? That fits in well with this block. Can it also indicate in which block it is proposing the amendment to item No. 12 to treat?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u245	The Bishop's amendment to point No. 24 is about the legal recognition of mobile heritage. It's all basically the same thing. I also believe that it is not necessary to include it in an amendment. Perhaps Mr Bishop can amend the amendment. It's the definition. In his explanatory statement, Mr Bishop wrote: "The absence of any form of recognition in practice does not at present provide sufficient recognition of the status of means of transport which are part of cultural heritage. This may, for example, make it more difficult to finance mobile heritage." In doing so, Mr Bishop wishes to point out that means of transport are explicitly regarded as cultural goods. If I understand correctly, that is already in the law and does not need to be explicitly stated in this way. This is the same as Mrs Dik's amendment on urban parks. It is not necessary, it is unnecessary, but bearing in mind the debate I have just had, I would like to see whether I can meet the author in this respect. Let me take a look at my people, because my explanations don't match the different numbers. I want a legal check first.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u246	I'll take a look at the interrupters. Mr Pechtold was the first, then Mr Van Dijk and then perhaps the Minister found the right explanation of Mr Bishop's amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u247	Just to make sure. I am very pleased that the Minister considers himself in the direction of her colleagues and the regulations from other ministries to be a guardian of what we are discussing here today. I'm comparing it to Monument Care. Monument care speaks of an original marble floor with a beautiful threshold. Arbo says, however, that you slip there, after which a less valid states that the threshold should actually be removed. There are a lot of views, but I hear the Minister say clearly that it is very important that she sees a role for herself in defending the heritage in conflicting interests of this kind. I understand her disclaimer when it comes to safety and that kind of thing. A slightly more active role in this process, but perhaps we can hear even more about what it means for the other departments and their wishes, but I think that is very important. However, I do see this as an important concession from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u248	Thank you. Then we agree, with the remark that it must always be a consideration, but then it is a deliberate consideration.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u249	That's good to hear. The point is that many mobile heritage owners are looking for recognition. This morning's paper in the Volkskrant showed that there are many obstacles and that, for example, sailing heritage must meet modern requirements, but they are actually unfeasible. I would like the Minister to take on a coordinating role in the government in such cases and actively look for ways to preserve mobile heritage and, if he so wishes, plead for a derogation if laws are clearly unreasonably drafted. Is the Minister willing to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u250	I feel more at home with Mr Pechtold's wording. I would be happy to discuss a problem with my colleagues. I would also like to take an active part in this, but I do not feel for a major coordinating task if there is a problem. We have very active associations in the mobile heritage. They can come forward and report if there is a problem. I then make a balance between the interests of preserving heritage and other social interests. They're big, too, I'm just gonna say again. I would also be called to the Chamber if a boat were not safe for passengers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u251	In the sense that we are now talking to the Minister for Culture and not to the Minister for Security or other matters, for example the Environment. Here is the Minister for Culture, and we are happy to hear her say that she stands up for the heritage aspect of these matters. The Minister is making a concession, she is taking a step in the direction I would like to see the Minister take, but it is not quite up to my liking. That's why I'll file a motion. Then we will see what the Chamber thinks about giving the Minister a slightly stronger role in the protection of mobile heritage.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u252	We look forward to that wording in the second term. Now, Mrs. Keijzer. Then the Minister will have time to explain Mr Bishop's amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u253	Yeah, I've got that in the meantime. Now I know where the misunderstanding was.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u254	Thank you, Mr President. I actually agree with what Mr Van Dijk says. Mr Pechtold just said "well then we agree," but then I think to myself: what good is the Dutch Mobile Collection Foundation going to do with this? Here's a list of bottlenecks. There are very concrete examples of the regulation that is being devised in other ministries, which is then frantic for the sailing heritage. Let's see if we can make a motion on that. It just floats me too much. We'll get a second term in a minute; we'll see how we formulate it. I really want a little more from the Minister than just 'yes, I see it', because then so little happens. Soon we'll have the Environment Act. In it, a ship becomes a structure. If all the requirements of the Building Decree are going to apply to these historic ships, then stop. That will be the end of this cultural heritage.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u255	That seems to me to be more of a communication than a specific question to the Minister. If she wants to respond to that, she can.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u256	I think I made a very clear commitment. Of course, I'm here as Minister of Culture. But I also say to Mr Van Dijk: the government speaks with one voice. We have a broader responsibility than culture. But, of course, from my responsibility for cultural heritage, I would very much like to engage in the conversation with my colleagues. I don't need a motion for that at all. Of course, I'll put the cultural heritage first. But my colleagues will perhaps say: you have to be careful that it does not represent an unexpected danger to people. That is something we must consider. I say to Mrs Keijzer: we have the National Register of Mobile Heritage. This is an important commitment of the sector. More needs to be done than just putting that register in order. We must also consider the visibility of the mobile heritage sector, the preservation of knowledge and expertise, legal support and financial support. These are all themes that play a role in this. I maintain close contact with all involved. The same applies to Mr Bishop's amendment as to Mrs Dik-Faber's amendment, namely that it is legally unnecessary to include the addition of a'vehicle'. In the definition of cultural goods, it has already been decided that means of transport may be included. If the Chamber is keen to include this, I will look at whether the term means of transport would be difficult to include when replying to the amendment in writing. It is not legally necessary to give the means of transport the protection it already has, but I have listened carefully to what you have just said. I am going to look at it from a different angle, namely: is it difficult to include "transport means" in the law? I have to take a legal look at that, so I will return to that in the written reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u257	We await the answer to that. Does Mr Bishop have a brief addition to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u258	I would like to thank the Minister for this. The amendment has been tabled because we are getting signals that this does lead to uncertainty or financing problems. If you can prevent that by naming it as such in the law or in the explanatory statement, that is indeed to deal with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u259	We have already appointed it here, because this too is part of the legal history.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u260	That's right, at least we got that straight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u261	We're moving on. I think we've arrived at the "monuments" block. I would ask the Minister to deal first with the whole block, including any amendments. Then we go to the interruptions, if there are any.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u262	For the sake of clarity, I shall begin with the Monasch amendment to item No. 18 on the standard laid down that the owner has a duty to maintain the monument in such a way as to ensure conservation. I understand the intention of the amendment, and I also understand that it is in fact in line with the case law that has already taken shape in recent years. It is a question of preventing the active and passive neglect of national monuments. I am therefore actually reading this amendment as a codification of the existing possibilities. Now, however, I think it is important that owners' obligations to comply with the conservation obligation should be proportionate and maintained in this way. So it should not be so that the municipality is on the sidewalk in the absence of every lick of paint. Nor is it intended that the municipality should wait until the moment when conservation can only be achieved with a comprehensive restoration. With that comment I am prepared to leave the opinion on this amendment to the Chamber. Mr Bishop asked about the definition of normal maintenance and why that definition was not used. She does appear in grant schemes under the Monuments Act. She has now been incorporated into the Heritage Act to provide a basis for granting subsidies for maintenance to the owners of state monuments. Grant for normal maintenance should be set against grant for restoration. For normal maintenance there is a structural subsidy, and for restoration the funds have been transferred to the province. Mr Pechtold asked about the national monuments at an embassy or consulate. I don't have any data on that. Information happens there just like other owners. Here too, both the municipality and the RCE have information available to new owners and can also appeal to them if things don't happen according to the rules. This was the case, among other things, at the Angolan Embassy. Mrs Keijzer and Mr Van Dijk asked about the appointment of national monuments after 1965. There is a lot going on in that, and in my opinion a lot of appealing things are happening. We have recently implemented two designation programmes for reconstruction under the responsibility of the Cultural Heritage Agency, with many appealing monuments such as the Evoluon, the station in Vlissingen and the Zeeland Bridge. Last year I also presented an archeological display program at the Castle of Leiden, and we are working on the New Dutch Waterline. So new programmes are being announced and recent monuments from post-war history are being identified, such as the whole series that we announced to the Evoluon one and a half or two years ago. In addition, I am prepared to ask the RCE to carry out an exploration of the military heritage and heritage after 1965. Those reconnaissances will then be conducted in conjunction with the field. The opinions of the Culture Council will, of course, be involved. Mrs. Keijzer asked about the Brim. This month, the Chamber receives an extensive analysis from the Brim. That analysis involves the Federation Conservation Monuments. There are currently ten professional monument conservation organisations. I will inform the Chamber in the letter that it will shortly receive about the budget seizure of these organizations. As far as I know, Castle Middden has recently received a large subsidy from the Brim. However, I would be happy to comment on that in the letter I just mentioned. Then I'll go into the earthquakes in Groningen. The Cultural Heritage Agency is very closely involved. As the Chamber knows, a government service in Groningen has been set up. The investigation is being carried out by this public service. The province and my department, including the RCE, are deeply involved in this. There's another meeting next week. The Cultural Heritage Agency has even started a programme of earthquakes, so that we can mobilise and deploy the knowledge for Groningen as best we can. I am also saying this to Mr Van Veen. Of course it is very difficult for residents of a monument, with all the care they already have about earthquakes, to have to maintain a monumental status. We are all trying to do this as carefully as possible. We are trying to ensure that the value of a building in permit procedures or other time-consuming aspects does not deteriorate further. Therefore, the RCE gives priority to referrals from Groningen. Ms Keijzer asked about the delays with the RCE in improving the Register of Monuments. Is it gonna be overtaken in the short term? The Register of Monuments needs to be improved in two respects. Firstly, identification: what is protected and what size needs improvement? Secondly, it concerns the opening up of knowledge data through the introduction of a new knowledge system. That's what we're doing. What we are not doing is focusing on a large-scale adjustment of the so-called reasoning definitions, because that is 60,000, and that is just a job that cannot be done. What we are committed to is the opening up of knowledge about monuments that can be used by owners and licence providers. I come to the volunteers, which Mrs Keijzer has addressed. Let me say first of all that I agree with her that the role of volunteers in monuments is extremely important. Mr Van Veen already referred to the Open Monument Day and the Restoration Fair, in which, apart from professionals, many volunteers are involved. I appreciate that, but I have noticed that the proposal of the Federation Conservation Monuments to capitalize the maintenance work of volunteers is not feasible and is extremely susceptible to fraud. We really should not want to introduce arrangements here with each other that can cause so much fraud that we can regret it later, however sympathetic they may be in themselves. I am sorry, but I have not yet seen any suggestion that this test of criticism can pass. We have already discussed this very extensively with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u263	I see Mrs Keijzer wants to interrupt, but I want the interruptions at the end of the block.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u264	This was the end of the block.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u265	Mr Monasch came forward first.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u266	I have an explanatory question. The Minister refers to a letter we receive about the Brim. Is this related to the motion of VVD and Labour Party asking whether it is still possible to finance the maintenance of large churches and castles? They ask a lot and always feel that they are at the back and never get their turn. Is it about that letter and, if so, can we get it as soon as possible? The agreement was that we would have it by the end of May. I would very much like to deal with the letter before the summer recess in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u267	The answer to the first question is yes. Yes, it's about that letter. I am trying to send him as soon as possible and I suggest that I let the committee clerk know when he is coming, so that a meeting may be scheduled before the summer. Then we can already imagine how much time the Chamber wants to have between receiving the letter and conducting the general consultation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u268	In the second period, there may be a further explanation of the date of publication of the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u269	Maybe.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u270	I regret, however, that the Minister is not prepared to consider how to include the hours of volunteers in the maintenance costs paid by organisations themselves. There are two possibilities, which are mentioned in a letter from a long time ago, namely 17 June 2013. One possibility is simply a flat-rate contribution; how simple can you get it? You can choose to do so with the large monuments owned, for example, by legal entities or foundations. Think of something creative. The other option is referred to in the letter as a simple and workable model. The FIM has pointed out that you can put a calculation on that. And yet the Minister says, "I don't want it." Have we seen together what all these volunteers are doing in maintaining all these buildings, of all those churches, of all those houses owned by organizations, of monuments other than residential houses? These can be maintained because a lot of volunteers are committed to it with soul and salvation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u271	The point is clear, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u272	No, the point isn't clear. I myself know a number of church buildings in Monnickendam. Mr President, I know I am making a long point. However, you have been generous to others this evening, so I think that is true of this subject too. I've been alderman in Monnickendam myself for years. There are some beautiful church buildings. The communities underneath are getting smaller and smaller. However, they are beacons in the city and beacons in the landscape. The only way to maintain these kinds of buildings is by making a movement towards the volunteers. I therefore ask you once again: will the Minister promise me to look again at how we can give volunteers a role in the maintenance of these buildings, not only through blood, sweat and tears, but also financially?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u273	We are having this discussion for the umpteenth time. We share the appreciation for volunteers. We shouldn't want a competition in who attaches the most importance to it. We all know that volunteers are of the utmost importance for the preservation of monuments. The question is, however, how do you intend to shape this. I must warn you of a form that is susceptible to fraud. I do not think it is wise to follow the proposal of the Federation Conservation Monuments. The flat-rate regulation also has a number of disadvantages, because it is unfocused. I am always prepared to consider other proposals. However, I have weighed it very carefully at the time and I cannot think of a good way. However, I very, very much appreciate the role of volunteers in the preservation of monuments.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u274	The Federation Conservation Monuments has made two proposals. There are disadvantages to the flat-rate proposal. The FIM has also said that you can fictitiously allocate 10% of the total construction costs to volunteers. It's all possible. If there are objections to this, why does the Minister not want to look creatively at how to deal with these objections? Of course, we all appreciate volunteers. That's not what this is about. This is about the possibility of giving financial space, so that many monuments and beautiful buildings in our cities and villages that are maintained by volunteers can be maintained. The situation is getting worse every day.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u275	If I can think of a better solution for bringing volunteers with me financially, I would very much like to do so. My mind doesn't stand still, so if I think of anything, I'll let you know. If you have any other suggestions for it, I'd like to hear them, too. However, we should not repeat a discussion that we had with each other a year ago and six months ago. That doesn't get us anywhere. Nor do I want to be responsible for regulations that we regret because they are fraud-prone and therefore risk actually promoting fraud.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u276	Very briefly, Mrs Keijzer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u277	It stings me anyway. I would like to extend my warmest thanks to my fellow Members for the adoption of amendments, but there are a number of amendments here this evening with points that are already covered by the law. There is even an amendment here which includes the obligation to conserve. This is a discussion that has been under the Monument Law for years and is extremely complex. The Minister does not hesitate to add rules to that. But on this subject, which is about the preservation of the most beautiful buildings in this country by volunteers, she says she can't think of anything anymore. I do not think that is enough, and I will therefore table a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u278	We'll see it in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u279	Can I say that I very much hope that this motion will give an explanation of where we can find that solution? It is technically very complicated to do this in a good way, namely financially sound and not susceptible to fraud. If Mrs Keijzer has that solution, I am very happy to look into it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u280	I'll be brief. Maybe we can stop a motion. The Minister addressed my questions and comments on the earthquake area in Groningen and the role of the RCE in it. I'd like to go a little further. I would like to ask the Minister for a commitment as to when the talk turns into action. It's a good thing we're gonna be holding our finger on the wrist for the next few months, all that talking. I would like to have the undertaking that the Minister will inform the Chamber before the autumn recess of the concrete results of the special position of the national monuments in the Groningen earthquake zone.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u281	That's what I'm telling you. I'm going to do my utmost to make sure that the Chamber gets that information in time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u282	I would like to make a very brief comment. During the debate with Minister Kamp on the consequences of gas extraction, a motion of the Christian Union was also adopted on the restoration of monuments. Perhaps it is a good thing that this minister's ministry is in contact with the Ministry of EZ, so that there can be one letter, telling us exactly what the state of affairs is.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u283	I'd love to. As I said earlier, I believe that one Public Service Groningen has also been created. My department is actively involved in this. The RCE is also strongly involved in this. This service is coordinated by EZ. I myself have regular contact with the colleague of EZ on this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u284	Then we go to the last block, I think: international, archaeology and a number of separate questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u285	I'll try to do that very quickly. Mr Pechtold asked how we deal with the prevention of trade in heritage from Iraq and Syria. We do this through UNESCO and through the UN. There are a number of resolutions to that effect. We also have a system of sanctions in the EU. These include the customs, the Heritage Inspectorate and the police, who are working on this. Recently, I also discussed with the Director-General of UNESCO how in the Netherlands the Heritage Inspection and Customs can work together and provide training to identify objects. Moreover, in the Netherlands, we have recently organized a special course on heritage conservation, in consultation with UNESCO and a number of other organisations, in order to protect heritage in complex and difficult conflicts and other situations. Among others, there were people from Syria and Nepal, who also need very much to share that knowledge at a high level. Mr Van Veen also asked a question about the VOC archives in Indonesia and India. First of all, let me stress that I attach great importance to the VOC archives. However, I do not see any reason to accept these archives. They are not only Dutch heritage, but also shared heritage, not only shared with Indonesia, but also with many other countries with which the VOC maintained relations. My obligation to accept cultural goods or collections of particular cultural historical or scientific significance which are irreplaceable, affect Dutch cultural property and threaten to become orphaned. Whoever owns these cultural goods is not really relevant. I cannot therefore see in advance what the national interest is when important cultural goods are likely to become orphaned, but as soon as the VOC archives become orphaned and the other requirements in terms of content and transfer are met, they are legally subject to my acceptance obligation. What applies to Indonesia also applies to India. The archive that Mr Van Veen spoke of has a great historical value, whatever you may think of colonialism. With the painful aspects that are attached to it, it forms part of our Dutch history. The amendment in part No. 12, by Mr Van Veen, with the aim of deprecating that obligation of acceptance, I do not recommend as it has been formulated, with the argument as I have just given it. I can imagine adding to the amendment that it is quite clear that these must be orphan cultural goods. That is not so clear now in the explanatory statement of the amendment and it is therefore a question of whether the Netherlands is the one who is involved in this or whether it would be more logical for other countries to do so. With the present explanatory statement, I advise against the amendment, because there may be misunderstandings about it. I could leave the judgment to the Chamber with an explicit addition which is meant to mean'orphaned cultural goods'.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u286	For speed: I will amend the explanatory statement accordingly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u287	The amendment in part No. 12 is adjusted.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u288	Then I'll join archaeology. Mr Van Dijk asked about the ratification of the Water Treaty. Preparations are being made for this. The significance of the Treaty for the Netherlands and the Caribbean is being examined. You know that we in the Netherlands have a strict procedure for ratification. Once it has been completed, it is possible to decide on accession. After this summer, I expect to be able to submit the conclusions to you in consultation with the Foreign Ministers. Mr Van Dijk also asked about the national direction at excavation in the case of Dalfsen. The primary responsibility for good management lies with the municipality, also for its heritage. That doesn't change as a result of the Heritage Act. In order to carry out this task, the municipality itself can acquire archaeological knowledge or use expertise. One can also call on the RCE. This also applies to the fact that municipalities find the way to the RCE well. Mr Van Dijk also asked about the Archaeological Working Community for the Netherlands and whether the damage to the soil archive is always definitive. The municipalities are responsible for the archeological system. The evaluation shows that the municipalities handle this task well and that a lot of expertise has been built up. For this too, there is a lot of sharing with the RCE. Mr Van Veen asked about the digital heritage, in particular commercial broadcasting. We have taken the initiative, also in response to your colleague Arno Rutte's arguments, to look closely at the digital heritage. That is very important, because we now also have 'digital born' heritage. There is no specific protection regime for this. The Royal Library took the initiative a few years ago to collect websites that are important for Dutch language, culture and society. On the basis of the Media Act 2008, the Netherlands Institute for Sound and Vision has the task of taking care of the audiovisual archive of public broadcasting. The management of the moving image of commercial broadcasting is the responsibility of commercial broadcasting itself. Finally, the indemnity regime. The SP has asked if it can't go up. No, I've informed you about that before. The scheme had a ceiling and that provision was maintained. This is special in itself because the Empire is bringing back all the guarantee provisions. I am very glad that we have been able to hold the ceiling. I am currently working on new agreements on the implementation of the scheme. Hopefully there is still something to improve, so that at least the warranty space can be used optimally. Mr. Chairman. I hope that I have responded to most of the questions put by the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u289	I'm missing two things. One concerns the problems of showing heritage. I mentioned the example of the Leidsch Dagblad, where it went wrong. Is it not wise to include a hook in the Heritage Act, so that you can agree on further rules, which means that showing heritage is not only about what you show indoors, but also online? Maybe I missed it, but I didn't hear what the Minister thought of my comments on the total ban on excavation. Does that apply to everyone? Is that wisdom? Shouldn't you settle that better in the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u290	Let me come back to these two questions in the second time, for the sake of shortness.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u291	I see that Mrs Keijzer agrees. Very nice! We are moving on to the second term, for which you all have a third of your speaking time. However, I see that Mr Van Dijk still has an afterburner in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u292	If you'll allow me, Mr. Chairman, because that could save us a motion. The Minister replied to this question, but I would ask her to answer it clearly. I had asked questions about young heritage. Is the Minister prepared to better protect the heritage of the years 45-65 of the last century by launching a new designation programme for that period and to protect a group of important objects by category? She said something about it, but the period was not entirely with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u293	We just had, one or two years ago, a whole lead program in which we identified buildings, including the Evoluon. The Zeeland Bridge is also included. So we have already done that. I do not think it would be useful to start a new programme a year later. We have just tried to incorporate different styles and different special buildings from that period. I have also said that I am even prepared to develop a programme for the period after that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u294	That was exactly why I asked the question. It saves us a motion, but for all clarity: it is the period 45-65?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u295	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u296	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u297	Thank you very much for this clarity. We're moving on to the second term. We have had a very extensive first time with extensive interruptions, so I hope we can do the second time quickly. In replying to the Minister, I will allow only clarifying questions on one's own motions. We have exchanged enough of the rest.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u298	Mr. Chairman. The message is clearly understood. I'll try to keep it short. After all, it's already midnight. I am particularly sorry that the Minister is not recommending my amendments on the municipal and provincial heritage regulations. Arguments were exchanged on administrative autonomy, on the concerns of the VNG and the IPO and on bureaucracy. Isn't the Netherlands going to be one big national museum? To be honest, I do not think that these arguments are relevant. We had a detailed exchange of views on this subject. My intention is not bureaucracy; my intention is care and protection of cultural heritage. I will therefore certainly maintain those amendments, and I hope that they will be supported by colleagues in the Chamber. I refer to other legislation in which the government explicitly instructs municipalities, with certain frameworks within which they can start implementing themselves. That is what I was trying to do with my amendments to the Nos. 9 and 10. What is the amendment in part No. 11, I think I have sufficiently explained that there is no distinction in our national heritage between local and regional. I see I have limited time, so I'm moving on to the register for interiors. The Minister did not convince me why it could be a register and why we could not then include it in the law. I refer to the alarm clocks that go off at Museum Catharijneconvent and other organisations that deal with cultural heritage and the concerns surrounding ensembles. I will be happy to support the amendment and perhaps co-sign it. I would table a motion on the mobile heritage, but the Labour Party will do so partly on behalf of the Christian Union. I can refer to that. I miss the element of beauty in the Heritage Act. I find the definitions of when we preserve heritage very functional. I therefore have an amendment in preparation which amends the definition of irreplaceable in Article 3.7 (4) (a). It will then read: "unreplaceable if it is of general interest for its exceptional beauty or if there is no other or similar cultural goods in good condition in the Netherlands." So that amendment is on its way. I'd like to file one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the LAMO is often used as a professional standard in selecting and disposing of objects from museum collections;]] [[Whereas the LAMO is not always fully applied to the disposal of objects, so that museums are not always given the opportunity to purchase a work or proceeds are not always spent on the preservation and development of collections;]] [[calls on the government, at AMvB, to lay down detailed rules for the disposal of museum objects,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34109-26]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u299	Mr. Chairman. My main starting point in this debate is that our heritage must be handled carefully. What we mean by heritage and how we value something changes over time. Vincent van Gogh had to be maintained by his brother because he never sold a painting. Now the Van Gogh Museum alone attracts 1.5 million visitors every year. It is precisely because of this dependence on the spirit of time that any consideration of whether or not we should preserve something must be taken carefully. I am glad that the Minister has made a number of promises on this point. She indicated that she attached great importance to social debate. I can agree with that. As far as I am concerned, a public register in which everyone can respond in a well-founded manner to a proposal for alienation contributes to this. I assume that we can come up with an amendment on this point which does not lead to a lot of additional procedures, but it does, that is, the aim of greater transparency. I would like to stress once again that it is allowed to de-collect. But that must be motivated and done openly. The Minister agrees that it doesn't matter who owns the art. Does the Empire possess the power, or a waterboard, or a university? The fact that she supports that does justice to the art we want to protect. The fact that the Minister was also so athletic in calling my amendment to set a period between the decision of alienation and the alienation itself, as'sympathetic', makes it almost possible for me to conclude the evening that started a bit harshly. I do not do that until I stress that I have agreed with the Minister that this law is not an end point, but also a step in the direction of future thinking. In its first term, the Minister has not yet addressed my question of how she looks at these concepts of 'unreplaceable' and 'unmissable'. I am considering reconsidering a term such as "significant value." I noticed that Mrs Dik-Faber is already looking for that. Because, yes, is a Rembrandt irreplaceable and indispensable? Even on this point, in some cases, I dare to enter into the discussion. A Rembrandt like this came on the market today. It's a portrait of Catrina Hoogsaet. Minister Plasterk didn't want her. She's from England. Maybe we can buy her. Is that the top of the Rembrandts in the Netherlands? I wonder. Also with a portrait of Rembrandt you can have a discussion about this. The term "significant value" would cover that portrait. All of that for the sake of ownership. I would also like to hear a little more from the Minister in her second term. I don't see the government, or anyone else, as an owner. In a way, I do not see a private individual in the extreme as an owner when it comes to heritage. You pass on heritage. I thought the description of the SGP in terms of DNA was actually a very nice one. It's nice that the SGP even wants to think along in terms of DNA. That might give some room for discussion in the medical-ethical debates we are having. I'd like to hear more about that term "owner." For example, we have gone so far as to ask whether an owner can be cremated with it. A government can pass on heritage. There is often no alternative other than the government to donate heritage or whatever. I would also like to hear from the Minister about this. I'm very concerned about the knowledge and skills. I have spoken about universities where professors of arts and crafts are no longer followed and about museums where the curators are only dealing with blockbusters. I'd like to know what happened to the knowledge and skill in our heritage country. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that museums employ fewer and fewer conservators;]] [[noting that this removes knowledge and skills about the collection and reduces scientific research;]] [[considers that the collections are insufficient;]] [[calls on the government to take stock of how museums have cut "knowledge and skills" and how scientific research into collections has developed over the past ten years, and to return to the budget,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Pechtold. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34109-27]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u300	Mr Bishop has informed us that he has had to leave the debate. There's a lot of listening from the employees.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u301	Mr. Chairman. I have difficulty with the fact that my input in the first period has not yet led to a reply from the Minister. I talked about the fact that the municipality of Leiden has recently been legally blocked on the digitalized archive of the Leidsch Dagblad. I ask the Minister whether it is not wise to include in the law an article which states that an AMvB should regulate how the interests of copyright versus digital display of heritage can be balanced, which is quite natural at this time. The Minister has promised in a letter to deal in detail with all the amendments. I should like to receive a detailed explanation of the amendment to item No. 18. That amendment makes the law on conservation mandatory. I think it is not without reason that this is still not settled, because there are a lot of hooks and eyes on it. Although I understand the feeling that lies under the amendment, namely to do something about monuments that we are slowly seeing collapse, I wonder if this is the best way forward. I'd like to hear that from the Minister. Mr President, I think the clock is moving too fast. I think I've got 10 minutes, but now eight of them are gone.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u302	You have a third of the speaking time. That applies to all speakers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u303	In my case, that's 10 minutes. Next, a comment on the obligation of acceptance laid down in the law. Anyone who wants to lose heritage, even if it has not yet been designated as a heritage, can put it on the doorstep of the Ministry. I asked the Minister to look again at that provision and to include something of a ground for refusal, because in that case the costs are also for the Ministry. I really want to receive an answer to that, otherwise I still have to prepare an amendment on this point. Nor have I received any answers to my rather fundamental questions about amateur archaeology. I would like to hear from the Minister what she thinks, because I am already preparing an amendment on this point. I'm filing four motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that the coherence of ensembles, in which movable and immovable heritage form an integral part, is of great importance;]] [[noting that the Erfgoedwet ensembles do not have separate protection;]] [[considers that some municipalities such as The Hague and Elburg at local level offer adequate protection to valuable ensembles by means of monument regulations;]] [[calls on the Government to select and designate in its entirety a top list of valuable ensembles of buildings with associated interiors,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Keijzer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34109-28]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u304	Then I have another motion on mobile heritage. I have just heard that other political groups, too, I believe that the Christian Union and the PvdA have tabled a motion on this point, so perhaps we can merge the motions. My motion was co-signed by Jasper van Dijk of the SP Group. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the aim of the Heritage Act is to ensure the full protection of cultural heritage;]] [[believes that it is very important to protect also flying, sailing and moving heritage;]] [[noting that mobile heritage owners face multiple legal and regulatory bottlenecks;]] [[calls on the government to recognise the mobile heritage as a full facet of our cultural heritage;]] [[calls on the Government to identify inter-departmental bottlenecks in laws and regulations for mobile heritage owners, together with the sector to resolve these bottlenecks and inform the Court of Justice by the end of 2015 at the latest,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Keijzer and Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34109-29]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u305	The third motion is about post-war heritage. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government has pursued a very restrictive policy in recent years for the protection of post-war buildings;]] [[noting that many special post-war buildings are in the danger zone due to lack of protection or have already disappeared;]] [[Considering that in its opinion of 4 July 2013 the Culture Council indicated that there was no directional vision for both 1945-1958 and 1959-1965 and called for a broader designation of areas and buildings;]] [[calls on the government to be more ambitious in the designation of post-war heritage by protecting a group of important objects per category each year as a national monument;]] [[calls on the Government to develop a comprehensive vision on the conservation and protection of post-war heritage and to inform the Court of Justice of this before the end of 2015,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Keijzer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34109-30]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u306	The fourth motion is about volunteering at the Brim. I already announced her. Here she comes. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that many monuments are managed and maintained by volunteers;]] [[noting that these organisations often struggle to generate a lot of their own income and manage to maintain the monument solely thanks to the use of volunteers;]] [[noting that these organisations are often unable to raise 50% of the eligible costs when applying for a Brim grant;]] [[considers that voluntary engagement in institutions to be subsidised is to be welcomed;]] [[noting that the government has indicated that it is legally possible to include volunteering in its own income;]] [[calls on the government to adapt the Brim in such a way as to include volunteering in its own income,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Keijzer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34109-31]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u307	I would like to draw attention once again to the amendment on item No. 5, which has now been co-signed by the SP, D66 and Christian Union groups. We are constantly talking about involving citizens in heritage policy. It is a nice conclusion if at the end of everything there is still an opportunity to object and appeal. I think it is an eternal shame that the Minister has not embraced this amendment this evening. There's gonna be another letter. Perhaps she will come to her senses. I'm gonna close with what I started. Culture gives shine to objects, people and ideas by placing them in isolation or in a different light. Heritage is one of the most visible forms of culture in our environment. It was very worthwhile to debate this tonight. I'm hoping for answers that will help me move on. I understand that there are at least two amendments from me above the market and one from the Christian Union. So I wonder if we can vote immediately on Tuesday. You're shaking no, Mr. Chairman, so I don't have to worry about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u308	I'll make a proposal on that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u309	Mr. Chairman. I said it in the first term and I maintain it: the law contains a number of good points, but here and there the minister could take a little more direction. You can see that on a number of points. First of all, it does not want any legal remedy for the sale of heritage. That's too bad. The Keijzer amendment to item No. 5 I will support. And what about the water boards and universities? They remain outside the expert advice. That's too bad. What about the proceeds from the sale? My amendment to item No. 23 says it has to go to management and conservation, exactly in line with the Museums Directive. The Minister won't do it. She thinks it's a matter of the municipalities. But we want to prevent municipalities from selling art to meet financial needs. That's not the point. Archaeology is the same issue. There are too few guarantees that each municipality will take up archaeological research carefully. I shall therefore table the next motion for a resolution. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas small municipalities do not always have the means to manage large archaeological finds carefully;]] [[calls on the government, in the case of large archaeological finds, to take charge of the country,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34109-32]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u310	I have already said that I would table a motion on the mobile heritage, including the sailing heritage. It's like this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting the need for regular adjustments to historical means of transport (mobile heritage) in order to comply with environmental, working conditions or safety laws and regulations;]] [[Whereas these laws have initially been drawn up for modern means of transport;]] [[Whereas many mobile heritage owners are unable or hardly able to comply with all these laws, with the result that historical means of transport are sometimes sold abroad;]] [[calls on the Government to stand up for the Dutch mobile heritage and to allow the Minister of OCW to coordinate to defend the interests of the mobile heritage on a structural basis with other ministries, to proactively look for ways to preserve mobile heritage and also to argue for exceptions in the event that laws are manifestly unreasonable for mobile heritage,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Jasper van Dijk and Mr Monasch. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34109-33]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u311	I asked about library collections. Can a protocol be drawn up for this? The Minister is looking at an update of the regime for indemnity. When will the Chamber be informed of this? Finally, I can only say that in the new First Chamber, which has been installed this week, it is getting really exciting whether this law is going to make it at all. I am counting on the Minister's constructive attitude to our proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u312	Mr. Chairman. The VVD wants a good law. That is why it has tabled amendments to parts of the report. Not because we want more government interference, but less. I note that a number of groups do not trust local leaders and politicians when it comes to heritage. As far as I am concerned, there are two debates that are mixed up. On the one hand about the position of works of art given to municipalities without any conditions attached. On the other hand about cultural goods that are already in the possession of municipalities and, for example, water boards. The Minister makes it unnecessarily difficult for himself to draw on a very great responsibility. I asked the Minister in the debate whether she could ultimately make sure that all the possible sales were controlled. I also wonder whether all the amendments that have now been tabled, on which the Minister has indicated that she will return to them in writing, will ultimately improve the law. I have my doubts about that. So I am very curious to see what that overview looks like. Maybe we should reconsider what the State Council thinks about that. At least we have a lot of confidence in people who possess culture. In that respect, there is indeed ownership. The VVD doesn't feel much for putting up all kinds of registers, as I heard come along. I ask the Minister to be cautious about this, because it only leads to administrative burdens. I will not table a motion on the situation in Groningen because I have already made a commitment on this and I am very much looking forward to the votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u313	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister and her support for the comprehensive response. I await the written explanation of a number of amendments. I note not only that the SGP talks about DNA, but also that Mr Pechtold, in the context of art, no longer talks about ownership but about management. With that, I think he has almost taken over the stewardship of the CDA. There are wonderful things going on in this country's political cultural heritage, but that is only beautiful. I'd still like to file one motion. I can well imagine that my colleague from the VVD points out that registers should be handled with caution, but at the same time it is the owners of the mobile heritage who are asking for them. I cannot say that, when I saw the Volkskrant this morning, I was convinced of the enormous value of the boats that were photographed; I had chosen some nicer myself. These boats did not seem to me to be the greatest loss for the Netherlands, but there is a lot of beautiful material going and driving here that needs protection. That's also a call we hear from owners. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that our country has a great deal of mobile heritage in the form of historically valuable sailing, transport and aircraft which are often still in use;]] [[Whereas this mobile heritage tells a living history;]] [[noting that the Netherlands Mobile Collection Foundation manages a mobile heritage register which is not yet complete;]] [[noting that the impact of new regulations on the possession and maintenance of mobile heritage is not always deliberately weighed;]] [[Calls on the Government to support the updating, extension and digital opening of the Mobile Heritage Register by providing the Cultural Heritage Agency with a list of mobile heritage displays to be presented within one year;]] [[Invites the Minister of OCW to actively bring regulatory bottlenecks that hamper the possession and maintenance of mobile heritage to the attention of its colleagues, to promote the future consideration of the interests of mobile heritage owners in cabinet decisions and to report to the Chamber before 1 January 2016,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Monasch and Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34109-34]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u314	I'll resume the meeting. I call the Minister for the second time. I agree with Members that they only interfere on their own points.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u315	Mr. Chairman. I shall end with the contributions of the various Members. I shall begin with Mrs Dik-Faber's. She has tabled another amendment to item No. 25. That is about the beauty of culture. I welcome this amendment. Mr Pechtold wanted another debate on the concepts of 'unreplaceable' and 'unmissable', but I propose that this be retained until we take the next step. I thought right away, I think every Rembrandt is irreplaceable. So with those two concepts you already have a lot to deal with, but I get the feeling that beauty has to play a role. I am inclined to leave the opinion on the amendment to the Chamber, but I shall return to it in writing, because I would first like to see whether there is a foot-and-mouth attached to it. I don't expect that, by the way. I see Mrs. Dik-Faber nodding. She doesn't expect that either. I come to Mrs Dik-Faber's motion on the LAMO. It calls on the government to lay down detailed rules for the disposal of museum objects at AMvB. I'm deceiving that motion. LAMO is a well-functioning guide to self-regulation. We have regulated the disposal of museum objects in the law itself, with a careful procedure which we have discussed extensively. It seems to me appropriate to leave the self-regulation where it is taking place. I agree with Mr Pechtold that it is not an end point but a starting point. I'm sure we'll talk about it later. I agree with Mr Bishop's critique of cultural heritage as DNA and that we must play an important role in this because we must protect it. That will appeal to Mr Bishop. That gives us a great responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u316	Mrs Dik-Faber has another question about her motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u317	That's right. We have the VNG guidelines and the LAMO. My group, too, is in favour of the fact that, when you do not have to regulate it legally, you should not do so either, and that you can do so by means of directives. In practice, however, things slip through. We have been looking for an opportunity for the Minister to intervene. It may also be a possibility, because it is not certain that it will happen if things go wrong by laying down detailed rules. We've been thinking about an AMvB that can be hung under the law. This will give the Minister the opportunity to lay down detailed rules in accordance with the LAMO. That's the intention of the motion. I would like to explain my search in this respect, because on the one hand I also attach great importance to self-regulation, but on the other hand I can see that things are going wrong. Then what is the means of intervention?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u318	We've talked about it in detail. That is the possibility I have to destroy a decision of a municipality or a province. I'm sure it won't help if we make all kinds of different rules for that. It's either one or the other. I have chosen the possibility of destruction. I have also chosen to leave the responsibilities where I think they belong, in the knowledge that museums know very well that the LAMO is there. So it can also be used. Mr Pechtold asked the government to consider in his motion how museums have cut back on "knowledge and skills" over the last ten years and how scientific research on collections has developed. I'll leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. I would like to add that I consider the wording that museums have cut down on knowledge and skills premature. A great deal has happened in the museum sector. I recently launched a programme to strengthen the scientific function of museums. We have the biennial monitor of the Heritage Inspectorate, which is watching this closely. We do notice incidents at museums where savings are being made, but the conclusion is premature that it would only be about austerity. I attach great importance to that scientific function and knowledge and skill. I also attach great importance to sharing it with the Cultural Heritage Agency. I'd like to include them, too. I would therefore like to give you a slightly broader picture of what we are all doing in this area. Then I could leave the judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u319	If it is a broader investigation and the Minister is not afraid of the outcome, I think it is only right. There is an image that, not only in the Empire but also locally, culture has been cut back and conservators, especially in the arts industry. I also mentioned the universities, where professors are not followed. Information will be lost. It is much more focused on blockbusters and especially on the art that appeals to many. If it comes out that it's all okay, it's fine, but if the opposite is the case, I think it's important to continue with this in our follow-up debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u320	Those comments could be included.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u321	By an investigation, I mean we take stock of what we know in all these different places. Then we can always see if more is needed. I don't really want to mess things up, because we actually know quite a lot. I mention museum associations and universities that have an overview of this and the Cultural Heritage Agency and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u322	I have a question for the Minister...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u323	Let us wait and see what the Minister has to say. If you believe that there is really another point open after that, without which you cannot judge the motion...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u324	It's about this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u325	Except for that, because it's gonna be really late. But you haven't interrupted much, so that's why I'm giving you some extra space.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u326	Thank you, Mr President. Maybe I'm even sharper than the Minister's trade-offs. There are two considerations that are already conclusive. The operative part then asks for an investigation, whereas the conclusions are already above that. As far as I am concerned, how can the Minister support a motion in which the conclusions are already presented, and then it must be examined that these conclusions are correct? I don't know what to do with this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u327	Then let me be more precise. I would like to ask Mr Pechtold to reformulate the operative part of the budget cuts, as well as the fact that the collection is disappearing and there is less and less scientific research being carried out, because that must be part of the inventory, so I call it, of the data we now have. I'd rather not investigate, so, just an inventory of what we know now. Then we can see if there is any reason to go further on parts of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u328	Since this clarification has been requested, I give the floor to Mr Pechtold.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u329	I am even prepared to withdraw the motion, if the Minister simply says: I find it interesting to take stock of what is already available. Then I do not need a motion at all anymore and I think it is fine if we are simply reported on this in the budget debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u330	You have this promise.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u331	Since the Pechtold motion (No ) has been withdrawn, has ceased to be the subject of a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u332	Mrs Keijzer asked a question about the relationship in the law between authors and archives and about the status of research. This is a rather specific question about making digitalised material available online. As a general rule, authorisation should be sought and obtained from a very large number of rightholders. The Heritage Institutions and the Copyright Federation indicated two years ago to the Secretary of State of V and J and to me that for large projects the undertaking of a careful search for all right holders is often unfeasible and therefore there is a real problem. There's been a research report on it. This has recently been presented to the Secretary of State for Security and Justice and to the Minister of EZ. A seminar was also held with my department to discuss the results of the study with the parties mentioned. The results of the study and the seminar are taken into account in the cabinet response. It gets to the Chamber sometime in the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u333	I have just asked whether it is wise to include in the law an article that states that you can set rules with General Measure of Management to resolve that. We're in it now. That way you can arrange a coat rack to record something later.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u334	I think that's a quick conclusion. I said that the Chamber gets that reaction sometime in the summer. I have to involve the investigation and the expert meeting which took place at the end of April. It seems premature to me to put a hook in the law for that right now. Mrs Keijzer asked if there is an absolute ban on excavation. In principle, there is an absolute ban on excavation, as is now the case. A mandatory certificate is required for excavation. I can set other rules for cases where a certificate is not required. I'm working it out right now. I am considering an exemption from the certification requirement for certain university excavations by amateur archaeologists and for excavations of finds done using metal detectors. Of course, the framework conditions must be carefully chosen, but this means that, in the case of further legislation, there can be some broadening as Mrs Keijzer wishes. That goes for amateur archaeology, I expect.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u335	I am not satisfied with this answer. I believe that the implications of this ban are far-reaching. This has been punishable by the Economic Crimes Act. So I'm just going to work on an amendment. In fact, I have already asked the Bureau for the amendment to be sent to the Chamber as soon as possible. It is really not my intention to interfere with the importance that the Minister wants to achieve. Where there really are excavations, they have to be done in a good way. My intention is to prevent unsuspecting citizens or amateur archaeologists from suddenly standing in front of the fence. I don't think that's anyone's intention here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u336	We will therefore ask the Minister to accept that amendment in the letter that was promised to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u337	But once again, in the more detailed regulations I work out, I can therefore provide more space, especially for amateur archaeologists. I'm sure I intend to do the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u338	This is about the quality of legislation. This is about a ban, including, in the end, criminal aspects through the Economic Crimes Act. I think that you should be clear about these things in legislation, so that the public knows what they are and what they are not allowed to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u339	If Mrs Keijzer submits an amendment to this effect, I will respond in writing. Mrs Keijzer also asked about the conservation obligation and whether it was acceptable. In the past, the legislator has never wanted this, because it would be too far-reaching a breach of property rights. It could only be done if there were sufficient financial resources. That money wasn't there. The situation has now changed, as restoration delays have been reduced from 40% to below 10%. There is an insurance scheme for financial compensation. Moreover, there is case law, which almost amounts to a conservation obligation. In view of the changed situation, therefore, I believe that a legal obligation to maintain is now acceptable. Then I come to the motion on part No. 28, requesting the selection and integral designation of a top list of valuable ensembles of buildings with associated interiors. I don't recommend that motion, because there's already a list coming up. I already promised it. The RCE can draw up that list. I do not want to point out the objects, for the same reasons why I have advised against several amendments. I shall now turn to the motion by Mrs Keijzer and Mr Van Dijk on item No. 29, which calls for cross-departmental regulatory bottlenecks to be identified for mobile heritage owners. Those points can be identified, but we will have to resolve them in consultation with the sector. It's too much for me to solve all these problems. I advise against this motion. After all, I have already promised to map it. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 30, in which the government is asked to come up with an integrated vision on the conservation and protection of post-war heritage. I advise against it, because we have a lead policy. We are reluctant to do so, but we have recently identified a large number of buildings. We have no less than 24 million available for this. As far as I am concerned, the approach is successful. The historical environment as a whole is a starting point for policy and not just a select summit.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u340	I have another question on the motion for a resolution on item No. 29. The mere identification of bottlenecks is good, but that has already been done by the interest groups. The intention is, of course, that you will then explore with each other how to solve these bottlenecks. That is what this motion is asking for. The request is not addressed to the minister, but to the government. Does that soften the Minister's heart?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u341	It remains that I, together with the sector, must solve the bottlenecks, even though I do not even know what these bottlenecks are. So I don't know if I can solve them all, especially in this period. It's possible to map. I think it's quite a job to do that before the end of the year, because it's quite a complicated theme. In that case, I can leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber. If this inventory is available, we can see which bottlenecks are so serious that they also need to be resolved.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u342	That can be arranged if I make a change in the operative part of the motion: 'and if so, how these problems can be resolved and informed the Court of Justice'. In my view, that is what I am responding to what the Minister is saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u343	That's the kind of formulation I can live with. If the motion is changed this way, the verdict becomes Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u344	The motion in part No. 29 is amended as follows:
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u345	I come to Mrs Keijzer's motion on item No. 31. It calls on the government to adapt the Brim in such a way as to include voluntary work. I advise against this motion. It's already been investigated. I have already asked Mrs Keijzer for a concrete idea other than what we have been discussing intensively in recent times. I don't read that idea in the motion, so I advise against it. Mr Van Dijk asked about the library collection. There are rules for this, because the collection is seen as a movable collection. Protection is therefore possible. Mr Van Dijk's motion for a resolution 32 about national direction in large archaeological finds I do not recommend, because the responsibility for this lies with the municipalities. They influence costs by their decisions. Otherwise, it would immediately shift to the Empire, which I do not think would be desirable. In the motion by Mr Van Dijk and Mr Monasch on item No. 33 the government is invited to proactively look for ways to preserve mobile heritage, while also pleading for derogations. I advise against this motion. In the motion in part No. 34 by Mr Monasch and Mrs Dik-Faber, the Minister is asked to actively bring regulatory bottlenecks that hamper the possession and maintenance of mobile heritage to the attention of her colleagues and to promote the future consideration of the interests of mobile heritage owners. I'll leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. I do not think it would be desirable, on top of that, to make a judgment on the motion in part No. 33 to leave the Chamber. Now that I say this, I note that Mrs Keijzer's motion on item No. 29 in amended form close to the motion in part No. 34 depends. I leave it to the Chamber how it handles it, but I can imagine that the motions will be put together in one way or another. Otherwise, two statements are made on the same problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u346	We have thus almost reached the end of the Minister's reply. I see Mrs Keijzer has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u347	It cannot be said that I have not already raised this issue in several bodies today. Is it not wise to include in the law some kind of ground for refusal in the provision that I put as much as 'put it on my doorstep, because then I am responsible for it'? I really think it would be wise to include some of the ground for refusal in the law. The question to the Minister is whether she sees it that way. In my mind, this is Article 2.6 (5).
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u348	I need to see what it is. I now come to Article 2.7 on the establishment of detailed rules. We should then include this in it. However, you are talking about Article 2.6. I'll come back to this by letter. I don't have the right piece of legislation right now either. However, it is expected that this would be a very limited number of cases. I have just said that, from the past ten or fifteen years, we can only mention a few examples where something was actually threatening to go wrong. To be honest, I do not have any signals either that I am going to have top-notch items on my doorstep. I might want to start my own museum, but I don't have that impression for the time being. It is really only a matter of special cases: cultural goods of particular quality, the owner of which is willing to hand over these 'not and unsigned', as it is called. I do not expect there to be any reason to add all kinds of additional conditions to that, also in view of the whole procedure that precedes it. There must have been a social discussion about it and then someone has to say he's giving it up. I assume that this will only be done in special cases. However, in the letter I promised on the amendments, I will address this question with the right technique and the references to the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u349	Mrs Keijzer and other spokesmen, I would like to make a proposal to you. The Minister has announced that she is on a... I see you have something to say, Mrs Keijzer, but I'll be right back with you. Then you can also respond to my proposal. The Minister announced that she would give a further opinion on some of the amendments. I would suggest that in a week's time she should come forward with that opinion and explanation and that we should then take another week before we vote on it. The vote would not be for two weeks. The Minister has also promised to answer your question further, Mrs Keijzer. If that does not reassure you, it will also give you the opportunity to table an amendment. That's still room for the vote. The Minister should then undertake to give a written response very quickly, so that all Members can take note of that response before the vote. I would like to make that proposal to you, even in view of the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u350	I am a practical person, and this seems to me to be a practical solution. But I think it's a bit of a show. I brought it up in my first term. I've committed multiple interruptions. In my second term, I referred to it again. The end of the song is that I get an answer that I don't think is right either. It is not just about masterpieces, it is also about cultural goods that have not yet been identified. But I end up the way I started: I'm a practical person, so I wait.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-21.u351	I would like to thank Mrs Keijzer very much for her constructive attitude. So the vote is in two weeks' time.
