ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u1	Thirteen speakers have spoken for this debate. We have five minutes of speaking time per group. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Wilders of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. Calling the Chamber back from recess: Is that necessary? Yes. It's necessary. We are gathered here today to prevent the Prime Minister from doing his most important hobby tomorrow: girling to Greece, this time 5 billion. What kind of choices are those? What kind of prime minister is that? What country does he think he's Prime Minister of? Who does he think he's gonna stand up for? In any case, that is not for the Dutch, but for the Greeks and also for the asylum seekers. Half of Africa is shipping in to get benefits here. In our country, 1,700 fortune seekers are added every week. That's 250 a day and 10 an hour, day and night. It's the biggest crisis in post-war history. We're facing an asylum tsunami like we've never seen before. You'd say we need our money to stop them all, but no, there's another five billion going to the Greeks. Do we all remember that memorable television debate just before the election? VVD leader Mark Rutte gets the question. He looks at the hostess and solemnly promises: not a penny, not a penny for the Greeks. And the Netherlands believes him. Rutte wins the election. But who, who will be ready tomorrow to give the Greeks support package number three? Prime Minister Rutte, the Pinocchio of the Low Countries. His nose has already reached Athens. What a betrayal, what a betrayal to his own constituents! Billions, billions of hard-earned Dutch taxpayers' money have already been shipped to Greece. About 20 billion, no less. How hard do our people, our Dutch people, have to work for that? How much blood, sweat and tears of Dutch people is that? How many families must be crooked for that? How much pension money from our elders is that? And it's not enough! We have to get money back to Athens, now 5 billion. The counter already stands at about 25 billion Dutch money in total, money that we never see again, over €3,000 per Dutch household. Think of what we could have done with the 25 billion, in the care, for our elderly, for the people in the nursing homes, for pensions or to stop happiness seekers and to strengthen our borders or to help the police in a decent collective agreement and a decent salary. In the meantime, what did the Netherlands get for its choice? Blunt budget cuts, tax increases. Everyone has to pay for it, but especially the elderly in the Netherlands. It is shocking: 80% of Dutch seniors are now in financial trouble. Today's newspaper said they're even going to avoid care, not go to the dentist, skip a specialist visit. That Prime Minister over there, he doesn't care about Mark Rutte at all. He even refuses to promise that the elderly will come in the plus. This cabinet hates the elders of the Netherlands. I wonder what those choices are. What kind of Prime Minister makes those choices? How reliable are they in Greece? Let me just say it. The Greeks lie and cheat. They'd do anything, but they didn't do anything. I predict they'll forget all the promises once the silver fleet's in. They would take the toughest measures, but nothing happened. Each time, Mark Rutte draws "He sits there by the cross." Every time, the promises of the European junkie called Greece are believed: one more time, really, I'm going to change my life, you'll get it back, with interest! I can still hear them saying it. And every time Mark Rutte gardens Prime Minister Rutte, I have to say, back in. Whatever they do, the Greeks will get their money. The elderly in the Netherlands do not, but the Greeks do get their money, because the project that has already been bankrupt ten times has to be saved. The project called the euro. The bottomless pit called Brussels. The idol called: European Union. A blind horse can see it. Everyone sees it, but Rutte II doesn't. This government doesn't see it. This cabinet seems to have gone collectively insane. My proposal is to stop this madness. Not another 5 billion to the Greeks. Please spend that money on our own elders, border guards or the police. If you give that money to the Greeks, as far as I'm concerned, you're not worth the cut. Politics is choosing. You must choose the Netherlands, the elderly here, and not the corrupt Greeks there. If you do, if at the end of this debate it appears that you are transferring that money, then you should not only be ashamed of yourself, but also leave, resign, leave and never come back. Leave it to the Greeks to swindle. In that case, I shall table a motion of censure in the second term. For the Netherlands, and let that be my last sentence, deserves a prime minister who stands up for the Dutch, not for the Greeks and the fortune seekers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u3	You may go back to the chair, because there are still a few questions for you, at least from Mr Pechtold.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u4	Of course, everyone has to deal with their own past. However, if you take the measure of their promises to others, it is interesting to recall what happened 15 years ago on 31 May. At that time there was a vote on the admission of Greece to the euro area. That was certainly not a unanimous vote, because there were four opposing parties. Of the 150 Members who voted 15 years ago, there are now three in Parliament, including Mr Wilders. Mr Wilders then voted in favour of the Greeks joining the eurozone. What about your own promises, Mr Wilders?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u5	That is one of the reasons why I am extremely happy to have left the party I was part of at the time. It is, of course, true: I voted for it then. I don't do that anymore. I was in another party back then. I then established a new party: the Party for Freedom. We have been against every penny for Greece from the start. In 2010 and 2011 we have already brought the Chamber back from recess in the previous packages to fight this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u6	If Mr Wilders had all that talk of his own voice in 2000 and if he was pressured by the VVD Group to vote for Greece's accession to the euro area, why did it take more than four years until Mr Wilders came to that understanding and separated? If we are talking about credibility and taking each other's measure, then if I were Mr Wilders, I would just sing a tone lower.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u7	There is no more credible than the Freedom Party. We have been against this megalomaniac European pathway from the very beginning since the day we were founded. We have shown reports to the world, showing that we would be better off without the euro, that the Netherlands would do better economically without that nasty transfer union called the euro zone, that we would be better off if we were not members of the European Union like Switzerland. You can scream from your bench, but your party has only wanted more Europe. You are even opposed to a referendum on Europe today, because you are afraid that the electorate might correct you. That is the reality.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u8	Mr. Chairman. Together works better than any man for himself. Whether it is about tackling climate problems, international conflicts, the tame of the financial sector, the PvdA believes that cooperation, European cooperation, is crucial for prosperity and well-being, for peace and for security. It is only 30 to 40 years since dictators were in power in countries such as Spain, Portugal and Greece, colonels. These countries have been developing enormously thanks to European cooperation and support. New democracies have emerged. People's freedoms have increased. There has been unprecedented economic growth in these countries. That is good for the people there, but of course also good for the Netherlands. As a trading country, our country has an interest in peace and stability on the European continent. In recent years, the PvdA has been committed to helping countries in difficulty. This never requires easy decisions or simple measures, because in return for our outstretched hand Ireland, Portugal, Spain and Cyprus had to take difficult but necessary measures. We can see it's working. After difficult years, these countries will recover, there will be prospects and employment will increase, as in the Netherlands. The PvdA believes that Greece can find its way up again, but far-reaching measures are inevitable for this. The agreement requires a great deal from the Greek people, but also many from other European countries. At the same time, the agreement offers a new perspective. The PvdA has always drawn attention to the importance of investment in the economy that is going so badly, which has gone so badly. $35 billion is available for that. Measures are also being taken to improve Greek education so that the Greeks can make better use of their knowledge and skills. Hard agreements have been reached on tackling corruption and on putting taxation in order, which is still such a mess. It is thanks in part to this cabinet and, in particular, to the President of the Eurogroup that these agreements have been reached. The PvdA would like to congratulate him on this. A great deal of work has been done in recent months. What some of my fellow Members are saying today, and we have just heard one simple solution to the problems in Greece, there is no such thing. Those who suggest that the Netherlands can manage the big problems of this time on its own, are making a fool of themselves. It is precisely in this time of great unrest in the world around us that we, as Europe, must join forces. That works better than any man for himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u9	In Greece, when you ask people what they think of this package, even to drivers who have agreed to it, you notice that the confidence that this is really going to work and that this is the solution to the problems is almost zero, perhaps even less. Today, the government group that is a coalition member of Mr Nijboer's group has already indicated yesterday that it does not have any confidence in the package at all. When I hear Mr Nijboer speaking, he has a great deal of confidence in it. Is that trust based on something, I ask Mr Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u10	I would like to inform Mr Slob that Greece has a very difficult time to go and is now in an incredibly difficult situation. The alternative of bankruptcy would have been disastrous for the Greeks. There would have been total chaos and enormous unemployment. There is a need for a thorough reform of the Greek economy and for corruption to be addressed, for measures to be taken in respect of protected sectors such as pharmacists. For example, medicines become half cheaper. There will be all kinds of measures that are heavy and that hurt, but which are necessary and provide a basis for helping the Greek economy. Yeah, I believe in that. I believed in it for Ireland, for Spain and for Portugal. I believe that this can provide the basis for the recovery of the Greek economy. The Greeks were already doing well before the elections, but at that time there was a Prime Minister who acted irresponsiblely and who has done enormous damage in recent months.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u11	I'm always very happy with people who believe...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u12	I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u13	...but that Mr. Nijboer believes in this? I have to take his word for it, but this is a package that the Greeks are asking, for example, for 50 billion dollars worth of state property to be sold. They have now sold 14 airports for 1.2 billion. So they still have 48.8 billion to go. Where are they gonna get it? It is a package that, together with the other packages, places a total debt of over EUR 300 billion on the shoulders of Greek citizens. Can you really say with dry eyes, Mr Nijboer, that this is the solution to the problems there?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u14	Yeah, and that's what I said in my contribution. For such a problem with the economy are not easy, painless solutions. The banks are all closed, the people couldn't reach their money anymore and the question is whether people can still get their pay. There are very difficult measures to be taken, but I do think that, together with the investments that Europe is making available to Greece, they provide the basis for and a prospect of recovery. The other solution, a bankruptcy, would have been disastrous. That's a sham solution; I don't believe in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u15	Would Mr Nijboer consider selling Schiphol or the Rotterdam port to pay off debts?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u16	No, that's not necessary at all. The Dutch government conducts a responsible fiscal policy. That's where the PvdA stands as well. Also to keep the provisions we now have in health care and social security, affordable for everyone in the future. So that's not necessary at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u17	It is not necessary at the moment, but the question is relevant. What you don't want to happen, don't do to anyone else. We are asking for 50 billion in privatisations in a package. If we were in such a situation, would we? Try to ask yourself if we would then sell the port of Rotterdam, or Schiphol. What is the answer of the PvdA?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u18	You have to make sure you don't get into that situation. I will deal with the question of privatisations. Yesterday, I went through the whole list. What is needed in Greece? That's the investment. Can a government that has no money make investments in the economy possible? The infrastructure is very badly happy there. The energy supply is not yet at the level Mr Klaver wants to get close to. That requires investment, but they don't even have money to do the normal things. It is therefore a good thing that investments are added. For example, I also saw a whole list of hotels with golf courses. Maybe GroenLinks defines golf courses as nature, but I am really in favour of this being done by private parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u19	The Socialist Group will vote in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. I have just heard him say in response to Mr Slob's interruption that the Greeks are having such a difficult time. Who does Mr Nijboer stand for? Does he stand here for the Dutch people or for the Greeks? May I give the elderly of the Netherlands as an example? That is a group that the Labour Party was worried about a long time ago, in the days of Drees. 80% of Dutch elderly people are now in financial difficulties. They don't go to the doctor anymore because they can't afford their own risk anymore. They're not going to the dentist anymore. Those are the people we stand for here, aren't they? Those are the people the Labour Party should be worried about, aren't they? Those people are in bad shape. Not with the Greeks. Those people are in bad shape. Why can't I hear him about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u20	Unlike Mr Wilders, I do not believe in simple politics and simple solutions. The PvdA believes that cooperation, together being one Europe, one continent, helps us as a trading country, and that that is good for everyone; for the Greeks, but also for Europe and the Netherlands. Closing the borders, barring us behind the dikes and then saying that it's all because of that angry outside world and blaming everyone for Mr Wilders' political methods, that's all possible, but it doesn't solve anything. That doesn't help anything and is ultimately bad for people in the Netherlands. I am firmly convinced of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u21	That was a nicely rehearsed story, but it doesn't go into my point. My point was: you are here for the Dutch people; you are now giving 5 billion guarantees to the Greeks, but where are the guarantees for the elderly in the Netherlands? For this the Labour Party must stand here: to stand up for the elderly of the Netherlands. That's your job! No guarantees to the Greeks, but guarantees to the elderly in the Netherlands. If you don't, you'd better move your whole party to Greece.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u22	As I see it, Mr Wilders will be able to discuss the comments he has made. But as far as Europe is concerned, in these turbulent times, it is really important that we do not let Europe fall apart. This is in the interests of the Netherlands as a trading country. What do you think of the employees in the port of Rotterdam? What do you think of the employees of Schiphol, or in Veendam at the crossing point? Do they benefit from us shutting down internationally, raising the dikes, hiding behind them? Can we then pay our AOWs and then the taxes can still be paid? Of course not, Mr Wilders. You're making a number. That may be true, but it is not a real answer to the problems of our time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u23	A real picture of this time is that in recent years Greece has been forced down the throats of severe austerity, which means that one in three Greeks is living well below the poverty line, half of young people are out of work there, one company after another in small and medium-sized enterprises has gone bankrupt. This is the result of a policy of five years of austerity. Even the IMF says: 'Oh, we have missed that very much, we should never have done that.' And what do the government and the Labour Party come up with? With another shovel on top of it. And there's no euro going to the ordinary Greek. Once again, it is paying off the ECB, the IMF, so just the financial institutions. When will the Labour Party actually help the Greek economy and the people in Greece who need it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u24	I really believe that this package provides a basis for perspective. It's not without risks. It is not certain that it is going well, but it is a basis for finding the way up again, for creating jobs there again, for combating poverty and for providing benefits for people who are entitled to it. The Greek government has no money for that now. The line that Mr Roemer and the SP advocated, on the luggage carrier of Tsipras, put the whole thing in the soup, has shown how misery came. In fact, poverty has increased in Greece over the last six months. This was due to irresponsible decisions by Mr Roemer's fellow politicians.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u25	Let me make a point: with this new government, the economy increased by 0.8% in the second quarter of this year, i.e. more than in the Netherlands. I'll give this to the Labour Party for comparison. But I am concerned that we have been told such a story in the first loan and that we have also been told such a story in the second loan. Do you remember, Mr. Nijboer? This year the Greek banks themselves could go back to the financial markets. No way! In that case, we wouldn't be standing here right now. Greek debt would not exceed 125% by 2020, but we are going up to 200%. In the meantime, you are selling Greece's silver table, while the Labour Party itself has written a report on values, which states: do not privatise the networks, privatise the infrastructure or privatise the public institutions. Why would you impose that on other countries like Greece, knowing that you won't get a dime for it if you're forced to throw something at the auction?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u26	I have a completely different belief. The last six months have been really good for Greece. Mr Roemer says that the Greek economy has even grown under this government and that it went very well there. I've seen deep misery there. Mr Roemer rightly referred to this. Poverty increased, banks were closed, pensioners couldn't reach their money, people had to live on rations. So that's been really dramatic. That was the policy that Mr Roemer's group supported. But if there is no money, while the economy needs to be rebuilt... If corruption is rampant, if tax avoidance is taking place everywhere, if education is not at the level we want, if health care is not functioning and if the medicines are far too expensive, then you have to take a lot of measures to help the economy get on top of it. The PvdA is convinced that the present measures are painful, but also necessary and the only real response at this time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u27	Mr. Chairman. After seven months of baking, there is finally an agreement. And it wasn't pretty: from threats through time stalls back to square one. After these seven months it is completely unclear to me what Tsipras has actually achieved. The Greek economy is on its way. The banks are closed and his government has only harvested mistrust. Occasionally I also thought: choke on it, Tsipras, what are we still doing? However, my group has always been in favour of an agreement. In the strong focus on Greece, where every tweet and every bilateral is zoomed in, the question is whether we still see everything in the right proportion. Look at what's going on on the Greek islands, on Lesbos and Kos. Our borders are flooded by refugees. What is Europe's response to the explosive situation in the Middle East and the lingering deadlock in Syria? It stays quiet. Do we see what else awaits us? Let us, as a Europe, separate ourselves from Greece? While Greece for Europe is something like the article 12 status of a little Dutch provincial capital? It is about 2% of the European economy, although of course I do not want to trivialize anything. However, it is wise to continue looking for the right perspective. People are being talked about fear, about lazy Greeks and abuse of our solidarity, but the real threat is elsewhere. It is a good thing that Greece is kept inboard. It is good for the Greeks and for Europe, and it is good for the Netherlands. A united Europe will keep the currency stable, keep our borders strong and keep Putin out of the door. It was not for nothing that was watched from Beijing to Washington. I therefore congratulate Minister Dijsselbloem on this result. This has been hard work at the highest level. You'll only have to deal with a Tsipras or a Varoufakis. How do you shake a man like that without all of Europe talking about it? How difficult it is to negotiate with a man who's on the cover of the Paris Match and whose departure into the LINDA. State? Surely you can expect a prime minister to be familiar with complexity and international importance? So you do not make fleeting promises about emergency aid to a European Member State. Maybe in the pub or in the cafeteria, but not as prime minister. As far as I'm concerned, this is worse than that thousand euro promise. What the VVD chooser is promised is one, but we also have a joint responsibility for credibility and reliability. You can't play with people's trust. Elections are not a free pass for unfounded statements. How does the Prime Minister feel about his role in this afterward? Today is not the last time we talk about Greece. The question is whether next time we'll be taken hostage by a Varoufakis or a True Fin. Are we going from euro summit to euro summit again 20 times? Or are we making serious work of a decisive eurozone? As early as 1991, on the eve of the euro, Kohl said: monetary union remains an air castle without steps towards political unity. If this crisis has shown anything, it is that the euro area does not function without political direction. In recent weeks there have been statements by Merkel, Hollande, Renzi and Rajoy, the Heads of Government of Europe's four largest economies. They see the necessity and look further. But Rutte prefers to stay in his castle. We're the fifth economy. I tell you: we are not there; we are not in. Now we can talk. That's how you lose your influence, isn't it? I'd like to get a reaction to this. I'm rounding up. Am I happy with extra money for Greece? No, of course not. Is it risk-free? No. We have to be honest about that, too. After all, the programme is politically fragile. Greece must come a long way, economically and politically. The party of Tsipras is internally torn and Tsipras himself hangs a motion of mistrust over its head. The circumstances are far from ideal. Is this the last time we talk about Greece? I'm afraid not. Would a grexit have been better? To that question, my answer is "no." The Chamber is divided and the proportions are special; the support seems thin. I would also like a response from the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u28	I will not talk to Mr Pechtold about faith, but I will talk to him about trust. Is he confident that Greece is now actually going to reform the economy?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u29	I do not have the possibility of praying, as Mr Van der Staaij would do. I have to stick to hope. Is that hope well-founded? Yes, because the alternatives are worse. An exit of the Greeks from Europe means a direct bankruptcy of Greece, problems for Europe and problems for our Dutch economy. So I will support this package later.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u30	Mr Pechtold said that he hoped that the Greek economy would be reformed, but that he could not put his hand in the fire for it. There are actually very few hard data on the basis of which you can have the confidence that this reform of the Greek economy will take place. Is it not irresponsible, then, to keep spending money on this project, when there is insufficient prospect or perspective? Isn't this how it's gonna get wet and daddy?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u31	I think the package is solid. The subsidy on diesel is abolished. Greece deletes half a billion dollars a year spent on defence. 50 billion is being privatised. This is not just about the airport and the energy company, but about a whole list. A marina, a beautiful hotel, a golf course and a marina, all from the Greek government, are on sale. They're doing something about pensions. The common Greek will also notice something of it. The Greek government is taking firm action. The rest of Europe will help. Will we be done talking about this soon? No. Is this the only way? Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u32	Mr Pechtold has kept a very consistent D66 story on this point. It is to his credit that he is still doing this with the third aid package. However, I have missed one thing in his contribution. D66 has always linked the provision of support to a very direct involvement of the IMF. What is Mr Pechtold's position on the third aid package regarding the involvement of the IMF?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u33	I think it is very important, but we cannot talk about it today. The sustainability of the Greek economy and the whole package will be looked at in October. We hear from other countries, such as the German Parliament today, that they too consider this involvement to be very important. I think that the Dutch cabinet also thinks it is very important; I read that in the letter. This will also require consideration of the sustainability of debt; we have heard Mrs Lagarde from the IMF say that. Then we need to talk about the repayment periods and the already low interest rates. As far as I am concerned, that is possible, because once again, there are no alternatives. A bankruptcy of Greece is bad for the Netherlands. Think about what would happen on Kos if the customs officers and other officials who are left weren't paid there next week. If we look at it for our own sake alone, we must note that the costs are many, many, many times higher than what we are now putting into the third package.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u34	Today, not only in the autumn, but today, today, we must indicate whether or not we support the third aid package or, more precisely, whether we want to give the cabinet room. If the cabinet wanted it, it could even turn its back on the Chamber, although I do not think it would be wise to do so on such a subject as this. Today there is a choice to be made, but today there is still no clarity about the IMF. The clarity that we do have is that debt is now considered to be far too high and that debt write-off will therefore have to take place. What are the views of D66, also in the direction of the cabinet, on this issue? That is what we need to decide today. Or does Mr Pechtold think: let's forget it, we'll see it sometime?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u35	With this cabinet, and especially with the VVD narrow part in it, I have little to eat. They just told the voters something. They have made sure that there is a lot of grumpy about the Greeks in society, while, if you go into it a little bit and try to see what else is ahead of Europe, you support the direction of a package. On the political question "do we now agree, do we support the cabinet in this agreement?" I say, "Yes, I do." And that is what I am doing while there is uncertainty about the IMF. I think it should be done. I believe that Minister Dijsselbloem should follow that up on his responsibility as President of the euro area. He has a new mandate for a second period. He knows how to do a lot of things. I have every confidence that Dijsselbloem will take care of that with the IMF.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u36	Madam President. The cabinet is asking the Lower House today to agree to a new and third support programme for Greece. The total value of this is at least EUR 86 billion in total. At the beginning of this calendar year Greece was finally climbing out of the valley. The interventions of the previous Greek governments began to bear fruit. The economy was finally growing again and the primary surplus was possible by the end of this year. But the Syrian government has taken the country to the abyss in a few months. The amount of EUR 86 billion is the price of only five months of mismanagement. These costs are now being passed on to those countries that have always reformed, and also to those that were needed at the time, such as Ireland, Spain, Portugal and even Cyprus. These are countries that will recover after major efforts. The Greek government has lived on the brink, but Prime Minister Tsipras blamed the rest of Europe for the misery. He begged for support from other countries, but his cabinet then declared those countries for everything that was beautiful and ugly. The Greek government offended Germany, the country that did by far the most of all European countries. And the bottom line was the drafting of a referendum at a time when Greece was already at the bottom. Where the rescue of Greece should come from two sides, it has been one-way over the past period. It is surprising that after a short summer all the confidence of European leaders in Greece has suddenly returned. The suspicion has disappeared like snow before the sun. The confidence is strong enough to make EUR 86 billion available now. The CDA doesn't have that confidence. Therefore, the CDA has already expressed strong reservations about this new support package. Already in 2000, the CDA voted against Greece's accession to the euro area. Even then, we were not confident that Greece would be able to meet the strict European standards. But once Greece was in the euro area, the CDA felt that everything should also be done, with the Greeks, to keep Greece within that euro area. And during the big euro crisis of 2011 and 2012, Greece also threatened to fall Italy and Spain. A departure from the eurozone from Greece would have become a domino game. Our coin, the euro, would collapse. That danger is now over. The CDA has always used as a criterion for the assessment of the packages "Package' in the two previous................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... This package is not good for Europe and it is not good for the Netherlands. By setting a clear limit, namely that the rules must be complied with, the euro will become stronger in the long term. After Greece, France is already in the waiting room to stretch the rules. They've done that already at the beginning of this year. The CDA stands for a credible euro area, in which an agreement is an agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u37	Where's Lubbers' CDA, Van den Broek, The Hope Scheffer, The Hunter and so on? Where is Merkel's Christian Democracy and Juncker's? Today in the Bundestag, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats said that it would vote in favour for a number of reasons, and that one of the main reasons is that we face even greater challenges than the Greeks alone. Where's the CDA and his responsibility?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u38	Jaap de Hoop Scheffer's CDA, just mentioned by Mr Pechtold, was the CDA that voted against Greece's accession to the euro area. We were in favour of this in Germany and in other countries. During the period when Jan Peter Balkenende was Prime Minister, the CDA voted as a group against Romania's and Bulgaria's accession to the European Union. At what times is the CDA against? At times when continuing in a political process is ultimately worse for Europe than at some point making the choice not to move forward. In Greece 2000, the CDA was right; in Romania and Bulgaria, the CDA was right, and I give you a note, Mr Pechtold, that the CDA is right about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u39	Getting right, being right. What matters to me is that if the union is already founded by one political movement, it is Christian democracy, perhaps with the Catholics in there. This isn't about the Romanians or the Bulgarians, it's not even about Greece. It is about whether we can keep to each other's rules, as you rightly say, and whether we can help each other when the problems are so great that we are stronger together. You're threatening the French already. Are you going to throw the French out when they have 3.1%? Is that what you're gonna do? Or will we, as a strong economy, the fifth economy of this continent, simply ensure that we keep the big boys by the rules and that the little boys come along, because the problems at our southern borders are greater than just non-working ATMs?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u40	This is also about Greece, so I do not agree with Mr Pechtold. As far as France is concerned, at the beginning of this year the CDA called on the Prime Minister not to agree to abandon the strict rules against France. Apparently, there's a difference between D66 and the CDA. For the CDA, a strong Europe is a Europe that draws the consequence and sets a limit if it loses the confidence at some point that a certain path is the right one. Europe is always afraid of short-term damage. This is also true if Greece falls out of the euro. However, here we are talking about the euro in the long term, and we all know one thing: after this debate on the third aid package there will be another debate. We do not even know how big the debt is going to be for Greece. Then there will be another debate, perhaps on a fourth package. There has to be a limit in Europe: these are the demands on the euro; you are in it, you are in it, or you are not in it, and that is what the Greek Government is doing, but then you will no longer be in it. The change is that over the last six months, a government has squandered EUR 86 billion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u41	In this discussion, the CDA is at its best a very small accountant. Listen to Christian Democrat Merkel. Listen to the Christian Democrats Juncker and Rajoy, listen to the Social Democrat Hollande, listen to the big players on the European field! They do not want to go on the side of the small accountants, they want to move towards a clear political direction for Europe. That does not mean that you have 20 euros tops on a country that represents 2% of your economy. It means that you have a political union direction for Europe, something with which the social democracy, the VVD and the CDA all agree again, while they are now being difficult to deal with in front of the electorate. That is what I blame you, Mr Buma, and Mr Rutte.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u42	Speaking of Europe, I would like to advise Mr Pechtold and his party to get out of the liberal international, in which those scary VVDs are in, and to move quickly to Juncker's party, the EPP. Apparently that's where loyalty is! On the substance, I keep saying that the future of Europe cannot be a future of muddling and of abandoning rules. The Netherlands is the country that always complies with the most stringent and most precisely with those rules. I also think we should do that, but if you want to save another country and do the best you can, you can demand that that other country does the same. If it does not, everyone should at some point say 'last warning and then a sanction', not 'last warning and then the next last warning'. The latter happens here. In the long run, that's gonna be very, very expensive.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u43	The CDA stands in a tradition of taking responsibility and European cooperation. I've always appreciated the CDA for that. In that tradition you want to come out together as countries when it is very difficult, even if sometimes it is painful, in the general interest and in the interests of Europe. What position does the CDA expect with its stance from the cabinet? All parliaments will be in a position today, including Finland and Germany, including Mr Buma's CDU colleagues and including Merkel, who is nevertheless a leader in these difficult debates. What responsible position should the cabinet take if it follows the CDA line? What would the CDA like to see? Would that position relate to the responsibility that the CDA has always taken as a party, which I also commend to the CDA? Where is this responsibility to be found?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u44	Then I come back to what I just said: taking responsibility also means taking responsibility for setting a limit. Remember that it has often been said to Greece that this was a final warning. Did all the people who then said "last warning" already think that there would be a final warning after that? No. For the CDA, the second package has always been the last package, because that was the last warning. After six months of Tsipras, Greece has EUR 86 billion at stake. Mr Nijboer talks about "together." That's a very nice word, but it has to come from both sides. If we support Greece, I expect Greece to do everything in its power to meet the requirements. Greece did not meet the requirements and therefore did not want to work together. Then there's that consequence.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u45	Mr Pechtold just referred to the accounting approach, but I fear it is even more flatter. In the opposition, the CDA says no, but when the CDA bears responsibility as a government party, the CDA says yes. Mr De Jager promised that we would get our money back with interest and that it would all be even better. That was about the same file, about Greece! We would get even more money back and the loans were needed in the interests of Europe. Then the CDA says yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u46	That's all bullshit. I just mentioned that. The CDA is looking at the decisions that are taking place at the time. We did so when the CDA was in the government and the then cabinet urged us to agree to the accession of Romania and Bulgaria. At that time it was argued that all Christian Democrats and all governments agreed and that the Netherlands would be alone, an argument that I now belong to another party. "No," said the CDA then, "we find it irresponsible. We are very much in favour of Europe, but we know that it upholds our standards." So both in the opposition and in the coalition we say no if we have to. We do not do that because we want it so badly, because we understand the consequence of that no, but we say no because a strong Europe and a strong euro sometimes means that the penalty comes after the last warning. Mr. Chairman. I was talking about keeping the credibility of yourself to rules, but there's more. The Tsipras government is now, in fact, a minority government. Tsipras now relies on parties outside his own coalition for this package, while Syriaza itself is split. We know that Tsipras has already announced a vote of confidence in his own parliament once the deal is in. Did the cabinet talk to Tsipras about that? Did it say that the money, if he does, is immediately down the drain and not coming? Because if there is a vote of confidence and the Greek Prime Minister loses it, then of course there will be new elections in Greece this autumn and things will stop again. The chance of it happening is greater than the chance that it doesn't happen. How's the Cabinet handling that? The role of the IMF is also decisive. What's agreed on that? Yes, the IMF is in on it, but everyone is saying that they do not know whether the IMF is in on it and, if so, how much money. Even more important is the question of how big the debt is going to be. The CDA believes that the Dutch Parliament can only agree to such a large package if it also knows how much it costs. I would therefore like to hear from the cabinet what the debt is going to be or how much lower the interest is going to be. What will be the extended maturity of the loans? If the cabinet itself does not know that, I really do not understand how it could agree to the support package. I come to my final point. Already before the summer the CDA asked the cabinet to also consider a plan B. The Minister of Finance said at the time that this could not be made public. For the latter my group understood and, do not be afraid, I still understand that such a plan will not be made public. However, it is time to have it ready and at least take it out of the closet in the room. Because even if this third package does come and if a majority of the House is now in favour of such a package, we have to bear in mind that we will be back together before the end of this year because Greece has not met the requirements. Then the question is whether it will again be a matter of final warnings and money. Or is it finally going to be: no, this is the border? So there's got to be a plan B either way. I'm asking the Cabinet to take that plan out of the closet. As far as my group is concerned, such a plan should enter into force today. But I say to all those who now support the third package that they must realise that such a plan B will probably have to enter into force before the end of this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u47	Mr. Chairman. Here we are again, now for the third aid package for Greece. Despite all the fine words and expectations expressed in previous support packages, it is once again necessary to step in. You would almost think that the failure of the earlier packages would have taught you how to deliver a third package of support. However, nothing is less true. Once again, it is decided to increase Greek debts further. If we add this support package to the previous support packages, we will amount to some EUR 326 billion, i.e. €326 million. That's a huge burden. So the burden that was already there is getting even heavier. A real solution is, in our view, becoming further and further away. Why does the cabinet once again support the prescription of the same prescription, whereas twice has already proved painfully that the medicine provided has not helped? Hasn't the cabinet learned anything since 2010? At the time, the Christian Union was one of the few parties that did not vote for Greece's accession to the euro. We realize that's a crossing station. Greece is now in the euro and we also feel responsible for this country and its people. I say with Mr Nijboer: there are no easy solutions. But the solutions that are now being chosen are not, in the end, real solutions. Let's just say that out loud. In fact, the solutions chosen will only increase the misery. Why isn't that recognised? Where's the guts to make real choices? I'm asking the cabinet if debt forgiveness is a forbidden word? According to the Christian Union, it should be a key word. The IMF is also opting for this, as we understand. After all, Greek debt is no longer covered by the IMF definition of sustainable debt. Is the cabinet running away from this kind of difficult intervention and asking for political reasons, or does it have economic reasons for doing so? If the latter is the case, then I say: we do not see these economic motives. Speaking of the IMF, I would like to ask the following question. Mr Buma rightly asked that question, and I also told him Mr Pechtold. What remains of the harsh demand of the Netherlands, ever in the second aid package, that the IMF should have a strong involvement in agreements made with Greece? In my opinion, the IMF's involvement is still somewhere above the Areopagus. In the autumn we may know for sure what it is going to be, but we already know that the support package that is now under way does not have the approval of the IMF. I want the cabinet to speak in plain language when it comes to the IMF and its involvement in it. Apart from the fact that Greece's debt will increase significantly again with this third aid package, the package is also raging on all sides. In July, our spokesman, Carola Schouten, pointed this out in the general consultation already held in the recess, including the very unrealistic demand for Greece to sell out 50 billion in state property. Although the Greek Government has made a special effort to obtain political support for this package in its own country, we all know that confidence in Greece that this package is going to work is virtually nil. This is also said out loud in Greece. There is even a chance that the present government in Greece will not even reach the end of the calendar year. Then we'll start again from the beginning. My group truly does not understand that the cabinet can say with dry eyes that this support package is a good solution. Who's kidding who? I ask the Prime Minister in particular. It is clear that the Christian Union Group cannot support this package, some of which is likely to exacerbate the problems in Greece. With us we can talk about solutions that the Greeks really need, that is to say a waiver of part of the debt and aid to the Greeks through European funds combined with exit from the euro area.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u48	Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u49	Mr. Buma?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u50	I found the word "President" so special that I thought "I am interrupting".
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u51	What's up?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u52	I really don't understand this. This is one of the biggest debates we have this year in the Lower House, with the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance and many group chairmen. The chairman of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has not even bothered to come to this Chamber, let alone to speak. What's behind this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u53	That is what the VVD is trying to do as a financial spokesman, as happened in this Chamber earlier today.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u54	But that indicates the importance you attach to this debate. Where the whole room is full, the group chairman of the VVD is not even in the Chamber. I don't say a lot of that, but I'm gonna say some of that right now. We have all seen how important this is for the VVD. And to say this, I am afraid to dive here now by leaving the group chairman at home, I think it is a weak display.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u55	Mr. Chairman. After six months of taking the blood out of the nails of the other euro area countries, something completely unexpected happened. In record time, the country promised to get better and has already implemented a major reform package. It's something that exceeded my imagination a few weeks ago. Although we doubt whether there will be any further delivery, I also see that there are now firm demands on paper. Hopefully, the cabinet will be right that Greece can only go one way in order to really reform the country. Nevertheless, it is no secret that over the last few months, on behalf of the VVD, I have made every effort to get the story our way, namely no more money for Greece and with the probable outcome a removal from the euro. If we had given Varoufakis his way right in February, we certainly wouldn't have made any progress. Besides, the Netherlands wasn't alone. There were many critical countries, such as Germany, Finland, the Baltic States, I call on the furious President of Lithuania on television in memory of Slovenia and Spain. Schäuble's plea for debt write-off, if Greece had only left the euro on the other hand, would have been worth investigating. Today, all these countries have been abandoned. In the meantime, all critical countries support the plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u56	Before going through the pump on behalf of the VVD fraction, let me give you another try. Today is a historic opportunity for the VVD to write history. The so-called emergency procedure in the ESM does not apply. This means that every country in Europe must agree and that the Netherlands has a right of veto. Due to the CDA's vote against, you can make sure that there is a majority in the House of Representatives not to do so. That's historic. You can live up to the promise of your political leader, who has now come to trade-K with all his lies, by vetoing a majority in the Chamber now: no money to Greece. That's a big deal. You can serve your constituents. Why don't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u57	We have two reasons not to. I'll give them to you. Firstly, I note that all the critical supporters in Europe are no longer there. Finland doesn't believe in it, but that's where it wants to keep its own government. In Germany Chancellor Merkel indicated that she cannot have it alongside the other major crises in Europe. I can imagine that this has been a consideration for more countries. The pressure of the Americans must have been enormous. I do not blame them either; a geopolitical balance is also legitimate. Internationally, there are no more allies. Mr Wilders is right: then the Netherlands can still do one thing. Moreover, I think that we should do so especially if we are absolutely 100% sure that it will stop for Greece. Now that all Member States have committed themselves to continuing support for Greece, I do know what it will turn out to be: Europe comes with a route, namely the emergency procedure or perhaps another bypass, to allow money to go to Greece. Then the Netherlands will be alone. Secondly, in addition to the international aspect, we are dealing with the domestic issue. I don't give up on the domestic stuff. I do not want chaos in Greece to continue in the Netherlands, where things are just getting better, where we have the economy on steam and where money comes for tax cuts and for more people to work. For us, therefore, the chaos in Greece is not worth any further fuss in the Netherlands, just as things are getting better here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u58	What is this really lame story? What's this? You blame everyone. You refer to Dutch politics, while the promise "No money to Greece!" was done by your political leader, Prime Minister Rutte, at the time as the leader of the VVD. Show some balls in Europe! Show me you can use that right of veto. It was Gandhi who once said: only dead fish always swim with the current. Show me you can go against the current sometime. You said yesterday that you think Greece is a pariah, but now you are going to transfer 5 billion to a pariah with all excuses. I can only conclude that you are not worthy of a snipe, that you have the backbone of a banana and that you would rather be friends with your friends in Europe, the urophiles, than stand up for your principles, that you stand up for your voters and that you keep the promise of the VVD. The VVD has since become a sidecar of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u59	I haven't been able to find out a question. It helps if you have international allies. These have all made their differences, and that is also legitimate. Earlier in the debate it was referred to: there is a lot going on, especially outside Europe, which we all have to tackle. I heard Merkel say in the Bundestag: I am dealing with ISIS, with refugees, with Ukraine and with Russia; I do not want to have a fifth crisis. I understand very well that she said that. This may have been the reason why Germany has dropped out. If you are the last country in the world to use your veto today, then you must also be 100% sure that that will have an effect. I'm not 100% sure today. I know we're gonna get a lot of shit back here. That's not what I'm willing to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u60	What's happening here is really bad. This isn't about anything anymore. The people who follow politics here really think: why do we still have a Lower House? That House of Representatives once said that every time a loan package comes, we want to be able to make our own assessment here in this house. That was also a great wish of the VVD. A lot of parliaments didn't. You will now include them with the parliaments that are in favour, but they have not voted at all. We thought that was important. Why? Because in the end the Dutch Parliament must be able to answer with a no. What does the VVD say, however? All the others are ahead, so are we. What is it now? Is the VVD for some kind of calimero who thinks he can't do otherwise? Is the VVD against the package and then before? There are two options, or you're in favour of the package and then you vote yes, or you're against the package and then you vote no. There's no middle ground. What does the VVD do?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u61	The VVD has rightly fought for a right of veto in the treaty. A veto means you can use it, but you don't always have to use it. We've made the decision. I have just told you how this balance has gone.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u62	I get that Zijlstra. I have a great deal of respect for Mr Harbers, who has had to stand here. I do find it ungrateful. By the way, I do not think it is appropriate that he calls other countries pariahs. But that's how you do it as a VVD, isn't it? You go into the election as a bunch of PVV's and yell with chocolate letters in the newspaper what there is: €1,000, no money to the Greeks, "that's what I stand for." In the end, it will come to a vote and then Social Democrats and D66 will be allowed to save your ass. This cabinet has the support of 76 MPs here. There would only have to be one dissident in between to stop this. Yet as a VVD you just assume that your ass is saved thanks to the decency and normal language of other parties. Five weeks ago, I was in this debate with Mr Harbers. Then he had ten hard points for the cabinet. I went over them again this morning. One and a half points have been brought in, if you can call that points. He didn't do anything. The question to Mr Zijlstra, no, Mr Harbers is: what kind of display is this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u63	We make our decision every time. Yeah, I fought to get it better. Yeah, I asked questions about that. Yeah, things have also improved, including the private ring fund and the bail-in. And no, some things didn't work out. One thing I'm sure of. If I had never asked questions, never put things on the table a month ago or six months ago, at least nothing would have happened. That doesn't fit me. I'm gonna keep fighting, but I have to admit that everything didn't work out. I'm just as sorry about that. Nevertheless, I am not talking about getting into this. Whatever D66 votes, D66 is entirely up to you. I don't need the support, I'll make my own assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u64	Well, I think that's a pretty daring statement! She could almost tempt me to convene a group meeting to find out which of those 40 seats has the guts to send the whole thing home. But no, I do not, because it would be the further bankruptcy of decent, sincere politics to Dutch citizens and taxpayers. 41 seats inside raking with €1,000 promise, 41 seats inside raking with the words "I stand for this and that doesn't happen." That's what the VVD did. Ten points, five weeks ago, demand nothing of it and now have a group chairman sitting somewhere in his room hoping that 'they' agree, which brings mistrust to Dutch citizens. The VVD should say: we must learn from these mistakes. We've got to move on. We must ensure that we prevent such tragedies, just as the other political leaders do. And you must never call another country pariahs again if you transfer 5 billion to it the next day.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u65	Until a year ago, Greece seemed to be as good as all other countries, i.e. Ireland, Portugal, Cyprus and Spain. They're all on their own. In this respect too, the pressure has helped in recent years. I'm glad we kept that pressure on it. Yeah, I'm not sure this is gonna work out anymore. Nevertheless, I still believe that you must stand for it if you have an ideal and can say it loudly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u66	If you have ideals, you can say so loudly. In fact, you are obliged to express that ideal, to promote it and to seek support for it. Any group can do that. The debate on 16 July. I've been tracking it remotely. I also saw that at that time you laid down more or less ten conditions for the judgment to be given on the package a few weeks later. You didn't want to do that at the time. I walked by that list, too. It didn't end up very much. The last point you mentioned was important for the VVD, but for many other groups and perhaps all the groups in this Chamber: the word 'trust'. Do we have faith in it? Now you're saying the whole thing isn't worth it to us, so we support it. Did the trust come to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u67	That trust will have to be won. I'm not going beyond hope, as I just said. Hopefully it'll go the right way this time. However, this will have to be demonstrated in practice. There's one thing that's changed. It surprised me, but it really happened. Greece, after the previous debate, has passed many laws that have not dared to adopt them in years. That's changed. We'll see if it goes on that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u68	The tenth point you mentioned on 16 July was trust. You even said at the time that this might be the most important thing. Now you don't even dare take the word trust in your mouth anymore. That means, I hope, that I understand it correctly, and you must contradict me if I do not put it correctly, that the VVD Group does not have confidence in this package, but that it has other considerations, which I think are more at national level, in order to finally agree with it. So do you agree to provide support with an argument that is flimsy and flimsy and which I do not think is sustainable if you really look at it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u69	Then Mr Slob misunderstands me. You can't order trust. Trust must be delivered. We'll see how that goes. I note, however, that in the intervening month there has been at least one confidence and that this time all the reforms have been implemented in Greece. That's more than it's been in the last one, two, three years. That contributes to trust, but I don't know if that's going well until the end. We can only doubt that at the moment. That will have to be seen further.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u70	It is very remarkable that Mr Harbers says that he has ideals and that he can also express them, but that he does not think it is worth standing for if the fuss comes along. I find that strange. I wonder how far it goes. The involvement of the IMF was a tough condition for the VVD to support the package. At the same time, the VVD does not want debt restructuring to be carried out. Let that be a demand of the IMF to participate. Where is the VVD currently in that discussion? Does the IMF still have to participate? Does the VVD accept that there will also have to be debt restructuring?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u71	There will still be points to fight for in the coming period. With regard to the IMF and the position of debt, I support the cabinet's view that the IMF should participate. The cabinet and the eurogroup say that this cannot be done with debt write-off. Maybe something else should happen to the guilt. The route that is now in the letter and behind which the cabinet stands, namely to see whether the annual burden of debt in Greece can be paid from the budget rather than looking at the level of debt, is, in my opinion, the route on which we should ultimately come out. The cabinet has work to do there. I believe that the cabinet should do everything in its power to ensure that this will be the ultimate outcome: with the IMF, without debt write-off. If anything has to be done about the debt, we must, above all, consider whether it can be paid annually by Greece, even if it is for decades.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u72	I can fall into technology, but the IMF is pretty clear in the memos it writes about this. It says that Greece should not start paying back for 30 years. In 30 years! Then I'm about to retire myself, I hope. That also means, in the end, that we are going to give money to Greece that we will never or never get back, and that it will cost us an enormous amount of money. Will Mr Harbers correct the mistakes made in the past by this Prime Minister, the party leader of the VVD, today? Is he going to say that if you agree to a package today and if you really want Greece to stay with the euro, you cannot do without a real transfer? Is he going to say that Greece's debts again and in the past have not returned? Does Mr Harbers dare to say that out loud?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u73	I note that Europe, too, is still on the path of not letting the debt be written off, but perhaps something about the conditions of the debt will have to be done. That last one does cost money. Nevertheless, I hope that the route on which the cabinet also sits will succeed. We will then consider annually whether the debt burden, the interest rate and the repayment of the debt can be borne by Greece. Then it's gonna be a whole different story. Greece pays low interest rates. The level of debt is therefore not comparable to the level of debt in other countries, as other countries pay higher interest on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u74	So looking at the restructuring of those debts.................................................................................................................. And if I listen carefully to Mr Harbers, he says: we will have to see and assume that the reality is that we will not get back all the money we have put in Greece. If I understood correctly, I would find it extremely fair if the VVD finally came out for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u75	I still prefer not to, so I hope the route succeeds in just looking at the level of annual debt. But I note that it costs money, and that is what I have just said when it comes to debt restructuring.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u76	As one of the arguments for supporting the package, Mr Harbers said that he does not like the Greeks to have trouble in the Netherlands. That may have been a slip of the tongue, but it raises the question of what Mr Harbers means by the fuss that could break out in the Netherlands if the VVD did not support the package.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u77	That's two things. I think that at least we are still working on Greece here for a while, while our focus should be on the state of the Dutch economy, which is getting well on steam, making money for the Netherlands and we can see how everyone can feel that in the wallet. Secondly, I note that the cabinet to which the VVD belongs already has an opinion on this package. So we agree with that judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u78	Now I do not know if the latter is a slip of the tongue again, because that is the lifting of parliament. Mr Harbers says that the cabinet has an opinion; that is what the VVD is in, and that is what we agree with. Has there been pressure from the cabinet on the group to support the plan?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u79	The group makes its own assessment. There are a number of aspects to this consideration. There is, of course, the judgment of the cabinet. There is the content of the package and there is the question of what a negative vote will bring us. I cannot say with a 100% guarantee that we are moving forward with a vote against. When I see how Europe has worked in recent times, I am now convinced that Europe will find a way to support Greece on the left or right. If I don't have that 100% certainty, I'm not gonna fight that fight.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u80	Finally, Mr Buma.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u81	If I were to say it, I would consider this kind of lyrics as a slip of the tongue, but my question was: has the VVD Group been pressured by the cabinet to vote in favour?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u82	The VVD Group makes its own assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u83	So there has been no pressure from the cabinet to vote in favour?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u84	We don't need pressure for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u85	Because of all the fuss, we almost don't get to the content of the VVD judgment anymore. I have actually heard very little about that. What does the VVD think of this package?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u86	The VVD notes that this is the toughest package that we have agreed with Greece in years and that it will have to prove in practice whether this is being achieved. You can still doubt that. We'll see. The first signal, which I have just indicated, is a different signal than in recent years, namely a Greek parliament which is going through all the reforms this time. And that's new.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u87	But all the other arguments that Mr Harbers mentioned to agree, such as fear of hassle, suggest that, apart from all these other circumstances, the agreement is in fact too weak in substance to say yes to it. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u88	No, because we say yes. It's yes or no and we say yes. We are not the only ones who have doubts. I think everyone's having second thoughts. Confidence will have to be built up step by step by Greece, especially after everything that has happened in the last six months. The last few weeks have been different than I expected. I did not expect them to walk as they have walked, namely with a Greece that is now ready to reform.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u89	In conclusion: what the VVD brings to my attention, honestly reminds me of the position of Tsipras. We don't really believe in it, we don't like it, but we support it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u90	There are firm demands on paper and Tsipras has signed it. It's up to him to make it happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u91	Mr Harbers said something very fundamental: we can talk here what we want; Europe will continue with what it is doing. In doing so, he is telling us that democracy in Europe has been completely destroyed. It doesn't matter what a national parliament, whatever it may be, discusses and decides; Europe will go on anyway. Yesterday he also said it: left or right, the money goes to Greece anyway. Have we now carried democracy to the grave?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u92	No, democracy does not mean that you always have to stop coûte que coûte. Democracy still means that you make your decision at a time. We have made that assessment today. We are also looking at what is happening elsewhere in Europe. That's how everyone will have done it. This may have been a number of considerations specific to countries or to the whole geopolitical situation. That's all legitimate; that's not up to me. I see it helps if you get what you want with a few like-minded countries. I do not believe so much in an all-inclusive approach from the Netherlands to this issue. Those would be wrong proportions. There was an alleyway in Greece and now all arrows are on the Netherlands: I don't believe in that. It is the democratic balance that my group has made in this House. It is a trade-off that every group is free to make today.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u93	So that's under group pressure, while you know you're going down a dead end. Mr Harbers was right. What has happened over the past period has indeed been detrimental to democracy. To force what national parliaments must decide from above is to kill democracy. The VVD is allowed to agree for all the magical reasons, and that is what she is talking about herself, but if the VVD agrees today, it will also agree to what Mr Pechtold stands for. That is because you only have the hallway to a political union and to a transfer union and that money has to go from north to south continuously. That is the consequence of a "yes" of the VVD for the coming years. So don't ever come back from it by saying you don't think so and change your election program.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u94	It is the first time I have heard that Mr Roemer is concerned about money going from north to south, but that aside.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u95	Explain yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u96	Mr Roemer just said that there would be a transfer union where money would always go from north to south. He pretends to be very sorry, but I think he doesn't feel so bad because he's been interfering in recent times to be especially interested in Mr Tsipras' government. The answer to Mr Roemer's real question is: we make our assessment on a case-by-case basis. We now see what the battlefield is like in Europe, and we now see how we are voting today. We will look at this at all times in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u97	It's not that easy. You know that the aid package cannot be a definitive, permanent solution, just because of the trade surpluses of the Netherlands and Germany vis-à-vis southern European countries. According to Guy Verhofstadt, the liberal friend of the VVD in the European Parliament, this can only be continued with a transfer union and a political union. If you vote for that, you're on that line. The VVD wrote in her election program that she didn't want to. The VVD voted in favour of motions aimed at increasing control of national parliaments. By supporting a support package over and over again and voting in favour today, the VVD is abandoning it and has said goodbye to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u98	By voting today, we use that power. That's what everyone's gonna consider. This debate is about Greece, not about other matters.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u99	Mr. Chairman. Over the last few weeks, we have seen how the European Union really stands. Countries and peoples are opposed to each other. Thanks to the Eurofanatics who want to make Europe a political union at a rapid pace, tensions between countries and within countries are increasing. How is it possible that a euro project, designed to bring countries closer together, will lead to more duplication and tension? The Greeks feel mangled. They are forced to cut back even harder, break down even more public facilities and sell even more public property. But also Dutch feel mangled. Over and over again, they are asked to transfer billions, not to support the Greek people, but to save European banks and financial institutions. In 2010, there was a loan of 110 billion, in 2012 of 130 billion, and now we are talking about a package of 86 billion. Despite all these loans, the Greek economy has shrunk by more than a quarter in recent years. So the medicine for Greece didn't work. In fact, the medicine for Greece has turned out to be a poison pill. We know by now that over 90% of the money for Greece did not end up with ordinary Greeks, but with German, French, Dutch and Greek banks. The agreement we are discussing is not for the benefit of the Greek people either. It is mainly a solution for the ECB and the IMF. They want to see money from Greece now. Because Greece does not have that money, the Dutch citizen may again lend Greece a loan. If the financial sector is going well, the profits will be for the banks, but in bad times the taxpayer will pay for the losses. This is how it always goes: profits are private, his audience loses. You should not look crazy when citizens have felt cheated all over Europe for five years.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u100	When Syriza and Mr. Tsipras were chosen a while ago, you couldn't take the SPs off the radio and the TV, because they were pretty much the blood brothers of the Socialist Party here in the Netherlands. What's happening today? The SP says that the package is not good enough, so we vote against such a package. In the Greek Parliament, three-quarters of all parliamentarians and even 80% of Syriza, the sister party of the SP, voted for it. What do they know less about this package than you do?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u101	I'm not in the Greek parliament. I make my assessment and I know that this package will not help the Greeks and the Greek economy. This package represents a further increase in poverty in Greece. This package represents an even further destruction of public services. This package does not help small and medium-sized enterprises in Greece. Mr Pechtold, if Greece ever wants to repay its loans, it will have to make money first; it really is. The Greeks will have to do a lot for that, I agree with you, but do not agree with a strangle agreement. I can imagine that the Greek Government and the Greek Parliament felt this as a choice between the bullet and the noose. I can even imagine from the Greek perspective that they would rather do so than leave the euro. But it's not my choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u102	With the PVV you only hear about the Netherlands, the Dutch interest and the Dutch money. What I like about the SP is that it also translates international solidarity within Europe into ordinary Greeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u103	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u104	Until now the compliment, because it now turns into a question...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u105	Well, that's too bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u106	...and the answer to it. How can the leader of the Socialist Party here say that he is not a Greek parliamentarians and that he knows better than 80% of Syrian members and 75% of the entire Greek parliament what this package means for the country? I'll take you for a ride. Of course, this is a solid package and, of course, the IMF still needs to help, but what are the alternatives? And what is the result of your vote against if that would lead to the failure of this package? That is my question to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u107	Mr Pechtold, it was not our policy to introduce a euro in countries that were not ready at the wrong time in an irresponsible way. Mr Pechtold, it was not our policy to give loans to Greece over and over again with a perspective that was not right: we would get so much money back, including interest. It was not our policy to deregulate the financial sector, creating a huge debt bubble. It was not our policy that has been cheated and cheated year in and year out of Greece. Nor was it our policy, Mr Pechtold, to force one austerity after another. Even the IMF has warned against this. At the end of the ride you ask: and what do you want? We were there in Maastricht in 1992 to say: do not do this. We warned about it when The Hunter here said we'd get the money back, including interest. We have always indicated what is needed to promote cooperation in Europe, rather than trying to enforce unity from above in Europe. It doesn't seem right either. So don't blame me for having gone completely wrong in Europe over the last few years, but blame yourself for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u108	It's not the beginning of an answer yet. It's like the big "it's not my responsibility" today. Wilders voted ahead in 2000 and walks away. The CDA says it's always voted against. The fact that it has supported everything within Europe for 14 years after that, forgets for a moment when it is in the opposition. The SP says we were always against it, so we stay against it. You're talking about the ordinary Greek. Unless you say that rejecting this agreement and a grexit does not mean that the hell breaks out in Greece and the ordinary Greek pays the bill. This solidarity could go a little further than Boxmeer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u109	Mr Pechtold talks about solidarity. He should have also arranged for the Greeks, Italians, Spanish and Portuguese to have equal opportunities in international trade. He should have avoided and even encouraged the trade surplus in the Netherlands and Germany far above the agreements. Then he should have prevented the differences from being and being so terribly large. He should have prevented a hard austerity agenda from being unleashed on those countries and the hell with poverty and unemployment. He should have avoided all this if he wanted to use the term 'European solidarity'. He would have prevented the introduction of a single currency in Europe. That could only have been the crown of an integration project that hadn't even really started. A few years ago it was said that Greece would have a debt of 120% of GDP by 2020. By now, we know that the debt is already above 200%. Do you remember that it was claimed that the country could again be financially independent this year? If that were the case, we would not have had a debate today. Do you remember that we were promised that we would get every euro back neatly, including interest? That's how the former finance minister promised us. In the meantime, we all know that a large proportion of the loans granted will not come back. In recent decades, Greek politics has been full of corruption, boyfriend politics and a worthless tax morale. It is high time that that changed. However, the troika policy of recent years has only led to a balding in Greece. Poverty has grown enormously, half of young people have no jobs and wages have decreased by 37%. Even IMF economists have openly acknowledged that they have grossly underestimated the effects of all these cuts. The accumulation of debt and austerity and the complete lack of perspective are killing the Greeks. Instead of recognizing this, the Minister increases the dose, while of course he should be looking for a medicine that does work. Moreover, European policy of injunctions has destroyed democracy. On the contrary, the Greek Government must be given the opportunity to deal with all forms of corruption and nepotism that have been rigged up by previous governments. Rich Greeks and multinationals will finally have to make a fair contribution to the Greek state treasury. There is also a task for the Prime Minister, namely to make tax constructions through letterbox companies impossible. The Greek economy must also have the opportunity to grow. So we must stop making hard cuts and investing in the real economy. That is the only way Greece can repay loans. This government is putting both the Dutch and the Greek population with its back against the wall. The Netherlands may pay a loan that the Greeks cannot bear. It is only a matter of time before we stand here again to talk about another loan to Greece. This money doesn't go to the Greeks. It goes to the banks. This is not helping the Greeks, but throwing the country back. This isn't an agreement, it's a straitjacket. A Europe in which democratic countries interact in this way is not my Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u110	Mr. Chairman. I'm a European at heart. The values and importance of Europe have always defended my party and I with great respect. This summer, however, something happened that I never thought was possible. I was deeply ashamed of Europe. I felt disgust. Europe showed itself on its ugly side. Values such as democracy, solidarity and perspective, which are important to me and to GroenLinks, were rejected by Europe. They were replaced by an agenda of clashing egos, self-interest and neoliberalism. This summer I thought: this is not my Europe; this is not a Europe that puts its weight behind it, but this is a Europe that forces one country to its knees. Now what? There is an agreement that seems to be a solution on paper, but in reality it is not. 3.5% budget surplus, when was the last time that the Netherlands succeeded? That's the question I'm asking the Prime Minister. An investment agenda is missing. The towering debts remain. The cabinet, through Minister Dijsselbloem, is keen to believe that it is pragmatic. As the Minister said a few weeks ago in the Chamber, I have now sat at the table with Greek politicians for six months and every sentence was ideologically loaded. The Minister had enough of that: Greece should look at what is really feasible. This is a way of thinking which I described as economics when I became chairman of the political group: the belief that there is only one recipe for development and progress. That belief is presented as a neutral view of the world, as pragmatism, whereas it is actually as ideological as the plague and crazy right. The pragmatism of the Minister of Finance is an alias for a tough neoliberal agenda of austerity and privatisation. Alternatives are indeed possible. The cabinet just didn't want to investigate them. It was the most rigid hardliner in Europe. However, there is still a chance to offer the Greek population a perspective, starting with debt relief. The IMF is advocating this. The cabinet wants the IMF to participate, but does not want debt relief. How will the Prime Minister unite these two wishes? Is the Prime Minister prepared to do something about debt relief and supplement the agreement on this issue? The Greek people clearly said no. I do not believe in this right-wing package of cuts, the maintenance of towering debts and mass privatisation. Nevertheless, the consideration of whether or not to support the package for GroenLinks is terribly complicated, because what is the perspective for Greece in the absence of sufficient support? The lack of a viable social alternative, given the lack of support for the Greeks in Europe, has always led us to conclude that an agreement, even though its content was not optimal, is in itself preferable to the absence of an agreement. That was always a complicated balance. This summer, that balance has been reversed. Previously an agreement was reached in good consultation with the Greek Government and with the support of the majority of the population. Europe has now opted for an agreement that has been reached with threats, based on the avoidance of loss of face, and which has been achieved with an enormous sacrifice on the part of the Greek population. This is not my Europe. This is not the way we should shape the European project together. This way of operating is not social, not solidarity and certainly not democratic. GroenLinks therefore rejects this course. That is why my group does not support the package. It is not a no to support the Greeks and it is not a no to sending money to the Greeks. Come to GroenLinks with a social package, a debt relief package, a package that costs us billions to save Greece and keep it with the European Union, and we are assured of our support. Our no is a no to the economics of Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u111	I thought it was a nice, values-driven speech by Mr Klaver, and he also ends up with 'economicism' and puts it in great perspective. I understand very well that he objects to the package on parts. Several speakers have already mentioned the involvement of the IMF and the sustainability of debt. That's right. You can also have reservations about privatisation. But at the end of the day there is something that is being supported throughout Europe and the answer is 'yes' or 'no'. Mr. Klaver says "no." If that were to be implemented 'no', what would the 'no' of the Netherlands bring Europe with it? Does that bring Mr Klaver's ideal Europe closer? I don't think so. It would mean bankruptcy of Greece. It would mean that it would derail completely. It would create poverty. I would like to point out the social conditions. In the last six months, we have seen a taste of what happens if we don't come out together. That would be the consequence of a "no." That is why I do not understand so much about the position that GroenLinks is taking here today.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u112	Earlier years there was a risk of contamination and there was enormous pressure to reach an agreement very quickly. I think there's more room now. I guess a "no" doesn't mean you're saying to the Greeks: figure it out. I think that a "no" will allow us to see if we could not take some more social steps, so that debt relief will also be part of the package. In my eyes, that space is there. The VVD thinks so, by the way. The VVD spokesperson just said: we may be able to vote against, but it will continue. Somehow there will have to be support for Greece. I want there to be a support package for Greece, but that must be a proper package. I don't want to put the knife to the throat anymore with "you have to agree now." What's the alternative? The alternative is very simple. If the Netherlands were to abandon its resistance in Europe as one of the hardliners and work for a package that offers more perspective for the Greeks, then we would be ready to give full support and send a difficult message even a much more difficult message to the Dutch people.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u113	I also always want all my ideals to be realized tomorrow and that the world looks exactly as I would like it to be. But that's not the way it is in the world, of course. And that is not how Europe works. Mr Klaver knows that very well. In the Finnish Parliament, in the German Parliament, in which everyone has their own opinion, and in the Dutch Parliament, after a great deal of pain and effort, the question is: are we in Europe in front of one Europe, in favour of this solution, in order to solve the existing problems, or are we saying, because of a reasoning, part of the package or a condition that we do not like, 'no' and let the situation collapse? GroenLinks chooses the latter. That surprises me, especially since GroenLinks has always supported all the rescue and support operations we have provided to the European countries in the past. After all, there is also a lot of support. GroenLinks really brings about a break with the past. I'm sorry about that breakup.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u114	This is the pragmatic sound that certainly does not bring us any closer to any change. If you constantly think that the world is coming down and that the world is going down if you do not take this one step and if there is only one way to keep Greece with the European Union, then you make this choice. It was also Mr Nijboer who said here: I believe in it; I believe that this package will help Greece further. I don't have that belief. I don't think it's going to help Greece. We would do well to say now: a step in the right direction. We do not think this will help Greece. I would ask the Dutch Government to change its attitude. Come back with a better package that really helps the Greeks and that ultimately Europe as a whole really strengthens! I am convinced that we will be back here in a few months, because once again this is a solution that does not work.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u115	Madam President. The prodigal son is back, the prodigal Greek son is back in the European family. I read that in a number of newspapers. I'll get warm feelings right away. Then I get a picture of a father who's on the lookout and a boy who's gone completely the wrong way, who comes back and says remorsefully and modestly "I've done it wrong, I have to choose another way," which is received again with open arms. If that is the case, then we would immediately be very warm for a form of support to Greece, but I cannot honestly discover that return of the prodigal son in the story, in the package that is now before us. I do not see that Greece is now taking a fundamentally different direction. I see that Greece was almost broke, needs new money and says: help us to move on. And yes, many firm conditions will be imposed. I also see that the Greeks themselves do not believe in that agreement, that there is open doubt about its feasibility and its chances of success. I also see that the problem that was a long time ago and that was one reason why the SGP declared itself against Greece's accession to the euro area has still not been resolved, namely the lack of earning capacity among the Greeks and the differences in the structures of the economies. In the end, despite all the firm conditions, you do nothing but paps and wets or continue on the same path, because you are afraid of the alternatives. The Greeks themselves don't believe in it, I already indicated. With the knife on their throats they say yes to the package, but what happens if there is a crisis of confidence and a new cabinet to join? So how's the package going? If it is not already openly lost, to what extent are there guarantees and guarantees that the conditions that are now imposed will not be ignored again? There are some good conditions in the package. There must be no misunderstanding about that. These are conditions designed to strengthen the structure of the Greek economy. However, there are also many measures that raise serious doubts. A specific point that we now find painfully visible is that conditions are also imposed that are sometimes not supported at all in the country itself. I mention the opening-up of shops on Sundays. This is mentioned in the fine print of the total list of conditions, but it clearly affects the authority of the country itself. We have mentioned this before and now we see that fortunately it is no longer in the terms itself, but the memorandum of understanding still states that it will be mandatory to open the shops on Sundays from 2016. Is that right? Or are we reading that wrong? I hope the latter. Can't that temporary exception become a permanent exception? Does the government want to make a commitment to this? Finally, a question about an extremely important loose end to the package. Others also talked about the IMF's participation. Is the government still in favour of an agreement that the IMF's participation is crucial? What's the perspective on that right now? Finalising: the SGP will not support this package. We do not believe that it is enough to create confidence that the real problems will be solved in this way. We also believe that solutions need to be found just outside the euro area.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u116	Mr. Chairman. The umpteenth election vow of the VVD has been added to the garbage. Money goes back to the banks and to financial institutions to help Greece. The third support package should serve two main objectives. Ensuring confidence in the European monetary union and strengthening its credibility, and providing Greece with a prospect of a sustainable growth path for the economy and public finances, so that it can become a full and stable member of EMU. Even after the memorandum of understanding has been drawn up, 50PLUS still seriously doubts whether these central objectives will be served by the proposed third aid package. With this bizarrely ambitious and unprecedentedly heavy package of reform and austerity, it seems completely uncertain whether these and future Greek governments will or will be able to keep to the commitments made. History so far doesn't give us any hope. The envisaged financial mega-injection of 36 billion...... but actually it is 92 billion, so fears 50PLUS... is another shot in the dark. The 50 billion trust fund, the cornerstone of the agreement, may turn out to be a rather empty shell, as former Finance Minister Onno Ruding warned. Let me repeat once again: 98.3% of monetary union is functioning well. Only Greece, less than 2% of the euro area economy, has so far been trying structurally to evade European accepted financial and economic rules. What reason do we have to give the country our trust now? There is a new agreement, supported by a dubious and shaky Greek political and social mandate. That's asking for trouble. 50PLUS doesn't see any guarantee that this package doesn't turn back on depositing money into a bottomless pit, which at most makes some banks better. We ask the cabinet to believe in fairy tales. How blind is the confidence of this cabinet in the feasibility of about the entire Greek society and all its institutions in just a few years? How realistic are the estimates in this provisional agreement, from a contraction of 2.3% of gross domestic product in 2015 to a growth of 3.5% in 2018? That is wishful thinking and air cycling of the highest order, especially for a country where heavy measures are making the financial screws even harder. Greece, which is now fully financially and economically viable, will have to spend 12% to 15% of gross domestic product annually on debt repayment between 2015 and 2030. And does the cabinet really think that the IMF is going to contribute if there is so much uncertainty about the sustainability of Greek public debt and if there is absolutely no question of debt cancellation in European law? That debt amounts to around 102%. Should Greece be allowed 100 years to pay off debts? Is that realistic? We ask for a detailed explanation of why the cabinet welcomes this agreement and what guarantees the cabinet sees for success. Will the loan maturity required by the IMF be supported for 60 years? From an economic point of view, this amounts to a remission of 55% to 75%. Is the cabinet going to rule out a fourth aid package? I really want to know the answer to that question! With this third package of aid, we do not serve the credibility and stability of EMU. At most we buy time for another debacle, another billion. How can the cabinet so lightly enter a black hole of 5 billion and at the same time give more vulnerable groups in our own society, such as the elderly and those with benefits, not the purchasing power development and care they deserve? Today, we read in the newspaper that 3 million elderly people avoid care because of their large fall in purchasing power. Isn't the Dutch shirt closer than the Greek skirt? We don't understand. A guided grexit with sufficient humanitarian support for the population seems 50PLUS, all in all, more sensible. This will allow Greece to look forward to a sustainable and realistic growth path in the long term. The important question is and remains: do we choose in the Greek drama a painful end to horrors or painful horrors without end?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u117	Mr. Chairman. As a perpetual mobile, the European apparatus crawls on, sustaining itself with a declining energy, averse to reason, averse to rational and sensible thinking. This is how the Greek drama continues. Europe's leaders allow us to swing between the high point, the great crisis, and the promised turnaround over and over again. However, we seem to be heading towards a catastrophe. What a madness! Once again, there is a support package. However, can we actually call this support? The average Greek daily suffers the consequences of the demands of its European leaders. They are proud of their breasts and enjoy this wonderful experiment. This is survival of the fittest or, rather, survival of the richest. Darwin can be proud. It makes little sense to keep throwing money in a pit that we help dig out at the same time. We have to look at ourselves honestly. We must dare to ask ourselves the difficult questions. Do we want to make the pit deeper, or do we want to effectively close the pit? I'm asking the Prime Minister if debt relief, debt forgiveness or partial debt forgiveness are options. At least you don't create expectations. If these options are not available, will the Prime Minister come back at a later date to say that this is the only option to reinvigorate the Greek economy so that Greece can invest again and the economy can grow again? One of the reasons why this situation continues is the half-heartedness of the European dream. We'll do it together, but we won't. At the same time, we are compulsively trying to save the euro. At some point, that knot is really going to be cut. Are we really going to do it together, by creating a genuine European economic governance? Or are we gonna disarm the place? Can the Prime Minister explain how he sees it? I shall conclude with an observation. In the developed Europe, which has appointed itself as the centre of civilisation, the European gentlemen have succeeded in creating a safe haven for new economic experiments. It is a safe haven for the determination of the flexibility of a whole population and for the racket of the average citizen. It is a question of cutting and gripping operations, but it is still a question of what interests they serve. This is imperialism 2.0 where democracy was once invented. This is deeply and deeply sad.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u118	Mr. Chairman. The Greeks are having a hard time. Now there is a third package in which people are trying to make us believe that it is going to help the Greeks. The VVD says about the 86 billion we're going to spend on taxpayers: well, we're spending the money and we're just hoping for the best. So much for the financial responsibility that the VVD always claims to take so seriously. However, I think that today's most beautiful explanation came from the spokesman of the Labour Party. He called the package "a basis for perspective." Really, a basis for perspective? How far are we going? Are we going to spend money with the possibility of a basis for perspective? Or are we going to ask the taxpayer to give us a mandate to spend his money with the possibility of a basis for perspective? I imagine today's finance minister hasn't looked so cheerful in box K. This is, of course, not taking responsibility for spending Dutch and European taxpayers' money. Are we also doing this in other policy areas? No, I've never seen that before, and it's never been shown before. The General Court of Auditors would cut our decisions if we did so. Then why are we doing it now? All this is happening in order not to have to admit that the introduction of the euro, of a currency union between countries with very different economic rhythms, has been the greatest monetary experiment in history, and above all that it has failed. Is this a package of support for the Greeks? I wish! The package costs a lot of money, but it doesn't solve any problems. If you cannot pay off your debts, you will not be helped by new debts to pay the accrued interest. Everyone knows that. Then why are we doing it? What you often see when someone gets sucked into financial trouble is that someone else has an interest in it. In the past, mainly German, Dutch and French banks have lent large sums to the Greeks. That was very lucrative, because the Greeks had to pay a high interest rate of around 12.5%, because there was a risk premium of almost 10%. Greece has got into a lot of trouble with this. If you think that now the European Member States are trying to get rid of the Greeks, you are very disappointed to conclude that the European Union's rescuers are trying to save the German, French and Dutch banks in particular, rather than the Greek population. The Greek people are deeply affected by the debt addiction imposed by the country from Europe. The Animal Party has always opposed the granting of new loans to Greece and is doing so again today. Greece has not been helped with new debt, but only debt, and unfortunately, this hurts with drastic debt restructuring. Just as you don't give credit cards to someone who is bankrupt, you shouldn't burden a country with towering debts with even more debts, especially if they amount to financial support for banks and not for citizens. The citizens of Greece suffer from a European policy which deprives them of their own economic and political control, which has wiped out medical care in the country and which has ensured that Greece has fallen to the begging staff, has to sell public property to the highest bidder and that the cradle of democracy has been completely placed under European curate, while democratic control of European institutions leaves at its best to be desired, not to say impossible. And that is when the euro crisis was not caused in Athens, but by irresponsible opportunism from northern EU countries. Since the troika has acted as a combination of a pawn shop owner, a loan shark and a bailiff, there is no room for man, nature and the environment in Greece. The Animal Party has argued and is doing so again today in favour of an approach aimed at people and not at banks, in which, through debt restructuring, we give Greece a real perspective on a healthy society, which is not about enforcing privatisations, but about building a healthy, sustainable economy that is not destroyed by our own aggressive export economy and which is considering ways of helping Greece get its own economy back in order, such as a well-prepared Grexit, should Greece choose to do so. Moreover, we have always opposed the undemocratic ESM in which citizens and parliaments are excluded. The fact that the conditions for this third large aid package are not made public until they have been leaked in Germany is a mistake! 40% of Greek children live below the poverty line. Let us understand that for a moment today. Greeks die because they have no access to basic medical care. And we are not only spectators of this Greek tragedy, but we are also part of it as long as we refuse to correct the fundamental mistakes in the European project. That is why the Party for Animals cannot take responsibility for the package that is now before us. It brings us and the Greeks the most true of the rain in the drip.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u119	Mr. Chairman. From "not a penny to the Greeks" to 86 billion extra to the Greeks. Thank you, VVD! Thank you for all the broken promises, time and time again. The Rutte II cabinet is a disaster for the Netherlands. For this cabinet, our national interest is subordinate to the European ideal. Our Prime Minister is part of an EU elite that the Greeks want to keep inside at all costs. The collapse of Greece would be the demise of their dream of a European superstate. The counter for Greece stands at 326 billion after the third aid package. 326 billion! And what's in it for you? Nothing at all. Greece is a ruin. The EU elite has bought time again. Again, it is not a structural solution. Again it continues to muddle. In a while, we're gonna be back here again, billions poorer. The cabinet considers further support from the IMF to be crucial, but it will not be the case that the cabinet meets the IMF requirement to cancel Greek debts? I'd like to get a reaction to this. The euro project is a historic failure. From the beginning, it had to be the prelude to a political union. The euro was a political project from the outset and later the so-called economic benefits were sought. More than half of the Dutch want Greece to leave the euro area. That's not for nothing. As Nigel Farage said recently, the euro is the new Berlin Wall. The single currency does not lead to connectedness but to division. Just as the wall was broken down, also the demolition bullet through the current, perverse currency union, must begin with a grexit. The EU elite has been fooling itself for years, while every sane person has long seen the inevitable implosion of the euro and the EU coming. Let us put an end to this Greek tragedy as soon as possible. Greece must leave the euro area.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u120	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Chamber for its extensive first-term contributions. We will try to do justice to this in our response. The Minister of Finance will answer a number of questions about, for example, the position of the International Monetary Fund, the issue of debt, its sustainability and other specific financial aspects of the package. I would like to share with the Chamber the political considerations that led to the establishment of the cabinet and government in the European debate on this support package.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u121	Mr Wilders has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u122	Yeah, I have a serious question. Does the Prime Minister understand that the PVV and a lot of Dutch people think that he should not have been standing where he is now? Do you understand that you have actually broken all possible promises, whether it was that €1,000 for every working person in the Netherlands, whether it was "not with that terrible PvdA, the enemy," whether it was a stricter asylum policy or your statement that there would be no more penny for the Greeks? With these promises, you won the election, you won 41 seats and you became Prime Minister. Do you understand that on all these important issues, you just cheated on the voter? If you had told the truth, you wouldn't be standing there right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u123	Politics requires taking responsibility. That certainly applies to a prime minister. So I always have the Dutch interest to weigh. Mr Wilders wants to remind me that I broke my specific promise that there would be no more money for the Greeks. I admit that. That didn't work out. The situation is completely different from what I estimated in 2012. Mr Wilders also knows that you have to take responsibility in politics and that a promise is not sustainable. Mr Wilders himself has given the necessary examples in his political career. That's how politics works. That's the inevitable. You'll have a lot of explaining to do after that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u124	This isn't one of them, it's a whole laundry list. If it was one, I could say it was part of it, but you broke four or five promises. You weren't going to rule with the Labour Party. You would give €1,000 to workers, but they are still waiting for that. You wanted a strict asylum policy, but we're being flooded by an asylum system. And then the Greeks you wouldn't give a penny to. Mr. Prime Minister, you lied to the Tower. If you're a guy, you admit it. Then you say: I would never have won the election if I had said that you didn't get that €1,000 and that I would pay money to the Greeks again; now I stop. That would please you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u125	In politics, like I said, you have to take responsibility. That means that sometimes things run differently than you could have anticipated at some point. I refer to Mr Wilders, who said on the election evening in 2010 that the age of AOW would not go up, while one day later he admitted that, in order to work with CDA and VVD, he was forced to work on raising the age of AOW. That's how things go sometimes. Well, you'll have to explain. Mr Wilders did that. I'll do that here. I can look the Dutch right in the eyes. Yes, it has not been possible to honour that promise because of specific circumstances, which I am so keen to go into. That's part of the political work. In the end, we are all in the country's interest to do the right things. Especially as Prime Minister, that's my job.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u126	The Prime Minister says it happens sometimes in politics. No, that's how it's supposed to be and that's not how it's supposed to be in politics. Maybe that's how it goes in the politics of the VVD, which goes into the elections every time with great promises. That people believe in times of crisis that they get €1,000, I leave it to them, but Greece, Europe and monetary union are complex problems. As a political leader and certainly as a prime minister, you have a responsibility to tell a story and not to throw sand in your eyes. You can't look that voter in the eye straight at all, because you've poured sand into it with promises. When we were asked whether we would go to extremes to save the euro and the European economy, so not even Greece, only Mr Wilders and Mr Rutte pressed the red button. The Prime Minister did so in the knowledge that he would, whenever, be full of teeth. Today it's here. That's not how it works in my politics. That's the way it is in your politics, throwing voters in the face. I'd like to have a reflection on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u127	Mr Pechtold uses great words. However, I ask him to look back at the situation in 2012. A second aid package had just been agreed with Greece and the Greeks were in the process of implementing it. In the years that followed, it appeared that they were successful in doing so. In the summer of last year the Greeks had to deal with a primary surplus in the budget. Everything went in the right direction. Mr Pechtold knows very well that the 2012 context was one in which there was no expectation whatsoever that a new support package would have to be put in place. If he asks me if I can keep that promise now, I just gave him the answer. It is now clear that it is possible for the Greek Government to do so much damage that a package of aid is needed again. Mr Pechtold knows that in 2012 no human being could have reasonably seen such a situation occur. In fact, two years later, the Greeks showed that by keeping to the agreements they were able to achieve a primary surplus. In the end, we are asked to take positions and include statements, including in campaigns. I cannot hold on to this, but Mr Pechtold also knows that it is necessary in politics to assume your responsibilities.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u128	That's not how politics works. This is just political bottle-screwing. That question was asked to every list leader and every political leader. It was Wilders and Rutte who said to the people because of short political gain: no, this is a wrong choice and we will never do anything for the Greeks and the European economy again. That was the situation, while four others bothered to argue why this was necessary. So you can choose. Was this political bottle pulling or was it a very naive institution about the major problems in Europe? That last accusation seems even worse for a sitting Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u129	I was fully involved in the situation with Greece in the two years before that campaign as Prime Minister. Just before the cabinet arrived, political agreement had been reached on a support package. In 2011 and 2012, the need to support the Greeks again appeared. This involved large sums of money with important framework conditions, which the Greeks were laying down. Everything pointed out that they would do the same. To be honest, it went well until the summer of last year. It also had the necessary effects. Greece had the necessary growth again, was getting out of the crisis and was on the eve of its return to the financial markets. It has been shown that a government can do damage. The difference between Mr Pechtold and myself in that campaign was that I had sat at that table and had been involved in these negotiations from day to day. I really did make it quite sincere that Mr Pechtold may doubt the assessment I made in that debate. Turns out, things have turned out differently. Of course, I take responsibility for that. However, I made that assessment sincere. I therefore cast the blames that are echoed in Mr Pechtold's speech far from mine.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u130	For this Prime Minister, there are two worlds. After elections, there's a world in which he takes responsibility. But for the Prime Minister, there is also a world before the elections, and then, apparently, we talk out of our necks. That's the difference. But before elections, a prime minister must also assume his responsibilities. The question then was not whether he thought there would be a third aid package. The question was: what do you do when the Greeks ask a question? So there has already been anticipating. The Prime Minister said, "I'll say no." So it is not at all true that it was not foreseeable. The question was what he would do if it came to that. That brings me to the next question. This is now the third package. If it doesn't work, what does the Prime Minister say? Is it conceivable or not to rule out the possibility of a fourth package? Or does he say: The Netherlands, after this third package it is also done once.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u131	First, on Mr Buma's introduction. There are so many inaccuracies in that. I have just tried to demonstrate this in response to Mr Pechtold. All these assumptions don't add up. It turns out that a government is capable of causing damage in a country. That is also an answer to Mr Buma's question at the end. So you have to be more careful with these kind of statements than I was in the 2012 campaign. I've admitted that, too. But no human being who at that time was closely involved in the Greek situation could take it into account in the extreme. I say this in all sincerity that there would be a need for new aid to the Greeks. In fact, the years after that showed that Greece was able to emerge step by step from the crisis. We've all been able to establish that with each other here, and that was good news.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u132	Does the Prime Minister regret his promise then?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u133	I have already said that I find it extremely annoying not to be able to keep a promise. That's far from pleasant, but I'll take responsibility. It can't be that when situations change, I don't do the right things in the national interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u134	The Prime Minister again says he's taking responsibility. In fact, he says: don't believe me before the elections, because then I make these strange promises and then I take responsibility again after the elections. That is not possible, because this Prime Minister's credible policy would have been that he had also taken responsibility for the elections.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u135	Mr Buma could also choose to listen to my reaction and respond to it if necessary. At least that is what Mr Pechtold did. I do not hear Mr Buma do that. I would like to outline to him the situation in which we found ourselves in the election campaign and the facts that led me to a genuine answer to that statement in that debate. That's what happens in campaigns.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u136	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u137	Mr. Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u138	Mr. Chairman. I would like to comment on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u139	Yeah, but you've had a third time. So I'd like to see Mr. Klaver now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u140	Don't go away now, Mr. Rutte. Don't go away, Prime Minister. You're now trying to justify something that can't really be said right. The question asked during that debate was not: how do you expect the situation to develop in Greece? The question wasn't: do you think it's necessary? No, the question was: what if the Greeks call, what if support is needed; do you then transfer that money? And the answer of this Prime Minister, the leader of the VVD, was: then we do not transfer that money. He has done so knowingly and afterwards he uses beautiful words as a responsibility and comes back to your steps. But the question asked at the time was not about making an assessment of the situation; the question was: what if a new aid package is needed again? The answer to this Prime Minister's question was: I will not transfer the money. Well, then you can't try to make that right now, can you?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u141	In response to Mr Klaver, I repeat that he may hold on to his assumption that I did what I did there for the reason he thinks. I'll give you the answer that was there. I'm pointing out what happened after that. Only a year ago Greece was doing so well that there was economic growth, growing employment, falling unemployment. Public finances and public debt came to an end step by step on the basis of the two aid packages that were at the time. The fact is that a great deal of damage has been done and that it is therefore necessary to give aid again and therefore I cannot maintain the electoral promise.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u142	This is the hog. This is trying to let it slip away like Tefal. This was not the question raised in the RTL debate. It was not asked: how is it going to develop and could it be that money will have to be paid out later? Then the Prime Minister would have been absolutely right. Then he could have said, "I made the wrong assessment." But it wasn't about that. It was a question of whether the Prime Minister, Mr Rutte, when Mr Rutte, agreed to it regardless of the circumstances, should there be an additional package of aid for Greece. Then he said, "No, I don't." He hit that red button. Then he can't come up with the fact that circumstances have changed? Nothing's changed at all. Nothing's changed. The question that was asked at the time is: are you prepared to give support? Today it appears that the Prime Minister is prepared to do so. Then he shouldn't try to make it prettier afterwards than it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u143	Mr Klaver also knows that this question was not put in such a debate in isolation from perhaps someday money should go to Cyprus or France? That was in the context of the fact that at that time two aid packages had been agreed with the Greeks, that the Greeks were in the process of implementing the aid packages, which had now led to better results. We have seen that Greece, two years later in the summer of 2014, was less than a year ago, almost able to return to the financial markets itself. That was the situation. In that context, I answered that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u144	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u145	No, Mr. Chairman, I was still working on it. I would like to give the answer to Mr Klaver. He's entitled to that. In that context, I answered that question. It is true that there has been a major damage to the Greek economy. This leads to a new situation where it is necessary to re-establish aid to the Greeks. That is not the way I can make that statement in the debate, but I find it really too cheap and too easy and not appropriate for Mr Klaver to the level at which he is debating in order to give this impression here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u146	If anyone here is doing cheap politics, it's this prime minister. Come on! There were other group chairmen, list leaders, who answered the question in the same debate with: no, I cannot rule that out; I do not know how the political situation is going to develop; I do not know what the situation is like in Greece. There was a whole debate following that list-leader debate, precisely because we knew that this Prime Minister could not keep this promise. I care about the way he's trying to make it right. It's unspeakable. The Prime Minister made a big mistake. It is a big mistake because it ultimately puts the credibility of politics at risk. People think: those people in The Hague, whether they are called Rutte or Roemer or Pechtold or Klaver, are full of shit; in the end they never keep their promise. That's damaging to all of us. So not what I do is cheap, but what Mr Rutte does is cheap.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u147	I give my attempt to take away the assumptions that Mr Klaver and others have made now. I can't do that, as it shows. After all, Mr Klaver insists on his analysis. In all honesty, I give my answer and express the context in which I gave that answer in that debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u148	Repeating this three, four or five times does not make the Prime Minister more credible. Let's go back to that period. Why did that question come up? It didn't fall out of the sky. This was not so much due to the fact that there had already been two aid packages, but to the fact that international economists predicted that these aid packages would not work. The differences in economy, culture and tax ethic between north and south, between Greece and the north, were incompatible with what was on the table. So it was waiting for another support package. That's why we had that discussion back then. So it didn't fall out of the sky. This Prime Minister knows that well. Acknowledging that this was not foreseen is therefore a different proposal than it was at the time. It only makes the Prime Minister more unbelievable. However, my question is as follows. It is the same question as Mr Buma's question that he did not want to answer. There is a great chance that we will be back here in a few months, because the IMF will not participate, because the economy is not attracted or for any reason. Does the Prime Minister exclude us from the debate on a fourth package?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u149	We now know what damage a government can do in such a country. You can't guarantee that. There is no reason at the moment to accept that, but there is no guarantee of that. Mr Roemer's story is not valid. If what Mr Roemer says were true, would Greece not be working on all fronts in 2014 to get out of the crisis so that, with the difficult measures taken, it could finally be on its own? I just sketched it. So it turned out to be working. I immediately acknowledge that there has always been doubt among all kinds of international experts as to whether this was the right approach, but it turned out to be working. It turned out to be working two years later. That went so far that all the economic indicators were now in the right direction. After that, major damage was done.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u150	First of all, I am pleased that the Prime Minister is now simply saying clearly that he cannot rule out the possibility of a fourth package. In any case, let us establish this with each other. That shows again why it is important not to do it today. Then the second. The new government cannot do the damage this prime minister suggests in two or five months. Moreover, economic growth in Greece was higher in the second quarter of this year than in the Netherlands. It is the corrupt Greek governments of the past fifteen or twenty years who have been responsible for corruption, for nepotism and for the economy of the past. Let me also remind the Prime Minister that the former Minister of Finance of Greece was even described by the IMF as a corrupt finance minister. And then the Prime Minister dares to say: it went well. In the last quarter of 2014, under the previous cabinet, the economy in Greece decreased. Once again, why has the Prime Minister deliberately misrepresented the effects of aid packages, and is he doing so again today, when there is another one on the table?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u151	This analysis by Mr Roemer is also wrong. Why was there growth in the second quarter? Because the Greeks had taken so much money from the bank and eventually invested it in new cars and such things, also for fear of the state of affairs in the country. If that's the way out of the economic crisis that the SP is going to lead, you better get out of here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u152	That wasn't the beginning of an answer. I understand, because you don't have an answer. In the meantime, however, you are proving that it works when investing in a country's real economy, such as a company is going to invest in good things, so that it can then make a profit. You also prove that tough cuts in the economy, in small and medium-sized enterprises in Greece, only lead to greater unemployment and debt, and do not help the Greeks, the Netherlands and Europe. But keep believing in your fairy tales. We'll see you here again in a few months.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u153	It is precisely the opposite: Greece has shown that a country that is taking difficult measures is going to grow again. I would like to draw your attention to the figures for the summer of last year. This is also how the Dutch economy is currently showing strong growth, and it has not been cut short, as Mr Roemer had predicted us. The Netherlands is also growing because, under the leadership of this cabinet, we are working to put public finances back in order and because all the people in the Netherlands have put their backs into it at a very difficult time. Mr Roemer is also wrong, and I just outlined that, but he didn't go into this because the second quarter's growth comes precisely from a policy that you don't want, namely that people are so panicked that they're taking their money off the bank and they're gonna end up putting it in sustainable goods, when that wasn't their intention at the time. So there was no confidence in the Greek economy in the second quarter. If that's Mr. Roemer's road to economic growth, you'd better get out of here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u154	I think it's quite painful, but on the other hand it's brave to just admit that you've been wrong if you made a promise that you shouldn't have. However, what I do not understand from the Prime Minister is that he is now creating, in this debate, the atmosphere that he made that promise at the time on substantive grounds, when we all know that he made that promise on electoral grounds. Why doesn't he just admit it honestly and openly? Then we can put an end to that and we can continue to debate the content.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u155	Apparently, he trusts his guests.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u156	I'm asking the Prime Minister to explain that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u157	Apparently this is the way Mr Slob looks at campaigns. I have already explained it five or six times: the context in which I answered that question, in that debate; how the Greek economy developed afterwards, and that this showed in every respect that there was no need for a third aid package at all. In fact, even after the Tsipras government took office, even after all the damage it had done, it was, in our opinion, still possible until May or June this year to get out by a proper conclusion of the second aid programme. Eventually, the damage became so great that we had to look at a larger package. That's why I couldn't keep the election promise. That is a substantive argument. Mr Slob starts by assuming that I did what I did for electoral reasons. He can find that. I may not be allowed to convince him, but I'll give you the answer I give.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u158	Why did I say that? At the time, we were standing there with eight list drivers. I was one of them. Another list puller was Mr. Wilders, who pushed the red button. From that moment on, that was also his way of dealing with Greece: not a penny or euro anymore to Greece. He's pretty consistent with that to this day. You then chose that particular position; an electorally interesting one, we know. All the other group chairmen did not do so for various reasons. My conviction was clear: we were against the aid packages, we did not want any more money to go to Greece. But at that time, also on the basis of the facts, you could not rule out that this would come back very quickly, because the situation was still very uncertain. Hence my analysis of what you did then. That was for electoral reasons, just admit it. But now, above all, go and work to restore your credibility, which has been compromised. I ask the Prime Minister: how are you going to do that now, after all that has passed?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u159	Again, I accept that Mr Slob is analysing why I am doing what I am doing. I think it is my right in this debate to outline the context in which I have done what I have done and why I have done it, also in view of the way the Greek economy has developed over the years. I would like to point out once again that this second package of aid had been delivered just before that debate, just before the election campaign. This had a large scale, with far-reaching reform obligations. Greece was in the process of implementing this. In the years that followed, we have seen that this has led to lively economic growth, improvement of public finances and no need for additional aid packages. It actually did not go wrong until last summer when the Greek Government stopped further implementing it. Should I have foreseen that? Apparently, in hindsight. That's why I'm saying I couldn't keep that election promise. That does not alter the fact that I did it on substantive and sincere grounds. Mr Slob may think what he thinks of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u160	It is clear that it is increasingly about the reliability of the Prime Minister. Every time he tries to talk his way out of everything with a nice story. Just now, the Greek people were blamed for investing money and buying durable goods with its money. May I remind the Prime Minister that, when we were in the middle of the crisis, he said on television: 'Dear Dutch, buy a car'? What's the difference?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u161	There's a very big difference. In 2013, after concluding the social agreement, I said that this was proof that institutions in the Netherlands, trade unions, employers' organisations and public administration were able to take difficult measures in difficult times, in crises, should people doubt that. I said to the people who doubted it and who thereby delayed certain purchases: look at what is possible today. It was the night of the social agreement, in April 2013. I said, if this is the reason for you to postpone certain expenses, see here the proof that it is not necessary for that reason. This is a very different situation from that in Greece, where people, out of distrust of the functioning of public administration and public institutions, decided to bring out purchases. That is a completely different situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u162	That's not another situation. That same distrust was present in the Netherlands and is still there. The same mistrust is based on the fact that the policy of hard cuts and lower purchasing power year in, year out is devastating. Even IMF economists say they've underestimated it tremendously. So the situation is exactly the same. In the Netherlands, it is advocated that an expensive car be bought quickly, because the euros have to roll. Then another country is blamed for that. The longer the Prime Minister talks, the more his credibility is put to the test.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u163	We all knew that when Greece decided to stay in the euro in 2010, it would have to devalue within the euro area. In other words, it had to make far-reaching adjustments to the economic system. This, of course, also has a major impact on society. That's inevitable. If you choose to stay in the euro area, you will eventually have to come back to a growth path step by step. That's the only route. This proved to be the case in the summer of 2014. If you look at the numbers, you'll see that Greece was on the way back.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u164	It's a bit of a bad defense if it turns out it's all wrong. What's the defense? Buma, Slob, Pechtold and Roemer didn't know what happened when they voted and pushed that green button. Only Rutte knew then, and today everyone knows how to measure. Because he knew better. He really couldn't have foreseen it otherwise. Well, Prime Minister, three months later, it was your Minister of Finance who said here in the Chamber on 4 December that we could not exclude anything from the Greeks. Your own cabinet, I assume, spoke with one voice.................................................................................................................. So it didn't go that well. I guess all the others weren't that crazy. From Roemer to Pechtold and from Slob to Buma; everyone was wondering: will we throw the voter sand in the eyes or will we honestly say that it is very complicated, the European economy, the currency, the Greeks? But no, it was political bottle pulling. That's to be expected from Wilders, but not from a prime minister. Be honest. You weren't just in your league! You were just talking the voter to the mouth.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u165	The fact that I was not only in agreement shows that it was ultimately necessary to reach a third aid package. That is why we are here, and that is why we have this debate. If Mr Pechtold wishes to hear from me one more time that I failed to keep that electoral promise, he is right. I would like to outline the context in which these elections took place after the conclusion of the second aid package. In the meantime, a further 130 billion was committed for Greece, which was in the process of implementing the agreements. In the years that followed, we saw that Greece was trying to get out of that crisis. That's the evidence I'm putting forward. I would like to draw particular attention to the situation just before the Greek Government stopped implementing the measures in the summer of last year: all the economic indicators in Greece were positive at that time. That was the situation. I'm not taking anybody's weight here. I just outline what my context was and what my substantive consideration was, although people here think I had all kinds of other considerations, to do what I did.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u166	It wasn't a promise, it was a political stump, just like that €1,000 and the statement: let a 13-year-old but die in Syria instead of bringing him here to the rule of law. That's the kind of shit it was. It fell into that category. Three months later, the Minister of Finance, who apparently did see it, also on behalf of the Prime Minister, who now says that this is not the case, says he is breaking the unity of government policy.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... That was three months after that. It was a stump, a run, a race to the ballot box: soon to throw some sand in the eyes of those last voters, who find Europe quite complicated and find it quite difficult to understand it all. Can the Prime Minister say three years later that he can look them straight in the eye? No way!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u167	Mr Pechtold came to this debate with an absolute conviction of the context in which that electoral promise was made in 2012. It is now clear that I do not succeed in convincing him of my intentions. I refer to all my previous answers, which I believe are consistent and also provided with the necessary evidence, to explain why I did what I did, while admitting that in 2015 a third support package turned out to be necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u168	The Prime Minister is talking about taking evidence. He states that he really knew what the situation was like in Greece and that a package of aid was not really obvious. How then is it that the new Finance Minister has not indicated three months after the elections that this could not be ruled out? In fact, a six months before the September 2012 elections, Minister Jan Kees de Jager said in a debate in the House of Representatives: it cannot be ruled out that there should be a third aid package. At that time, the cabinet itself indicated that it could not be ruled out that such a package should be made available. Then how can the Prime Minister insist that he really didn't know, that all signals were green and that it wasn't necessary? Then he's not really telling the truth, is he?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u169	I refer to all my previous answers on this point. Mr Klaver is running away; he apparently wants to check those previous answers. I'll explain it again. The 2012 context was as follows: A second support package had just been agreed. The Greeks turned out to be working on that. I had to complain about the question of what answer I would give, according to my substantive conviction. Mr Klaver thinks that all kinds of other reasons played a role, but I leave that to him. I am merely expressing my belief in the substance of this campaign in order to give that answer at that time. I have shown how the Greek situation has developed over the years. Even until April, May of this year, we thought we could come to an end with a proper conclusion of the second aid package, but after the Greek referendum the situation had deteriorated so much that it was necessary to look at a larger package for the next three years. This did not prove my electoral promise to be sustainable. That was the context in which I acted in 2012. Mr Klaver may ask whether I should not have taken this into account and whether I should not have involved it, and he may say that I am taking people's measure, but I am not taking anyone's measure here. I simply describe to my fellow politicians in the Lower House, who think they know exactly what was going on in a colleague's head, what was going on in my head.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u170	The Prime Minister has prepared his defense well. He keeps repeating his words. However, I am trying to refute a piece of his evidence here. I would point out that the Finance Minister said in March 2012: there is a good chance that a third rescue package will be needed to keep Greece alive. That's what a member of this Prime Minister's cabinet says. Then how can the Prime Minister insist that in September of that year, at the elections, he did not know that we might have to save Greece again? How's he gonna keep that up? Then his finance minister did not speak the truth, he was not aware, or did he not speak the truth in that debate and we are not hearing it again today.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u171	In that debate, given the complex of facts as it was, I replied to that statement. I did so after a substantive consideration. I have looked with my campaign team, with my people in the party, at the question: what are the facts, what is the decent answer we can give? And in the years after, the Greek economy, in part in the context of the second aid package, was recovering to an important extent.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u172	Let me put the question even shorter. Was the Prime Minister aware that Minister of Finance Jan Kees de Jager had ruled six months before that election that a third package of aid could not be ruled out? Was he aware of that, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u173	No doubt, because we shared everything with each other. But that was a completely different situation. The discussion on that whole second aid package began in the summer of 2011. In October 2011, the contours were struck and that support package did not come around until the course of 2012. And it was only after that that we were given the first proof of whether that aid package was indeed... Mr Klaver, do you want to hear the answer? Okay... or the support package actually...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u174	Stop playing tricks!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u175	Well, do you want to hear the answer or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u176	I certainly want to hear the answer, but stop playing tricks! Stop saying, "Do you want to hear the answer?"
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u177	Yeah, okay. But then there's no point in me moving on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u178	I think so. Go on! I'm just saying I'm not going into those tricks. Do you want to hear it? Don't you want to hear it? What kind of bullshit is that? I'm trying to ask some serious questions here. Then get in there!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u179	If you ask a serious question that I am seriously trying to answer, it would help if you at least give the impression of listening to it. I'll continue with the answer. Then, in those months afterwards, it became clear that the aid package was being implemented well. Against that background, I have made the assessment to give the answer to that question as I have given it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u180	I would like to go further on this point. The Prime Minister says that we shared everything in the cabinet, so I must say that the Minister of Finance said six months before that election that a third package of aid could not be ruled out. How, then, does he maintain the statement that, given the context and the circumstances, it was not reasonable for a new aid package to be needed? Then why wasn't that interrupting? I'm asking this Prime Minister. You can't keep that up, can you?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u181	Because of the answer I just gave, namely that we were six months away by now, that we were so many months ahead and there were now things coming to implementation. I would like to point out once again how Greece stood in 2014. Again, if Mr. Klaver wants to get me to say "finally you couldn't keep that deal," he's right. This is demonstrated by the fact that we are having this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u182	It is annoying that we have to talk about 2012 and the Prime Minister is also very irritated about this, but he has to know that for himself, but he is still trying to put his statements of that time in a completely different context. Everyone understands in what context those statements were made at the time. A prime minister can't do that now. He says that he and his campaign team made purely substantive considerations for that debate in Carré and that no electoral consideration played a role. I find it hard to say that, but I can't believe it. Those are the electoral debates. The Prime Minister should not be ashamed of that, but he must be honest. Don't say, "That was some kind of policy night." That was a debate night. And that's where the Prime Minister chose to make a statement. And that was a purely political statement. My point is this. It was not the question: do you think there will be another package? The Prime Minister was right to say no to that. The question was: if that question comes up, what do you do? And then Mr Rutte said, when that question comes, I say "no." The question comes, and the Prime Minister says yes. And that's not rhymeable, especially in the context of that whole content story and I know what.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u183	We fall into repetitions. I am not annoyed about that, by the way, because I understand very well that we are having this debate together. And I appreciate that, too. No way! I really try to serve everyone well and answer the questions that are asked here. But this question by Mr Buma again shows that he is convinced of what I intended to do and of the context in which it happened. Of course it was an election campaign. It was an election debate. It wasn't a Second Chamber debate. There was a theorem that asked for a sharp choice. Of course. Mr Buma is right about that from a to z. And then what you do is, looking at the whole evidence, given the views of the parties and your own party, determine how you choose in such a debate at that time. I'm here to outline the background against which I made that choice. There was a second support package which was now gradually coming to full maturity. And we also saw over the years that until the summer of last year the Greek Government held on to a reasonable degree and that this gave rise to positive effects. I do not think that the provision of additional support for the Greeks in 2012 was relevant.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u184	I am going to repeat the quote of that time, because now the Prime Minister has to explain why the entire rest of the Chamber sees it so wrong. The question to the Prime Minister, to the then leader of the VVD, was: "Not a penny more to Greece?" Rutte: "That's how it is," and then he says, "Then Mr Samsom will not be present here, by the way, "say: but if a little money has to go now, because otherwise Greece will fall out? Then, so if that happens," Rutte says, "my answer is that the Greeks can do better on their own. If Greece calls, it is for a large, third aid package."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u185	Exactly!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u186	"And I'm against that." That's what he said. Not a word of Spanish, but completely different text than: I couldn't foresee it. No, we couldn't foresee it, but we all knew that this could happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u187	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u188	And if it happened...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u189	This is very helpful. Thank you, Mr Buma, because this shows exactly why I am giving the answer I am giving and how I was looking at it at the time, what the context was in that situation. The question was indeed asked: what if a little bit of money has to be added? The assumption was that the Greeks could arrange it themselves. At that time, the debate was clearly about whether there was a need for a full, large, third aid package. We had just agreed on a second package, on the basis of which the Greeks, if they were to abide by it, could return to the financial markets and get back on their own feet. In the years that followed, I would like to say once again that if this happened and they took very difficult measures and introduced very difficult laws, with far-reaching consequences for the population, countries could emerge from the crisis. Look at Portugal, Spain, Ireland, Cyprus. That was also our expectation for Greece. Against this background, I gave that answer, and it is now not sustainable in 2015, because a new situation has arisen. I just couldn't foresee that at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u190	In 2012, six list drivers knew what only Rutte and Wilders were holding back. Now we are reasoning what happened in those three years. The Prime Minister says: last summer it really became clear to me and perhaps I would not have made such a statement. Right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u191	Well, this is going too fast for me. I don't know what your question is.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u192	I ask you, when was the time when you thought that I would stop saying that today, because the circumstances are now...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u193	That was later.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u194	That was later. About when?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u195	This year. I just outlined that. When it appeared that a government in a country like Greece drew a line by completing the second aid package, by no longer implementing the agreements, for five or six months. We were in that discussion. The Eurogroup met on 20 February this year. Then it was agreed: we are going to go along some very strict lines towards a proper settlement of the second aid package, based on the idea that it would allow Greece to make a step-by-step move towards the market. We agreed in 2012 that measures could be followed if necessary, not on a write-off, but possibly to extend the duration of loans, if necessary in order to help Greece, to be able to stand on its own feet. There were also a number of winnings in jars that you could still give away. In that whole context of the finalisation of that second aid package, that could be the case. Then, in April, May, June, you saw the enormous damage that had been done in the Greek economy, that growth was falling, that expectations were constantly changing and that the IMF also said: the primary service for this year and next year is almost completely gone and for this year it is even negative. You'll see what happens. At that time I also came to the conclusion that I cannot comply with that statement, because this seems to go to a third package and it is also in the Dutch interest that we cooperate in it, provided that they jump through all hoops and are prepared to swallow and choke to accept the most difficult measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u196	Where others, where two Finance Ministers in 2012, where six list leaders said in 2012: we can't rule anything out, Prime Minister Rutte now says: I started to challenge it in January, February. But then he did it again! In the slick video To do, with which he entered the Provincial State elections, he literally said on the mobile phone to one of his negotiators that we can all see in that slick movie I can't agree to anything that costs even a dime extra money.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u197	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u198	And then it's about Greece. So again elections, and now for the First Chamber and the Provincial States, even in this year, and again Rutte does it! Again, he says, "Not a dime." Now it wasn't even a euro, it was a dime. Again the voter gets the idea to vote for the VVD, because there they have a nice First Chamber group, nice and stable for the country. What's your reaction to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u199	The fact that this is nicely stable for the country is true, of course, but what Mr Pechtold has to say about electoral considerations is not right. Who I spoke to in that phone call is nobody's business...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u200	Well, it was in a commercial!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u201	Yeah, but who I talked to over there is nobody's business. However, the fact that I made a statement there on the Dutch commitment was absolutely clear. That was all in the context of a resolution of the second aid package, as I have just outlined. That second support package contained more than 7 billion of space. There were any profits, profits that could be given. The debt position of Greece could still be considered. All this was the finalisation of the second aid package. In that context, it was impossible for me to decide that we would put extra money into it. I was really against that, and I would still oppose that in that context. Then three months later, there was a Greek referendum, the damage was enormous and a third aid package is the only way to leave Greece on its own feet in a reasonable manner.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u202	Two finance ministers of different colors and six other party list leaders, but Rutte knew better in 2012 and sprinkled sand in the eyes of the electorate. In 2015 he does exactly the same: "No extra dime to the Greeks!" You must have voted for that VVD. You will only be in that group, when your group chairman is too miserable to be in this Chamber today. And you'll only have one prime minister to help you with your seats!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u203	At the request of Mr Pechtold and others, I set out my thoughts on making the choice I made at the time in 2012. That was a substantive consideration. Yes, I say to Mr Buma, it was an election. It was indeed not a Second Chamber debate but an election debate, but that consideration was made from the content, against the background of a second support package, whose implementation was expected to be successful. The facts from the years after that also show that Greece was getting back on its feet. The fact is that we now know that the government is able to do very serious damage, in this case in Greece, by stalling for so long. That is the final need for today's debate. It is true that I cannot keep that promise of elections; Mr Pechtold is quite right. But I do outline Mr Pechtold from what genuine intention I made that statement at the time, no matter how much he disagrees with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u204	On 18 March there were elections. At the beginning of March this year, the Dutch Prime Minister said: no dime to the Greeks. Now he stands here with a package and with damage to the Greek economy and to everything, but above all to reliability, credibility and political leadership. Indeed, whether you are bitten by the dog or the cat in that room, they are all the same types; they promise what and they do nothing! You managed that by saying "no euro" together with Wilders in 2012 and "no dime" in 2015. Faithful people think: well, he'll know!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u205	I just said: that phone call took place in the context of the discussions on the resolution of the second aid package. It was impossible for me to discuss adding extra money to that package. That was months before the Greek referendum and months before the situation arose in which the need for a new aid package for Greece arose.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u206	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u207	I think that thanks to the many interruptions many of the questions I would have liked to answer have already been answered. It may be good to first outline what exactly happened in July and how it relates to the results of August; then I will deal with two specific questions. In July I took up the position with colleagues in the cabinet that, given the situation at that time, Greece could only be eligible under very strict conditions, based on the principle of swallowing or suffocating. The latter could have been the outcome. We were not prepared to deny the principles of monetary union. These principles are that in this currency union we all have the task of ensuring that we move together towards an ever higher level of convergence, higher comparativeness. That is the ideal behind our common euro and the euro area. In addition, when a country is in trouble, we are always prepared to look very seriously at whether we can help such a country temporarily to get back on its feet. For that, look at Portugal, Spain, Cyprus and Ireland. Fortunately, it has also had positive effects, in some cases even spectacularly positive effects, so that these countries can return to this joint journey. For the Greeks, once again, they had to meet the strictest conditions if they wanted to do so. My position is that there is now one of the strictest packages that we have recently agreed with each other in Europe, as some have already argued, in order to achieve a far-reaching reorganisation of the Greek economy. Against this background and because the Greeks were prepared to come to that restoration, and they have already led three packages of reform proposals through their parliament, we are putting forward the proposal that we are discussing here. Of course, there are other issues in Europe at the moment. Mr Harbers and others referred to this. After all, Europe faces a number of very important challenges. I call Ukraine, the issue of migration, the common market and our common competitiveness. Of course that is also to be considered. It should also take into account the possible effects of a grexit on economic growth. At the core, however, it was clear to the cabinet that it was only conceivable to arrive at the definition of the contours of such a package in July, and then to the negotiations on the MoU if the Greeks were prepared to jump through all these hoops. By the way, I have to say that that was the priority for many people. It must, of course, now become apparent in practice whether the Greeks are prepared to do so. Therefore, the payment of these funds will be phased out, always in the context of concrete implementation of measures. There are two more questions I have to answer. The first was about the Greek parliament. We must, of course, wait and see what happens there. These agreements have been made with Greece. In any case, there is broad support for this in the Greek Parliament. Of the 300 Members, 222 voted in favour. Furthermore, if the Greeks do not carry out all the actions they have to do, the tranche ring will stop again. So things are arranged in such a way that payment is only made if concrete action is taken. They're all recorded exactly. The last question I have to answer came from Mr Pechtold. He asked what this means for the euro area in the longer term. We have discussed this with each other a number of times. The cabinet has three priorities for this. In this way, we have also responded to the report of the five presidents. The first is the need for modern economies to be able, through structural reforms, to move towards an ever higher level of convergence and competitiveness. The second point is the importance of further deepening our internal market. It is important for our common European prosperity, both in the Europe of 19 and in the Europe of twenty-eight. Thirdly, high-quality and reliable institutions are needed in the Member States, as well as high-quality and reliable public administration. This concerns our Dutch so-called Better Governance Agenda, which is now widely echoed in Europe. So those three points are our response to that five-president report. So you can see that the Netherlands is not on the verge of that discussion, but in the very heart of that debate. Our country is now able, as we speak, to greatly influence that debate with these views. Among other things, this Better Governance Agenda in response to that five-president report has found broad resonance in Europe. I think I have answered all the questions, at least all the ones I wanted to answer. I see there are some other spokesmen at the interrupting microphone. After the interruptions that result, the Minister of Finance will take care of the other questions that have been raised.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u208	The last point that the Prime Minister touched on is, of course, very interesting. This should prevent us from standing here more often in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u209	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u210	It is clear that we will be standing here more often, because more and more will need to be aligned with the European. However, these five presidents and the heads of government of other countries say, above all, that we must ensure that we convince our people that only further political coordination and cooperation will prevent the need for another 20 summits to resolve problems with the Greek economy, an economy that accounts for 2% of the European economy. That's what needs to be done. When can we expect our Prime Minister to take the lead in this? He is now saying: we need better institutions and we need a deepening of the internal market. That is all very important, but I am concerned about political courage and political leadership. He should show that he dared to say to the people: yes, this means that we need to follow much more Brussels and the President of the Eurogroup. He should say: we should make much more sure that not everyone hangs back every time, so that all these months pass and nothing happens. When can we expect the Prime Minister to take a step forward with which he might startle his supporters and the rest of the Netherlands first, but then succeed in convincing?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u211	Then there will be the question of what lies behind this question by Mr Pechtold, because I am afraid that there is an ambition behind it to create Eurobonds, a transfer union. That is because Mr Pechtold and I have had this debate more often. One of the reasons why we have had so many meetings on Greece is that the cabinet is an opponent of a transfer union and the cabinet felt it necessary to make sure that the Greeks have to meet the most serious conditions to avoid any risk that anyone could think of and to get rid of the feeling that you can leave things in the gravel pit and still get the support of European colleagues without having to take difficult measures. Why is that important? Mr Pechtold has also acknowledged this at times. A number of countries in Europe do not always take all the necessary measures on their own. We have shared our concerns about the situation in Italy and France. The Netherlands may be the fifth economy of the euro area, but I am talking about the third and second economies of the euro area. So we must be extremely careful about this and ensure that wherever we in the Netherlands take very difficult measures with the support of D66 to make our economy healthy, the situation is not that without Dutch influence you will be forced to say 'in southern Europe there is a problem, can you girar'? That is precisely why we have had 20 meetings on Greece, precisely because we do not want a transfer union. That is precisely why I am reluctant to respond to Mr Pechtold's appeal, because I think that this is behind his question. Maybe I'm wrong, but then I'll hear from him.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u212	Behind my question is that Europe needs to be more effective if you want to be a single economy, to have free movement of people, to grow further and to ensure that they do not sit around from Washington watching how we deal with the Greeks. We're pretty much one big transfer union; let's face it. Make sure you tune better in Europe. Make sure that you show people that we with 16 to 17 million people can solve the problems of refugees neither of climate, energy nor of economy if we do not cooperate and do not want and defend our currency and you also need other far-reaching mechanisms to do so. I would like to hear that from this Prime Minister, but I'm afraid he's going to sit back in that discussion and let others do the work. What's about to happen? Paris and Berlin are going to decide for us.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u213	The latter is not the case, because at the moment we are really at the heart of that discussion. On that point, I can simply reassure Mr Pechtold. That is what you can see from the facts, namely that our views on the five-president report are widely shared and that we have the lead rather than the back. Furthermore, his argument shows a difference of opinion. What we do not want and what I do not think D66 should want is for us to get into a transfer union if countries do not comply with the agreements to move together towards a higher goal and automatism, whether it goes indirectly through Eurobonds or directly through ESM programmes without preconditions. We don't want that. The Greeks must now jump through a huge number of hoops and implement an extremely heavy package of reforms in return for the support we are willing to give. We're gonna measure that at any time. That's the situation where you can help each other. That is also in the basis of the euro area. We all have to stop our own pants and take the necessary measures. If we get into trouble, we're willing to help in return for very heavy measures. That's really essential. If you don't, I'm very afraid you'll hear in Rome and in Greece et cetera, the sound of the leather of the desk chairs being pressed down by people falling backwards again. We shouldn't have that, because in the end we'll pay that bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u214	It was a special first term for the Prime Minister. We discussed most of the RTL debate in 2012, but there was also reason to do so. The Prime Minister would give a political assessment. How does he politically assess the fact that the support of the House of Representatives for this third aid package for Greece is very narrow? We have had the first term of office. There's one fraction that really believes in it, and that's the PvdA. Another government group accepts it to avoid fuss. I have rarely heard such arguments and I hope never to hear them again, but it has happened in this Parliament today. Then we have D66 who, in my opinion, accepts this package better and believes it reasonably, although Mr Pechtold always has some difficulty with that word. But then it stops. The groups that have supported the second package, such as the CDA and GroenLinks, have now argued why they do not. The other groups which were opposed at the time were unable to convince the Prime Minister to support this. So it's a very narrow base. If this had been the First Chamber, it would have been voted off. My question to the Prime Minister is: how does he assess this political situation in the Dutch Parliament?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u215	As Mr Slob knows, I always seek broad support. I don't always think so. That's what it turns out to be today. In the end, the cabinet must take responsibility. Nor is it the case that the Chamber has to say yes to this. There is no request to the Chamber to say yes to this aid package. However, I admit immediately that in a vote on this aid package part of the Chamber would indeed be against it. That's what the facts are. I, and in a moment also Minister Dijsselbloem, will, of course, try to convince groups like the CDA and GroenLinks. In the past they were in favour, but now they doubt or doubt. They seem to have already decided to oppose it. Of course, that is their right, but it is special, because in other countries these political formations are all for package support. But these groups make their own decisions here. That's obvious.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u216	Could it not also work the other way around, namely that the Prime Minister and the Cabinet itself should reconsider whether they are on the right track? In fact, my impression is that the groups that are now dropping out are doing so partly on the basis of the experience with the previous support packages. This is actually more of the same, and then again with larger amounts. Is the Prime Minister, is the Cabinet prepared to look at this political situation and simply rethink self-reflection and perhaps come back from the path taken, for which the support is minimal and which is supported by one of the groups that supports it, even the largest, with an argument that has nothing to do with the content of the package?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u217	The cabinet position is as it is. We have, of course, thought very carefully about this. Jeroen Dijsselbloem and I, but also Bert Koenders and of course the other colleagues in the cabinet, have been working on this for months. We have thought very carefully about it and come to the conclusion that Greece is prepared to take the necessary measures, in return for which, according to European rules, the country can rely on joint support. We are going to follow that very critically, because the confidence is minimal, given the events over the past six months. So confidence will have to return step by step. In doing so, as I say quite frankly, the fact that more than in the past, three major reform packages have now been rushed through the Greek Parliament very quickly. However, it will have to continue to persist in the coming months. Here's another thing. I have just outlined the whole context in which we are making the reflections: the further, wider European agenda ahead and the relations in the euro area. All things considered, we come to the conclusion that this is a sensible package to ask for support for. At least we do not even ask them, because formally the Chamber does not have to say yes; such a question is not before us. It is, in any case, a package on which the cabinet discusses the debate with the Chamber from a positive point of view.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u218	Mr Harbers, spokesperson for the VVD, stated in the first term that an important reason for the VVD to vote in favour lies in the possibility of political hassle in the Netherlands, which he does not give the Greeks. The question to the Prime Minister is: does political trouble arise in the Netherlands if the VVD did not vote for this package?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u219	Now you're asking me all like-dan questions. I understand from Mr Harbers' speech that the VVD will not stop this package. So it's a like-dan question. I'm not gonna answer that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u220	No, this isn't like-dan question, because there hasn't been a vote yet. If what I think is politically sensible is not a reason for internal politics in the Netherlands if the VVD votes against, then the VVD might be able to look more at the content. In that respect, I have not heard much support for the cabinet line. So again I ask the question: does it lead to political hassle when the VVD votes against? If that's a like-dan question, then the Prime Minister is in the wrong political house.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u221	Once again, I have heard the VVD spokesman on the struggle of his group. I understand that very well. It's a struggle that I, Jeroen Dijsselbloem and the rest of the cabinet have had in recent times. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has also wrestled with it. In my view, this also applies to the CDA Group, which ultimately comes to a different conclusion. I respect that. I regret that. It surprises me, because it is very different from the conclusion of all the other CDAs in Europe. Anyway, that's the great right of an opposition party. After a long discussion, the VVD Group has concluded that it will no longer actively say no to the package. That's what I've got to buy. That's why I think it's a like-dan question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u222	The answer was again that cynical phrase that the Prime Minister seems to think we need all the time in this debate. As I have said before and wish to repeat, the CDA makes its own considerations. We did so when Greece joined, and we did so when Romania and Bulgaria joined. I can tell you even more: in Germany 63 Christian Democrats are against, here only 13. So there's still a difference. But let me come back to the core...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u223	So, this is also...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u224	Mr Buma, what is your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u225	The Prime Minister keeps saying he doesn't know if there's trouble here or not. I am left with the question that I have also asked Mr Harbers, namely whether the cabinet has put pressure on the VVD not to look at content, but above all to realise the political consequences. Has it been a purely private consideration of the VVD Group?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u226	Maybe that's a difference between the VVD and the CDA. At the VVD that type of political pressure would not work. At the CDA that worked in the past, but apparently not now, because that party is in opposition. At the VVD, that wouldn't work. Mr. Buma knows the VVD. That is not a party where political pressure works. That group makes its own decisions. We just heard it from Mr. Harbers. He gave all the explanations. I respect that struggle. I have it myself, just like the rest of the cabinet and all the parties that do not want to stop it, seems to me. Considering everything, we come to this conclusion for all kinds of reasons.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u227	I think it's important that there hasn't been any pressure, but it makes the story of the VVD that feels like a Calimero different. The group itself is entitled to take a decision on this package? That she refers to politics in the Netherlands is her business, but isn't it shared by the Prime Minister? I think it's important to be able to establish that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u228	Again, it's a like-dan situation. I have heard the position of the VVD Group. In my view, the situation in which that question needs to be answered does not arise.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u229	In my first term, I asked the Prime Minister a question about the IMF and its debt cancellation or restructuring. That is why the IMF is asking. I thought he would refer to the Minister of Finance and look forward to answering my technical question. However, I still have a political question for the Prime Minister. The IMF requires that debt restructuring is also considered. The debt burden must be sustainable. Does this Prime Minister exclude debt forgiveness to Greece?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u230	In my opinion, the Eurogroup statement explicitly states that there can be no nominal reduction, but that it is possible to look at the debt position later this year and at other instruments to alleviate that debt, not at debt disposal. That is what the eurogroup statement says last Friday.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u231	This is "financialism."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u232	Economics, financialism?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u233	This is all very "wishy-washy," while ultimately it's about some of the money we borrowed from Greece not coming back, to make it a bit simple. If Greece doesn't have to pay back for another 30 or 40 years, it just has an effect on what you get back. Then there are transfers. That's what I'm here for, by the way. Does the Prime Minister rule this out without him falling into all kinds of technical bullshit?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u234	Now that whole story of "financialism" and "economicism" I've really lost what this is.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u235	In response to the question that I am going to ask, I am ultimately convinced that we can only keep Greece within the euro area if we are willing to give real money to Greece and so do not assume that it will come back. So we will also have to look at Greece's debt position. This means, in the end, that the country's full debt to the countries in the euro area, including the Netherlands, will not come back. Does the Prime Minister agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u236	I still don't understand, but let me try to answer the possible question. The European Treaties do not allow a nominal debt write-off to take place. It's as simple as that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u237	That is true, but there are many other ways to ensure that the whole debt does not have to be repaid. My question to the Prime Minister is whether he can rule that out.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u238	In the Eurogroup statement and in the July statement there are things like grace periods or maturity periods. That's what you could watch. This does not mean that the terms will be repaid, but that the terms will be softened. Then you come to the question of whether that is necessary. The Finance Minister Jeroen Dijsselbloem, as president of the eurogroup, has achieved with his colleagues that the IMF is now prepared not to look at the debt against national income, but at the cost of that debt per year, i.e. the burden on the annual budget. The IMF uses certain benchmarks for this purpose. It seems that Greece will at least remain below that in the years to come. In the longer term, this may not be the case or Greece is just touching it. In October, it will be watched. In doing so, the Eurogroup has said that a nominal debt write-off is not a matter for the European treaties, either.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u239	Mr. Chairman. I will deal with a few aspects. As the Prime Minister said, the balancing of support for Greece under stricter conditions than ever before has not been easy, not even for the Dutch cabinet, nor for the euro group. That is also one of the reasons why so many meetings have been devoted to it. I say this in response to Mr Pechtold's comment on the number of meetings. One of the members asked how trust suddenly came back. So that's not back either. This will have to come back very gradually and through consistent implementation of the agreements. That is what we are following step by step. That is why first packages of measures were adopted by the Greeks in parliament even before an agreement was concluded. That was one of the conditions: delivery first, because only then can we judge whether there will be any return of trust. So that's gonna take a long time. It is also clear from this debate in the Chamber how difficult the balance has been. Some are against it because the conditions are too strict. Some consider the conditions to be too weak and do not have the confidence that it will work. Some are opposed because they are in favour of maintaining confidence in the euro and want a strong euro. That's why Greece has to leave. Others want to get rid of the euro as quickly as possible and, first of all, they want to throw Greece out. Some people think there's too much money going to Greece. Others believe that too little money goes to the Greek population. A melee of arguments shows that it is difficult to say yes to this package, in the current circumstances and in the current history. Yet that is necessary. This is necessary under the right conditions. Anyone who says that these conditions are not the right one and will not have any effect must make an analysis of the functioning of the Greek government, the Greek public institutions and the economy in Greece. This has nothing to do with left and right. I may be accused of pragmatism, but if a country hangs so on the edge of the abyss, then some pragmatism is not unwise. In an economy in which no one is willing to invest anymore because there is no confidence that as an entrepreneur you have a fair chance of earning your sandwich back, pragmatism is the only thing that helps to get the economy back on track. We have put together a package that is indeed stricter than previous packages. Three sub-parts of that package of conditions have already been adopted in the Greek Parliament. In this way, the Greek Government has already changed more in legislation and policies in Greece than the previous government had managed to achieve. And that is indeed amazing when you saw her ideological program. This is the situation, as bizarre as it is, that we are now facing. We are going to keep the Greek Government on this path. Let me make a few comments about history. We have often debated this with each other. Some say that it is all Europe's fault and the programmes that are, of course, all bad and failed. However, let us be clear: the history of Greece is one of decades of mispolicy and six months of total chaos. In the first half of this year there was total chaos in the policy. Investors ran away. People have taken their money out of the bank massively. That is the context in which we stand. That is why a programme of this magnitude is now needed. This is extremely regrettable when you consider where Greece was at the beginning of 2014. The Prime Minister told me. Many comments have been made on the type of conditions. I'll say something about that. Then I will deal with the amounts. I will also address the question of how to proceed. The IMF and debt sustainability will be dealt with. Looking at the package, I think these measures are really necessary. Much of it will be agreed by everyone from left to right. I am thinking of fighting corruption and breaking away from nepotism, including in the economy. A lot of monopoly profits are being made in the Greek economy. The bill is simply paid by Greek citizens. There must finally be effective enforcement of tax legislation. None of that is overnight. That is going to take a long time, but we have now made more and harder agreements on this than ever before. I would point out that they must establish and enforce the independence of public services. There must also be a better approach to privatisation. Privatisation is inevitable given Greece's state balance sheet. The bottomline is whether this is all gonna work. The crux of these kinds of programs is that they only work if the implementation actually happens. That is why we have also said: go through some packages first to restore confidence before we can transfer money again. The question is whether this approach can work. Yeah, it can definitely work. I would like to draw your attention to the results in Spain, Portugal, Ireland and, in fact, the situation in Greece itself until the beginning of 2014. Ireland now has an economic growth rate of 4%. Spain exceeds 3%. Portugal comes from a deep valley and sits at 1.5%. Unemployment in these countries is falling rapidly. The debt is rapidly reducing in these countries. So programs can work if the government takes responsibility for it. We will consistently ask this government to do so. Is a primary surplus realistic and feasible? Yes, there are plenty of examples of euro-area countries that had a primary surplus before the crisis and are now on their way back to it. In order to avoid misunderstandings, this is not the same as an actual surplus of 3.5%. It's a primary surplus. Then the amounts. If this programme is formally approved by the ESM tonight, the ESM will be able to finance up to 86 billion in the form of loans if all these conditions are met in the next three years. Maximum. That amount could change. There's a lot of insecure factors in it. We have seen this in previous programmes. I would remind you of one: the Spanish banking programme, which involved a sum of 100 billion. In the end, 40 billion has proved necessary for the banks. So the banks alone, the recapitalisation of Greek banks, have great uncertainty. I say this because in the future we will often talk about the progress of this programme and about Greece. Then the amounts may be different. Much has been said in the media and also in the debate today that 25 billion is being transferred. That would be the Dutch contribution. That's out of the question. There is no transfer of 5 billion to Greece today. The Netherlands is also a guarantor in the ESM. The ESM has a very large capacity to provide emergency loans. So for this aid to Greece, the Netherlands is not doing anything in terms of additional debt, additional balance or deficit. There were also speakers who said that we could have spent that 25 billion better in the Netherlands. We don't have that kind of money. It's not on the shelf. If we had spent 25 billion more in the Netherlands, our public debt would simply have been 25 billion higher. So this kind of reasoning isn't entirely true. It would be a pity if our constituents thought that we were transferring 25 billion from our state grape to Greece. That's just not the way the facts are. Whether it's 86 billion or 92 billion has been asked. That message would come from the German press, which said that 6 billion from privatisation had been put on top of it. There was always a part of privatisation. That amount has been adjusted a few times. That went up and down. Now it's stuck at 6 billion. So an amount of 6 billion of total privatisations is needed to finance the programme. That's not a new approach. It has been said that this is a total loan of 326 billion to the Greeks. That too is a misunderstanding. In fact, 204 billion has been borrowed from the various programmes so far. That's not even a small beer, by the way. I know it won't matter to some people. Every billion is too many. But it does matter whether you've lent 326 billion or 204 billion so far. Many have said that the money does not go to the Greek citizens. That is also what I read in the comments in the newspapers. That is, of course, a strange argument. It is said: yes, it all goes to European banks. Those banks did first lend that money to the Greek people. That money was spent in Greece by Greeks. It helps the Greek government if we now finance it in a different way for them, namely through the European emergency funds. So it is a debt relief. This is already a restructuring. This package is largely used to pay off IMF and ECB. So it is being refinanced, and in fact it is again a debt relief. So is there a taboo on debt relief? No. Is there a taboo on debt write-off? You can talk about it, but the Dutch cabinet is just not for it. So the nominal amounts have to come back. This is not so important for economic reasons, but for the fundamental reason that if countries lend each other money, they always have to come back. Yeah, you can talk about terms. That's not new either. The IMF is constantly negotiating terms with debtors. The Paris Club does nothing but talk about terms, but the debts have to be repaid. The Dutch Government attaches great importance to this principle, and that remains. That will come to me on my own for the next few months. The first mid-term evaluation of the programme is foreseen for October. Then we'll see if everything's been done until then. So far, it's been extremely smooth. The three packages I mentioned have been achieved and implemented extremely smoothly. We are looking at a number of issues that should be on the table in October: pension reforms and further cuts. The scale of these cuts is 1% of gross domestic product, which still needs to be completed. These are also important conditions for the IMF to take the decision to step in in October. The IMF has been involved in this programme. Lagarde has expressed a positive opinion in the Eurogroup, but also publicly, on the programme that is now under way. She did say that it was necessary to clarify what should have been completed in October. I very much agree with her on that. It is also necessary to clarify the issue of debt sustainability. I can see that Mr Slob already wants to interrupt, but perhaps I can finish this, then I am through my whole speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u240	He nods yes, so you can finish it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u241	Then my whole speech is done. The IMF has agreed on debt sustainability: we will look at debt service, as it is called. Can a country maintain its debt on an annual basis? You're talking about redemptions and interest. The IMF standard is that debt should not exceed 15% of gross domestic product. The calculations show that debt sustainability, even in the gloomy scenario, in the adverse scenario, remains on average around 12% until 2030. That means that the debt is just sustainable. If Greece complies with the commitments and keeps the budget in order as agreed, the debt will be sustainable at least until 2030. Then there are a few peaks. We will analyse them, and we will discuss them with the IMF. We will see how we deal with it in the future. This is always done under the condition that Greece adheres to the programme, including in the long term. The debt sustainability will be a condition for the IMF. We have already had most of the discussion with the IMF along this track, and I think we are going to get out of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u242	Thank you for your patience, Mr Slob.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u243	The IMF's going a little fast. The second aid package was discussed in February and again in May. At that time, it was a very, very tough demand for the IMF to be financially involved in the aid package for the Netherlands. It was also very clear at the time that the Dutch Government would not agree to a package of aid if we did not have that financial involvement. Let us look at what is happening around the IMF now. Of course, the IMF is involved in this in the sense that it is watching. I think Mrs Lagarde had telephone contact when the Eurogroup met or something. The IMF did, but the real financial involvement of the IMF was not known until the autumn. Then why do we already agree to this package? If you are so committed to the hard involvement of the IMF, why not wait until the autumn or if there is no bridge?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u244	In the debate in July, I said that we cannot break the iron with our hands on this point. The IMF will not formally take a decision until October. That's what it said a long time ago. So we have always involved the IMF and the IMF has been completely open to us on what needs to be done if it is to take a positive decision in October. There is that intention. The 16 billion previously earmarked by the IMF for Greece and still, in a way, ready, are still in principle reserved. So the IMF's intention is to step in. However, it has said that if it goes to the board for approval in October, there must be more clarity about the content of a number of points. We also said that it should be there in October. Furthermore, debt sustainability had to be guaranteed. The old approach, that of maximum debt size in relation to domestic product, is abandoned. We're just gonna see if a party can sustain its own debt. For Greece, such an approach is much better than a more superficial analysis: it is very large, so it will not be possible. "Great" doesn't say much. Three things are important for the comparison of a country's debt: the size, i.e. the total amount, when to be paid and the interest paid. Anyone who has a mortgage or consumer credit knows that's how it works. Whether you have to pay tomorrow or you have two years to pay for it, it doesn't matter. It doesn't matter if the percentage is 10 or 1. This approach must therefore be more refined and better, then the debt in the years to come can be paid fine by Greece itself. And that's the way it should be.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u245	When it comes to the involvement of the IMF, I note that the hard demand made by the cabinet at least in the previous package of aid is now being abandoned. So one is satisfied with an intention, and in the autumn we will see further. But when it comes to the definition of debt sustainability, I have the impression that this is actually a Tom Poes ruse. We are above 200% of GDP, but we are continuing with this support package. The definition that has always been used is also used by the IMF, because I do not think that the IMF has yet made a new definition. If that definition is applied to this package, it is simply not enough. It doesn't meet the requirements and that's why it can't go on; so we adjust the definition and can go on. Can the Minister of Finance respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u246	I have just indicated the economic logic of choosing this better method. The IMF shares this. In a nutshell, Mr Slob said that the IMF is not convinced of this. However, the IMF is convinced of this and is prepared to use this better method. The debt is really better to express when you also take into account when to pay back and what the interest burden is. If Mr Slob wipes those arguments aside, I obviously cannot convince him, but these are just economic arguments. The debt service approach provides a much better insight into and a much better answer to the question of whether a party can pay its debt in the coming years. I also think that looking at what the interest burden is and when it needs to be repaid is a logical and sensible approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u247	I have not yet received an answer to my question about the fact that the cabinet has now really abandoned that harsh demand and considers it sufficient that the IMF intends to clarify its financial commitment in October. So it was not chosen to take place with the big package, perhaps with a bridge, and to make the final choice in the autumn, at a time when the position of the IMF is completely clear. That is not the case now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u248	With the second programme, it was appropriate to bring the IMF with it immediately, and thus to ensure the involvement of the IMF immediately. This just doesn't fit in. We may be able to demand it from the IMF, but that has indicated that it cannot do so at the moment, that it cannot take that decision until October and that a number of issues must be resolved. We discussed it. It's what it is. We have always known this. We have previously given this, in AO's, complete openness. We will take the IMF as far as we can and we will stick to it to ensure that our chances are as high as possible in October. I will be very committed to that, too. I have faith in that, but I can't guarantee this. That guarantee doesn't come until the board has decided on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u249	The point Mr Slob just made is also important for the CDA to take up a position. As a Chamber, we are now being asked to separate EUR 86 billion in order to allow it to go to Greece. But only in October will it become clear what will come back, and how long it will take and how high interest rates will become. That is, of course, a very strange consideration. We did not say that we want to know exactly what is coming back and only then to transfer that money. I therefore put the following question to the Minister of Finance: if the Chamber is to take this decision now, how is it to assess the possible reduction in interest rates and the extension of debt, and thus the money that we will lose on this loan?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u250	The uncertainty lies in the following. If the IMF steps in, it will again pay a share of the required amount of 86 billion u.a., which is a maximum amount. This means that European funds, the ESM, will borrow less. You want to have a look at the outcome of that guilt debate. Let me look forward. If Greece simply adheres to the programme, debt will not exceed 12% on average in the coming years, even in the gloomy scenario. In the years after that, there are a few peaks, but as we look further away, there is more uncertainty about how growth will develop and whether everyone keeps to the agreements. So I do not expect us to be able to say exactly what we are going to do in what year. We can agree on an approach with the IMF, in which a debt service approach is chosen and 15% agreed. Once again, all this is conditional on Greece complying with the strict conditions of the programme, including the primary balance associated with it. That's the approach we're gonna take. I think I can't and won't answer the question even in October. No, I can't answer it; if I could, I'd like to know in which year exactly what has to be done to stay below that 15%. It is much more about the importance of reaching an agreement with the IMF on the approach. That's my bet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u251	But that means that, in your opinion, the IMF's perception that it is not really sustainable and that debt relief is needed is very disappointing. As far as you're concerned, there's really no need for debt relief. Here and there it's about a few years in which they pay off differently. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u252	That's our analysis. It is my commitment to further discuss this with the IMF, of course, to reach agreement on it. If Greece adheres to the agreements, looking at maturity and interest rates is not taboo, although there is actually no margin in the interest rate. That's what I'm saying in advance. That's not a new position. The previous cabinet also had that position. We have also involved this statement in the second programme. So debt relief is not a taboo in itself. Conditions for loans have been negotiable in the past and can be so in the future. What is really unspeakable for us is the reduction of loan amounts. You can talk about it endlessly, but we won't approve.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u253	I have one final point. In Greece there is another cliffhanger, namely whether the cabinet stays until the end of the year. Tsipras has already indicated that there may be a vote of confidence or distrust in Parliament if this deal is made. Perhaps there will also be a referendum in his own party. Has it been discussed with Greece that Europe would not benefit if this Prime Minister collapsed his country again and that it would still go wrong in October? Or is this just one of the nasty things that can happen within this third package?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u254	We cannot go into the politics of Greece, in the sense that we say: you may or may not vote on it. That's not how it works. In this programme, we move forward step by step with the Greeks. That's how it works. If, in October, in November, in December or in any month, the conditions of the programme are not met, by any circumstances, especially when that is a political choice, the programme is ready. It'll be quiet. In Brussels, I was asked at the press conference whether I was concerned that Syria's unity was at stake. I have said that I am more interested in broad support in the Greek Parliament and I think that is more important. ND, Pasok, To Potami and other parties have also voted in favour and I think that is more important than that last seat, just to say, of Syria. That support was broad, as the Prime Minister has already indicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u255	As far as the IMF involvement is concerned, it has been noted that Mrs Lagarde made a firm statement at the end of the Eurogroup meeting that debt relief had to go further than previously envisaged. The Minister of Finance states that he is confident that they will get out with each other. Why, in spite of the IMF's involvement, did it not succeed in adopting a common position on this matter?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u256	Exactly: under the second program was the old appointment, which was made at the end of 2012. This was: if it is necessary and if Greece is to comply fully with all the agreements, the eurogroup countries are prepared to consider it. I know the wording very precisely by heart to take further debt relief measures. Then it was also about interest and maturity. The second program crashed. Greece didn't finish it. Nevertheless, the Heads of Government have shown their willingness to look at debt sustainability if Greece is to comply fully with the commitments. So that deal isn't new. The IMF has gloomy assumptions, while we are convinced even in our darkest scenario that Greece will be able to maintain its debt service in the coming years. We will have that discussion with the IMF. The IMF is somewhat more gloomy about that. His gloomiest scenario is gloomier than ours, but we now agree on the approach and the standard: up to 15% GDP. The only thing you can argue about then is whether the scenario is too bleak or too optimistic. My approach would be to make an appointment. We probably don't agree on the scenarios, but I'd make an agreement on what we do if it turns out worse than we thought. That agreement may be that we will then look at maturity of loans. You don't have to do that right now. You can also arrange a trial without saying: I'm sure this is gonna go wrong, so I'm gonna do this or that. I don't think this is necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u257	Are there any indications that the IMF will also say that the adjustment of the maturity of the loans or interest rates will allow sufficient margin to be found for debt sustainability?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u258	Sure. The IMF has recognised the political reality and also accepts that there is no support in the eurogroup for the haircut, the reduction in the volume of nominal loans. There's just no basis for that. That is rejected as a principle. The IMF accepts that and says that you can do it in other ways. By the way, I cannot confirm in the media that it would be 60 years and longer. The IMF has not advocated this either in the eurogroup or outside.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u259	The next item is the second parliamentary term in the debate on the loan programme for Greece. I call Mr Wilders of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u260	Mr. Chairman. This was the debate on the exposure of the VVD and the exposure of the Prime Minister. They both went through the pump. As a political leader of the VVD, the Prime Minister has made promises and has now put that whole wheelbarrow in the trash. I mention €1,000 for every working Dutchman, a strict asylum policy, the PvdA as the danger to the Netherlands and not money to Greece. The opposite has happened everywhere. It is good that people at home now see what an unbelievable Prime Minister we have and that also the VVD is not worth the snipe. Without that, no 41 seats, without that no prime minister. I told you, the Prime Minister lied to the turret. The worst part might still be the choices they make. Politics is making choices. The PVV also knows and respects that. Billions are chosen for the Greeks, while the elderly in the Netherlands, for example, are in trouble. I can't repeat it enough. 80% of the elderly don't know how to make ends meet. They're skipping care. You can't do that! I'm just ashamed of that. I'm ashamed to have a prime minister making these choices. He should be ashamed of that, too. I'll start with the motion of censure. Of course, I am addressing not only the Prime Minister, but the whole cabinet. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the cabinet is acting against the interests of the Netherlands by agreeing to a new Greek aid package;]] [[declares confidence in the cabinet,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-21501-07-1297]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u261	The second motion is still an attempt, perhaps against better knowledge, but we are standing here to get things done to stop the third package of aid. The motion reads as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[does not agree with a third aid package for Greece,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-21501-07-1298]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u262	Mr. Chairman. Perhaps you will allow me to point out to the Netherlands in a few seconds that they have the opportunity to give the urophils a tap on the nose. The GeenStijl and GeenPeil website took the initiative to hold an advisory referendum on the Association Treaty between the European Union and Ukraine and a number of other countries. They're gonna need 300,000 signatures for that in the next few weeks. I would say to the whole of the Netherlands: join in. I'm doing the same thing. Let's let them smell a poop like that! All in!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u263	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Cabinet for its first-term response. As I said, the Labour Party supports the agreement. The agreement provides a basis for Greece to recover. What is happening today in all parliaments in the euro area is the result of intensive negotiations. The choice ahead is next. I am also saying this towards the CDA and GroenLinks, who really made a different choice today than they did in the past. The question is: do we support or reject cooperation in Europe? It is a question of whether we appreciate the achievement of agreement or whether we are wallowing in one's own equalness and thereby in favour of a divided Europe. The PvdA is convinced that a Europe in which we join forces will eventually be stronger, even in the world. That really works better than any man for himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u264	Mr. Chairman. I think we should congratulate Mr Wilders on his 20th motion of censure. Such a lustrum helps democracy! Mr. Chairman. Should the Netherlands do the utmost to keep the euro area together? That was the question in the Carré debate to Rutte, to Buma, to Slob and to me. Yes was the right answer then, and yes is the right answer today. A tight majority now seems to give the green light and this package of support for Greece has been difficult to achieve, but it is coming. I am glad that at least the Prime Minister is now taking responsibility. Are we there? No, of course not, because trust isn't back yet. Not only confidence in Greece, but also confidence in politics does not just come back. This Prime Minister has an expensive duty to restore that trust. People's confidence in politics has been strongly tested by his choices and by his broken promises. What is the Prime Minister going to do to restore that confidence? Is he going to continue to muddle in the rear of his castle, or is he going to bet on the future, on a democratic political union? According to the Prime Minister, the Netherlands is at the heart of that discussion. Well, then hopefully we can add his name to the list of government leaders who see the need to build further, at Merkel, Hollande, Renzi and Rajoy. I would like to hear another response to that in the second term. The Tsipras government will have to show what it's worth. With this package, the Greeks will be given the opportunity to take their destiny back into their own hands, and the eurozone will have the opportunity to shift attention to the important issues at our borders. Let us make use of this and let us work for an effective union, which is democratically accountable to all 500 million Europeans. Since no one else does, I'm going to table a motion to support this package. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[supports the third aid package for Greece,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Pechtold. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-21501-07-1299]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u265	Mr. Chairman. In the first period, the CDA Group indicated that it had no confidence in this Greek Government in the implementation of the measures to be taken. In fact, everything that has been exchanged in this debate today is proof of that. The Prime Minister also said that it went particularly wrong in Greece after the new government took office. Of course it was not good before, but there was a view of a budget surplus and there was a view of economic recovery. If we want to build Europe together, it cannot be that it comes from one side and that the country that needs to be saved swims itself away from the savior. The second point is the lack of clarity about the cost of the package. The Minister of Finance has talked about this, but it remains to be seen that we are now being asked to approve a package of EUR 86 billion, while the question of what it costs us will not be answered at the negotiating table until October. That has to be the other way around. First we need to know what it costs and then we make a choice. Then the extremely unstable position remains in Greece. The Minister of Finance says that is up to the Greeks themselves. Certainly, but when it came to holding a referendum, everyone told the Greek Prime Minister in advance what the consequences would be, namely that the negotiating position would deteriorate. Now that's left open, and that's bad. Then I'll come to the Prime Minister. It has created its own political reality today, I must say quite frankly. The radar wasn't tuned very sharply today. Before the elections, we have one responsibility, we call some, we press buttons, and after the elections we take on a new responsibility. In doing so, the Prime Minister has damaged his own credibility, and with that, and that is even worse, the credibility of politics here too. You also have a responsibility for elections, especially as Prime Minister, and not until the votes have been counted. The VVD Group is in favour and against at the same time today. In words she is very gloomy and very critical; I can recognize a lot of that. In voting behaviour, however, the VVD Group has announced that it will eventually be in favour of it again. Why? To avoid domestic hassle and because so many countries have already agreed. If that becomes the weighting of the Dutch parliament, this has become just a chat house and it is no longer a parliament that says yes and no to proposals from the cabinet. Today we are talking about EUR 36 billion, money that is very expensive and that cannot be transferred because Greece has so clearly shown not to deliver where it should be. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that the present rescue package does not provide a solution;]] [[calls on the Government not to agree to the third aid package for Greece,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by members Van Haersma Buma, Slob, Van der Staaij, Klaver and Roemer.]] [[She's getting No. kst-21501-07-1300]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u266	Mr. Chairman. I thank the directors for their first-term response and for defending the choice made by the cabinet to agree to this third aid package. I have already indicated in the first term that this package does not contain the content that the Christian Union Group considers necessary for a proper approach to the Greek problems. We see rather the opposite. We believe that the Greek debt will increase even further with this package, that they will be a burden on Greece's neck and that it will eventually go wrong. The medicine that has been used before and has not worked is now being used for the third time. That also means that I am convinced that we will be standing here again in a few weeks or months, at the latest in October, if there is more clarity on the part of the IMF, but it could also be sooner. This debate is not the last debate on how to deal with the problems in Greece. We cannot therefore support this third aid package. Looking at the debate and the composition of political groups, I also note that support for these kinds of packages is falling sharply. I have already drawn attention to this in an interruption to the Prime Minister. In the coalition there is a lot of reluctance at the VVD. I am therefore curious to see whether the VVD Group will vote in full for this support package, because there may still be 'dissidents' in the group, as we call it; we will see that in the afternoon. In addition to the support of the coalition, the cabinet depends on that little bit of support that D66 still provides. That's a very narrow base for such a big subject. I don't think that's a good thing. I hope the cabinet will think about that. Finally, to emphasise the always very consistent position of the Christian Union, I submit the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the third loan package now proposed significantly increases the debt burden for Greece to more than 200% of GDP;]] [[calls on the government not to agree to the third loan package and instead to use Greece's exit from the euro area linked to a (partial) debt cancellation and support through European funds,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Slob and Mr Van der Staaij. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-21501-07-1301]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u267	Madam President. It's not a good day for democracy. The largest party in this Parliament indicates that it doesn't matter what it does; the European train is going down anyway. As I said at the beginning of the debate, it is a matter of time before we are back here to discuss a further agreement for Greece. The Prime Minister is now openly admitting that. He does not exclude another fourth package for Greece; it will not be a campaign time by now. One would say that it must be thought that even at the IMF it is acknowledged that years of austerity have only made the chaos in Greece worse. This agreement knows nothing but losers. The Greeks can look forward to even more degradation. The Dutch are again paying for the costs. Democracy in Europe is also a loser, because once again we see that ordinary people have less and less to say about their future, their country and cooperation with other countries. However, it does not seem to matter to the Prime Minister. Today is a time to draw a line. Let us not continue on a dead end, but let us make it clear that the course of more debt and less democracy must be stopped. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that the new support package for Greece is a continuation of the neoliberal crisis policy pursued over the last five years;]] [[believes that the conduct of the Troika and the Eurogroup undermines not only democracy in Greece but throughout Europe;]] [[considers that this policy has led to social degradation, mass unemployment and high poverty;]] [[considers that new loans are currently mainly for the benefit of lenders and the financial sector;]] [[considers that the continuation of the chosen route does not give confidence in a sustainable solution for Greece and Europe;]] [[considers that the only possibility for Greece to repay loans is the prospect of more economic growth;]] [[rejects the agreement concluded,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Roemer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-21501-07-1302]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u268	Mr. Chairman. In my first term, I said that my group would very much like to support the Greeks. We are happy to support a package that will ultimately help Greece and thus strengthen the euro area. However, we do not have confidence in the package that is now before us. That is why we cannot support it. Others say that we would not choose Europe or Greece in this way, but I think that is far too easy to say. I think it is a sham contradiction and there are always other choices possible. That's what we stand for. We say no. We draw a line. We say that this is not the way we deal with each other in Europe. I found it quite shocking that the Prime Minister said: yes, it was swallowing or choking for the Greeks. Is that how we deal with each other in a Union in which we try to work together on the basis of shared values and equivalence? I don't think so. That is why my group is voting against this package, or will support Mr Buma's motion on this point. Finally, I would like to say a few words about the Prime Minister's attitude. He made a promise in 2012 when he already knew that he would not be able to keep it. He's really trying to get away with this. He says now: I have not kept my promise. That is a credit to him, but the way he is trying to justify it today and the way he is now trying to explain afterwards why it is true is perhaps even more damaging than the promise he made earlier. He's running away from the responsibility he's taken by promising something that was impossible to live up to. That's unworthy of a Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u269	Mr. Chairman. I thank the rulers for their reply. I said on behalf of the SGP Group in the first term that it will not support the new loan package. The most important question, which has been asked a lot today, is whether you are confident that this will really solve the problems for Greece. My group does not have that confidence. I also note that Parliament's support, but perhaps also wider, is really digging out public support. If we continue along this path, I believe that this is also an important political signal that comes from today's debate. I asked the Minister of Finance another question about the obligation to open shops on Sundays. I haven't heard the answer from him yet, so maybe he can go into that point. This would be a temporary exception, but now it has to be done again. Will the Minister make an effort to leave a decision on such an opening to the Greeks themselves? This isn't something to impose. Quite a large part of the debate has been talked about the 2012 Prime Minister's election promise. I did not have the pleasure of attending the RTL debate, so I was modest in the discussion on this. Perhaps, however, I can remind the Prime Minister and all my colleagues of a word from the wise Preacher. In any case, this will enable us to benefit from it in the future. For lovers, the words can be read in Ecclesiastes 5, verse 4. It's better not to promise, than to promise and not to redeem.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u270	Madam President. 50PLUS is deeply disappointed by the defence of the rulers. What a sad show. It remains a complete mystery how this cabinet can sign a third expensive financial adventure with Greece. Trust is minimal, as the Prime Minister himself says. Then you don't do this. For the citizen in his own country, the cabinet is fatal against open-ended schemes, uncertain investments and blank cheques, but no, not when it comes to the Greeks. Then they throw another 5 billion into a black hole with their eyes open and they plunge us back into a completely insecure adventure. A donkey doesn't hit the same stone twice, but for the time being at least three times in this cabinet. It is an insult to the citizen, who has to cough up the tax dollars. It is indigestible for people, especially the elderly and beneficiaries, who see their purchasing power fall year by year. It is worrying to see how pensions evaporate there and that health care is now being avoided because it is becoming too expensive. For this reason, 50PLUS will wholeheartedly support the motions that oppose this third package of aid to Greece.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u271	Thank you. Mr Kuzu has waived the floor. I call Mrs Ouwehand of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u272	Mr. Chairman. The Minister of Finance tried to explain to the Chamber a little bit that it is no different and that it would be very pragmatic and sensible to support the loan package as well. Yes, pragmatically from the situation that you want to stick to that currency union that is so unwise at all costs. So we're not gonna fall for that. The Animal Party supports the motions that reject the package for the reasons mentioned in the first term. We would like the cabinet to use exit scenarios. Now, don't hold onto a system that you know is jammed. It's just gonna be ugly, and all that comes with is lies. There is a similar motion by the Christian Union and the SGP on a grexit. The PvdD supports them, but only if the Greeks ask for them themselves. We therefore ask the Cabinet to put its efforts into preparing it and to ensure that such a scenario is in place, but it is up to the Greeks themselves. Because this motion gives the impression that we are going to push the Greeks out of the euro zone without their own control, we cannot support it. The cabinet continues to pretend that the package before it is a lifeline for the Greeks, while in reality it is a trap. It shouldn't be surprising that the Party for Animals doesn't like covens at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u273	Mr. Chairman. The Prime Minister has indeed broken many election promises. €1,000, strict asylum policy and the PvdA was a danger because it was not compatible. We have forgotten one today and that is Volkert van der Graaf. The minister or secretary of state who would release Volkert van der Graaf, the murderer of Pim Fortuyn, would be fired immediately. That is also a promise from the Prime Minister. And, of course, no support for Greece. Enough reason not to trust Rutte II anymore. That seems clear to us. Of course, we do not support the third aid package. I've got the next few motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the government intends to agree to additional billions of aid to Greece;]] [[calls on the government, in no way, now and in the future, to agree to debt cancellations,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bontes. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-21501-07-1303]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u274	The next motion is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the government intends to agree to additional billions of aid to Greece;]] [[calls on the Government not to accept debt relief in any way by adjusting the maturity and interest rates of the loans to Greece,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bontes. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-21501-07-1304]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u275	Mr. Chairman. I shall begin with the two questions that have been asked. Mr Van der Staaij asked a question to the Minister for Finance on Sunday's closure. I would like to inform you that we are waiting for a court ruling on this matter in Greece itself. Once there is, the Minister of Finance will inform the Chamber. He will refer to this moment in the second term and Mr Van der Staaij's question, so that it is clear that the question will be answered. The second and last question to be answered is Mr Pechtold's question on the Five Presidents' Report. My answer is threatening to be a bit of a repetition of what I said in the first term. The Netherlands is taking a very active part in this debate. We do this because we think it is necessary for countries to comply with the agreements and have good institutions. We are moving together in Europe to a higher level of success, of prosperity. That is the ideal behind the eurozone. Of course, there is also a certain trend in some countries in Europe. Mr Pechtold mentioned four political leaders, but I can say that they think completely, but completely, differently. Nevertheless, they also have their ideas about it, as I do. We are very actively involved in it, but we are fully convinced that countries must abide by the agreements and that we must be extremely careful to see that a movement is created in which we decide at some point on the transfer of powers, after which countries do not comply with the agreements and thus have a licence to make the transfer union a reality. The whole of Greece package is precisely in the context of combating a transfer union. That is why Greece must also meet these serious requirements. The cabinet will therefore always look through these glasses at the proposals. That is why we were not in favour of the proposals for a shock absorption fund at some point, where the Netherlands would have to pay for, for example, the increase in WW in other countries. It all has to do with each other. I would like to say to Mr Pechtold that I am very much looking forward to the further discussion on this subject. I'm getting to the motions. Mr Wilders' motion for a resolution (Doc. 1297 I advise. We are acting in the interests of the Netherlands. The motion in part No. 1298 I also advise against. In my view, I have given all the arguments for this in the debate. The motion in part No. 1299 is unnecessary. We're not asking for permission. Nor is that the procedure, just as Article 100 does not seek agreement. The motion in part No. 1299, which explicitly supports the support package for Greece, is therefore superfluous and is therefore discouraged by the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u276	That's very special. It's not about that at all. It is about whether the Chamber shows that, after this debate and the difficult period that preceded it, it does not 'vote' but'support'. That's why I'm writing the word "support" in the motion. If the cabinet is going to discourage this motion now, I wonder why. Mr President, you have to help me: would it be because a number of VVDs would have to raise their hands for a third aid package? I would say: Prime Minister, embrace the motion, because you cannot but count on support for the package.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u277	And the question is whether I should recommend the motion. I'm dissuading the motion from constitutional considerations. Nor do we have the tradition of having a vote of confidence in the new office following a declaration of government. In the Article 100 procedure, the Chamber weighs and watches with regard to foreign missions, but does not have to express explicit support. Same here. I find the motion in part No. 1299 really too vulnerable, I say to Mr Pechtold of D66, who I find mostly on my side when it comes to constitutional purity.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u278	Someone asked me, "Are you making any motions?" I said: well, actually someone should support the fact that the cabinet is doing this, but that won't be necessary, because then the cabinet says "fine" and the VVD, the PvdA and D66 simply vote for it. The one who told me to do it said, "Bet they're gonna turn and crawl." That starts now, actually, because the Prime Minister says: it is not necessary, because it is not necessary under state law, because we do not do it in Article 100 missions. No, it is even stronger: in Article 100 missions, all group chairmen come forward in the third term and then express support for the troops. So we do it even harder. That won't be necessary. It's important when it comes to big things. I would ask the cabinet again what is behind this motion, in which I call for support for the intention to make the package available, to be discouraged.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u279	I gave the argument. She's state-of-the-art vulnerable. The information protocol on (ESM-related) crisis measures in the euro area is clear on this point. If a new government enters, there will be no motion of confidence. Then no group chairmen will even come forward saying: I give explicit confidence in this government. So I'm maintaining my advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u280	Mr President, may I have a third opportunity? I wasn't quite finished. This motion is not really up to the cabinet at all, but to the Chamber. I don't want any judgment from the cabinet. We're just expressing support. It's not gonna happen that just D66 is gonna vote for that motion, is it? I'd think that was really weird. Or is it said to the PvdA again, "Do it, for then it will not reach a majority." This is a weird guy, you know! I don't think anyone's gonna understand. Let's not talk about it. We are simply going to vote on it without advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u281	The beauty of this debate is that everyone understands it very well. I stand in the tradition of the foreman of Democrats '66 when I say that we have constitutional purity here. That theme is "not available from stock anymore and lying in the window" as he once said, but in the genes of that party this theme is present. I want to prevent the Chamber from taking new, vulnerable roads under state law. So I maintain my opinion that I find the motion superfluous and dissuade her.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u282	This is again the Prime Minister's own political reality. We all know that he is doing this to ensure that the VVD can vote against the motion. The Prime Minister can be honest about that, can't he? He wants to prevent the VVD from having to vote in favour of him. Then the VVD can continue to say to the electorate that it did not support the Pechtold motion. That is the reality behind it. When it comes to political purity, we really need to play it exactly. The Chamber, at least some of its members, needs to support a proposal. That's up to that room itself. That's not up to the Prime Minister. If it was a request which the cabinet did not wish to make, the cabinet could advise against it. The question of what is politically pure is up to parliament, not to its guests, now the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u283	This is also vulnerable to state law, because the Chamber is the government's controller and the implementation of government policy. We are co-legislators when it comes to constitutional questions and related issues relating to legislative proposals. Then we are jointly responsible for a purely constitutional dialogue. I think it is my duty, from my advisory role on motions tabled, to draw the House's attention to this. Furthermore, it is of course always up to the political groups to consider whether or not the opinion of the cabinet should be taken into account. My advice at the moment is clear: the motion must be discouraged, because it is superfluous.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u284	It just doesn't make sense what the Prime Minister says. If a motion is superfluous, there is no reason at all to discourage it. It's kind of weird that a motion shouldn't be recommended in the first place. We've talked about that before. I said earlier that that is because the Prime Minister would make it easier for his own coalition to vote against. We've been through that before. This also applies here. We now know that the VVD is about to vote against because of what the Prime Minister has said here. That's what's happening here. I am sorry, but that has nothing to do with political purity, because purity is that the Chamber is about whether it wishes to express support. Then the Prime Minister can receive it without having to do anything with it. All he has to do is take it in. Even if the motion had not been adopted, the political reality is that the Prime Minister will receive support if a majority does not vote against it. That is true, but well, this has to do with a purely political attitude to make it easy for the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u285	Mr Buma explained exactly what was happening at the end of his speech. I fully agree with that. The Chamber could say no. That is a political fact. On the other hand, the Chamber does not have to say yes, even more so, it is vulnerable under state law. That is why my opinion, as Mr Buma has just said, is superfluous and therefore not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u286	The Prime Minister refers to the ESM information protocol. I just took it in real quick. Does the Prime Minister want to state very precisely where it is precisely that it is not a matter of explicitly asking for support from the House of Representatives?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u287	There is only talk of an exchange of views. On these issues, it is good practice that the Chamber, whether it is Article 100 or motions of confidence or these issues, does the government's views in the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u288	I appreciate the Prime Minister's reply to a question from Mr Pechtold, but I asked him about the information protocol on which he bases himself. Could the Prime Minister please indicate where we can find that this is not normally appropriate?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u289	I just gave that answer to Mr Klaver a second ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u290	Then I didn't hear it right. That's definitely going to be my fault. Was there a page number I could pick up?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u291	Again, I refer to the previous answer. I'm coming to the Van Haersma Buma c.s. motion. in piece No. 1300. It calls on the government not to agree to the third aid package. For all the reasons that have already been exchanged in the debate, I would advise against this motion. The same applies to the motion in part No. 1301 in which the government is asked not to agree to the third loan package. In the motion in part No. Mr Roemer's 1302 is about rejecting the agreement that has been concluded. I also advise against this motion. I will not go into it now, but I think a number of considerations are controversial. I would advise against the motion for the reasons I have just mentioned. The motion in part No. 1303 is policy support and therefore unnecessary. I don't recommend that motion. For the motion in part No. 1304 I refer to what Mr Dijsselbloem said about this earlier in the debate. I advise against this motion for reasons of substance. I therefore believe that I have given advice to all eight motions for resolutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u292	What was the opinion on the motion on item No. 1303? Was it dissuaded?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u293	Yeah, that motion is unnecessary, and that's why I dissuaded her.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u294	We are going to vote today on the motions that have been tabled. Some parties have informed me that they need a suspension. I suggest we vote in half an hour, at 5:35 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u295	Perhaps the best thing for me to do now is to announce that I am requesting a roll-call vote on my motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-08-19-tweedekamer-5.u296	I would also like a roll-call vote on our motion of censure.
