ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u1	Mr. Chairman. Over 3,000 people die of an occupational disease every year. According to records from the Long Alliance, 2,000 of them die working with harmful substances. They are therefore going to have an occupational disease. Every year thousands of healthy years of life are lost due to lung diseases due to unfavourable working conditions. According to the inspection, more than one million workers in the workplace are exposed to toxic substances every day. And now the diesel smoke is added. A week ago, a report from the Health Council on the risk of workers being exposed to diesel smoke was reported in the NOS Journal. Last Sunday night this was a big item in The Monitor. Does the Minister agree with me that these are very disturbing reports? Are the reports of diesel smoke new to him? In the broadcast of De Monitor the spokesperson of the Municipal Transport Company was discussed. He indicated that the CFP was willing to do something for the many sick drivers, who often do not even get their pensions, but also that the CFP needs proof that this is because of diesel smoke. To what extent can the Minister even better support employers in the future in the recognition and prevention of occupational diseases? What does he think of last week's Long Fund ruling that the diesel age should be over? Is the Minister prepared to set a strict standard for diesel smoke in the short term and the extent to which workers may be exposed to it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. Indeed, these are disturbing messages. Diesel smoke is dangerous. In particular, particles from old diesel engines can cause damage. It is important that employers ensure that people at work are not exposed to high concentrations of smoke. It is their primary responsibility to ensure a healthy workplace. Yeah, I want to set a legal limit for working with diesel smoke. For this I need two things: a clear advice from the Health Council and a translation by the ESC. The advice discussed in the NOS Journal was not from our Health Council, but from The Nordic Expert Group, a kind of Scandinavian Health Council. Our Health Council will deliver an opinion on this in 2016. I'll take that to the Economic and Social Council. Then it can be translated into a strict limit value for Dutch companies. Until then, employers remain responsible for ensuring that their employees can do the work in healthy working conditions. What can you do to support companies in doing so? We've already sent a letter about work-related care before. It's translated into a bill. Two things are important in that. First of all, the position of the company doctor himself is becoming stronger. If an occupational doctor is on the track of an occupational disease, he can forcefully transfer it to the company. The distribution of information to sectors and professions is also under way. When one company discovers a disease that seems to be related to the work, it is shared with other companies. Then you can better design a preventive policy to prevent people from getting sick. Is the time of diesel over? At least the time of these old diesel engines is over. They're dangerous. In the case of new engines, the concentration of harmful particles is significantly lower. Employers have a major responsibility to reduce exposure in sectors where this type of old engine is still being used.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u3	I welcome what the Minister has said about diesel, especially when it comes to old diesel engines. He claims that they cause a lot of damage, but it was not yet known that it is so serious. Is the Minister prepared to identify which factors hinder healthy working in any case and to take a broad action to deal with sickening working conditions just as hard as they are? More and more stories are emerging about how sick people are getting from their work, not always because the employer may not do what he has to do, although this is also a regular occurrence, let us not forget that, but also because more and more scandals are emerging. It's diesel smoke now. Can the Minister draw up a comprehensive action plan and indicate what his objectives are in terms of preventing occupational diseases and helping people who are currently ill as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u4	Sure, we're already working on that. That's what that letter to the Chamber was about. It discusses what you can do with the inspection, the company doctors, the regular health care and the social partners to further reduce occupational diseases, recognise them quickly and protect workers from them. This is an important social objective that everyone agrees with. We're working hard on that. There are therefore a number of improvements to the Chamber. Think also of the right of employees to ask for a second opinion from someone other than their own company doctor, precisely because of the need for an independent opinion. Mrs Tanamal is also right about the other point. It's very difficult to claim your damage as a sick employee. Often a very long legal process is needed to demonstrate the link. Sometimes you don't see it anymore, because sometimes it's so dramatic with occupational diseases. It's been known for a long time. I find it interesting to see the possibility of designating an independent body for this purpose. That was also advocated. As far as I am concerned, in the coming months, we are going to take stock of the legal gaps and eyes. I am in favour of looking at how we can support the individual sick worker who is seriously ill as a result of an occupational disease in obtaining his right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u5	I have, of course, read the report on the proposal for an independent institute. I am pleased that the Minister is in any case in favour of supporting people who want to get their rights. This could be a nice step. I hope that the Minister will be able to come to the Chamber as soon as possible with his views on this independent institution, so that we can get to work on it as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u6	In January, I will talk to the Chamber about work-related care. What can we improve in that? What can be done about this from the various sections? In the second quarter of 2016, I have an opinion on the independent institute. That's what's being looked at. After the summer we will be able to discuss this in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u7	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u8	The characteristic of an occupational disease is that we know a lot about it. In fact, therefore, we could prevent occupational diseases. This year the Bureau of Occupational Diseases of the FNV exists for fifteen years. The Minister says he will come next year with a limit value for diesel smoke, but why does he not call on all Dutch employers with a company where diesel cars are driven in and where diesel engines are running in, to replace these things and to carry in trucks, buses electrically? That's prevention.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u9	Sure. I welcome the renewed attention being paid to this problem, because the diesel smoke from old diesel engines is extremely dangerous. That is why I began my reply by pointing out that employers are already legally obliged, even without a legal limit, to limit exposure to diesel smoke to a technical minimum for their workers. So I would not have to make that appeal to the employers, but here I am doing it: make sure that you, as an employer, respect your legal responsibility and that you do not expose people to diesel smoke. We all understand that, in a garage where old diesel engines need to be maintained, you cannot reduce the prevention of diesel smoke to zero, but then too, as an employer, you can do a lot to prevent exposure. I very much agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-3.u10	Thank you for your answers and for coming to the Chamber.
