ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u1	I would like to say that Mr Van Dekken is being added to the list of speakers. I would like to welcome the Minister and his officials. We are starting this legislative debate with Mrs Helder speaking for the PVV group. She has announced that she will speak for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, there are still many cases of football vandalism and other forms of serious nuisance. The PVV wants those who screw up for the rest to be tackled hard, so that real supporters can continue to enjoy a game of football. The PVV therefore welcomes the fact that the Minister is building on the PVV, CDA and PvdA initiative paper (33281), which has already proposed useful improvements, and that the Minister has made this proposal of law to remove the identified bottlenecks in the Football Vandalism and Serious Burden Act; we call it the football law. What can the mayor do now? In the event of repeated disruption of public order and serious fears of further disruption, he can already impose a ban on areas, a ban on groups and a reporting obligation. In practice, however, as has been said, bottlenecks have been identified by the field of work. I'm talking about the police, the mayors, the KNVB and the pay-per-view football organizations, the bvo's. The bill we are discussing today tightens up the football law on a number of points. For example, the ban on the territory, the ban on the group and the reporting obligation will also be possible in the case of a so-called "first offender'. This is conditional on a serious disturbance of public policy. These instruments can also be applied on the basis of a stadium ban imposed by the KNVB or a paid football organisation. Previously this could only be done if there was a disturbance of public order or abuses outside the stadium. Furthermore, an area or group ban can currently be imposed for the duration of 30 consecutive days. This is changed to 90 days spread over one year. The PVV welcomes the fact that the mayor can also use his authority when it comes to a first offender. Unfortunately, the Minister adds that this is only possible if it is a serious disturbance of public order. The example in the explanatory memorandum refers to throwing stones or fireworks to the police. As far as PVV is concerned, the mayor should be able to impose a territorial or group ban or a reporting obligation even in the event of minor disturbances. Who decides what a serious disturbance is? That is quite dependent on the circumstances of the case. As far as PVV is concerned, it is chosen for fans who want to watch a game of football and for residents who do not want to experience any inconvenience. Let us be clear: this bill also aims to combat serious nuisance. I am thinking of events, New Year's Eve and nightlife violence. The government indicates that the restriction "serious nuisance" does not apply to persons repeatedly involved in disturbances. In the opinion of the PVV, this is not clear from the proposed article of law. Does the Minister share this opinion and if so, will he amend the article? As far as PVV is concerned, the word "serious" simply goes out and it is left to the courts to decide what is covered in the individual case or what a mayor considers necessary. It is also proposed that, in addition to the fact that, in the event of a conviction, the criminal court may impose a so-called 'freedom-limiting measure' consisting of a ban on the territory, a ban on contact or a notification, he should now also be given the power to impose a territorial order, for example in the form of house arrest, not as at present only as a special condition. The maximum duration of the restrictions on freedom is also increased from two to five years. We agree with that. However, I should like to make a critical remark, because if a person is to be banned for the second time, the court must have the opportunity to impose this measure for a maximum period of 10 years. This has already been mentioned by the PVV together with CDA and PvdA in the above-mentioned own-initiative paper. As I understand it, we can all see that Mr Oskam has tabled an amendment on this, which my group will certainly support. Mr Oskam will discuss this later. The PVV further wonders how it is now with the penalty for ignoring a stadium ban or reporting obligation. This point was also mentioned in the own-initiative paper. It has previously been shown that the penalty imposed for ignoring a stadium ban, or ignoring the reporting obligation, is a thorn in the eye for many. As far as possible for the Minister, I ask him what he will do about this. Furthermore, I do not, of course, miss a moment to draw attention to the well-known proposals of my group. That is why I am taking up this debate again to advocate the use of camera images and photos in the context of detection. Some time ago, VVD and CDA filed a bad copy of the PVV's motion requesting to investigate how camera images can be effectively used in detection and prosecution, taking into account the right to privacy of a suspect. That was the bad part of the copy, because the PVV says, "If you want privacy, don't commit a crime." Nevertheless, we are curious about the state of play on this motion, because the Minister has made a commitment to it. Finally, I come to the question of group liability. The inspection report shows that the KNVB and the police want the principle "if you are part of it then you are part of it" to be applied. They want more opportunities to act against those who do not do something demonstrably themselves, but by being part of a group of troublemakers or by not explicitly distancing themselves from it, encourage the other group members verbally or by their presence in their behaviour. Unfortunately, this request by these experts in this field is not being met, because the Minister considers the current measures sufficient. He also referred to Article 141 of the Code of Criminal Law, which criminalises public violence. It will not be surprising: the PVV does not agree with this. But given our initiative proposal on group liability, that will not surprise anyone anymore. Hopefully the Minister will finally see the need for the initiative. If so, the PVV will naturally be happy to help him by giving him the opportunity to deal with it very quickly by simply supporting our amendment which has already been tabled. That amendment lays down that the Code of Criminal Law is to be amended. For the sake of completeness, however, the following. Firstly, the police and KNVB have found that the current measures are not sufficient. Secondly, Article 141 of the Code of Criminal Law makes public violence a criminal offence, but a conviction requires proof that there is an "intention to the association of open violence." Furthermore, the person concerned must have "made a significant contribution." Of course, that's a lot more than "if you're in it, you're in it." Thirdly, the current Article 172a of the Municipal Law does not regulate this either. It only says something about the group-by-group disruption of public order and does not say anything about causing damage to persons and/or matters. In addition, group disruption implies an active role of the group members: standing by or standing by after a warning from the police on this matter is, in the opinion of the PVV, therefore out of the question. Rounding up. The PVV does agree with strengthening or supplementing the measures, but sees this as a small step in the right direction. Because we are certainly not yet in the process of dealing with these problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u3	Mr. Chairman. I remember when Feyenoord visited NAC Breda in the nineties. Breda was a fortress back then. The containers were piled up high for fear of what was to come. That wasn't entirely wrong either. As a 12-year-old boy, along with my mother, I've had to run for riots and flying rocks. In recent years much has changed and improved in the fight against football vandalism and nuisance. I saw this myself recently when I saw the security measures and the whole situation at a ADO Den Haag home game. However, I would like to stress that, on the whole, it is still far from good enough. It is unacceptable for events such as football matches to be dealt with. No, it's not something that goes with it. We won't and won't get used to this. It's criminal behavior, and that needs to be addressed. Soccer has to be another party for the real fans, for young and old. People should be carefree and without fear that football party with their children can visit. The aim must therefore be for football to be a party again, without all kinds of obstructive measures taken by the real fans, such as mandatory combi arrangements, search operations, caged supporters behind meters of fences and nets that hinder visibility. Does the Minister share that opinion? In what way is he committed to this? Now it is true that half of the games are subject to a compulsory bus combi. If you've ever been with a combo like this, you know this isn't funny. First you have to come to a certain place, then you are searched, then you are on the bus and then you have to, with a bit of bad luck, through steel tunnels and along fences to the outskirts that are covered with plastic walls and nets to prevent throwing and throwing. What we need to go to is standardisation. What is this minister's ambition now? When can you normally visit a football game, an outfight? There's a trend break in football vandalism. At first we had the positive development of fewer and fewer incidents, but unfortunately that development stopped. The fear is it's gonna get worse again. I do not have the ambition of this Minister and the Minister for Sport, who is also involved in this, to really change this. All parties concerned must assume their responsibilities. We really need to pick out the troublemakers and criminals. Does the Minister agree with me? How's he gonna work this out and make it happen? However, we should not just talk about football. This law also applies to other forms of serious nuisance. It is not a football law, because also wheeldrivers who cause trouble with old and new, people who cause riots at festivals or nuisances in residential neighborhoods can be dealt with by this law. That's perfectly right. We only passed this law a few years ago, which is now being tightened up. I can imagine the criticism of the Council of State somewhere. In general, the SP usually shares the criticism that you have to let a law do its job properly first, that you then thoroughly evaluate it and that you then start to think about any tightenings and changes. Does the law do its job? Is there a need for tightening up? Or should we just repeal the law? In this particular case, the SP supports the Minister's choice not to wait until years have passed with these changes. There are now clear bottlenecks which are being considered by virtually all the advisory bodies. At present, limited action can be taken against first offenders. There is a need for the possibility to impose an area ban on you, so that you are freed of various football matches from certain troublemakers. The cooperation between mayors is not going smoothly enough now. The area ban has not yet been clearly regulated, as has the digital reporting obligation. The SP supports the fact that these matters are now being better regulated. It must be said straight away that, of course, it is a question of a careful approach to implementation. If the mayors were too enthusiastic about using various powers, the prohibitions would not stand up in court. So it really comes down to the care and file building in the implementation. Can the Minister respond to the public prosecutor's fears expressed in his opinion that the imposition of a substantial measure on a first offender might not stand in court because it would not be proportionate? I come to the strengthening of civil measures with administrative measures. If the KNVB imposes a stadium ban, a municipality can strengthen that measure by also imposing an area ban, notification obligation or group ban. I understand this proposal very well. The SP believes that a stadium ban should be combined with an area ban around a stadium and with a reporting obligation, so that we are sure that the person is not still present in the stadium. I see that by letter of amendment the General Measure of Management has been deleted. I understand the Minister's arguments, but what is the result of this? What decisions by civil organisations can now be reinforced by municipalities by an administrative measure? What if a cafe owner or the organizer of a festival comes forward? What does a city do? In short, what are the consequences of the removal of this AMvB, which means that it will no longer be specified what type of sanction by which private organisations can use as the basis for an administrative measure for what type of abuse? I have an important question about the evidence and the file. That is illustrated by an anecdote. In a stadium there is a small fight, in which some boys are attacked. A person breaks his wrist and reports to the police. After interrogation of the suspects, those suspects also report, because the victims defended themselves and also gave a blow. Next, the KNVB imposes a stadium ban on all perpetrators and victims. That is already a severe punishment, also because it involves a heavy fine, but for those victims it is harsh and unjust. How can we prevent these victims from being dealt with by the municipality in the future by strengthening the civil measure with the administrative measure, a ban on territory and a reporting obligation? That would really be very far-reaching, and then you have to be absolutely sure that this person can be seriously blamed. So what demands do we make on the evidence? What demands does the municipality make on the evidence and the file? I can imagine that we will only do this if we are absolutely certain, for example by camera images, what exactly happened. I'd like to get a comprehensive response to this. True rioters are, of course, just criminals and they must also be treated like criminals. That's gonna require a BOLO. Sometimes there's an organized connection behind it, and then there's a need to be re-created to find out. But even after a riot, it's important that every criminal gets caught if possible. Crime must be punished. We really have to deal with this small group of evildoers if we really want to make a party for the more than 99% benevolent supporters. The SP therefore supports the KNVB's call. Better a platoon of detectives than a platoon of MEs. A platoon of MEs is sometimes needed, but in fact they can only punch back and drive groups apart. A detective can track down and arrest the criminal, so he gets his deserved punishment, and over the next few days or months or years, depending on the seriousness, is no longer able to kick any more crap. What is the Minister's response to the call: rather a platoon of detectives than a platoon of MEs? I have the impression that the clubs and the KNVB are doing a lot about it right now. The possibilities they have, such as the imposition of stadium bans, are fully exploited. But these civil stadium bans are not really intended for the serious offences, such as serious abuse, major destruction, drug trafficking, etc. The criminal law should be around the corner, but too often it doesn't. Last year 662 stadium bans were imposed by clubs and KNVB, i.e. civil law. On top of that, it is very rare that something criminal should happen, which would often be obvious. In fact, it is sometimes even the case that the D.A. and the judge take into account that something has already happened in civil law. Somehow I understand that, but then there is an undesirable effect, namely that there is hardly a deterrent effect for the hooligans who ruin it for the good supporters. I'd like to know from the Minister how he feels about this. Does he share the view that the police and the public prosecutor should also act in the case of football-related offences? Why is that happening so little at the moment? Besides, I've got to get something off my chest. What about the capacity? I have already said that the SP is in favour of a large number of proposed amendments, because they have added value and there is a need for them. But isn't it also a lack of capacity and decisive action? How many criminal thugs do we already catch with the possibilities we have? How come it doesn't always happen consistently? The cuts on the police and the D.A.'s office aren't gonna make it any better either. Does the Minister wish to make a specific comment on this? What penalties do these real criminals end up getting? We know the examples of people who ruin it for thousands of others, who throw fireworks on the field or run into the field to attack an opponent or an referee. My suspicion is that these behaviours around football matches are still being dealt with in a limited way. If you look at it legally, throwing fireworks on the field or kicking a goalie, possibly destroying the field and endangerment or simple abuse is exactly what it isn't. It's a lot more than that. You interrupt a football party for thousands of people and you discredit football. One torch could lead to 50,000 people being searched next time. Of course, the danger situation is bigger in such a stadium. It must therefore be punished more severely than any arbitrary behaviour on the street. I know that in cases like this, the D.A.'s gonna demand heavier penalties. The question is, however, whether we in the Netherlands need to criminalise football-related behaviours that criminalise entering the playing field or throwing objects on the field. The SP has tabled a motion on this in the past. I also understand that this is not entirely in line with the system of the Code of Criminal Law, but the question is justified how we deal with this and how the Minister thinks about it. There is another side to this story: prevention. The minors or young adults who cause major problems, after all, they are usually young adults or minors who often have a problem of their own. They have a problem with alcohol and/or drugs, but at least with controlling aggression. Then it is too one-sided to put the emphasis on penalties, bans, etc. We also need to look at prevention. What brings anyone to this misconduct? And above all: how do we prevent recurrence? Does the Minister wish to respond to the SP's proposal, which standardizes whether aggression therapy or addiction treatment is needed? The question of how international competitions are going is still a matter of concern for the SP. How is cooperation between the authorities of the European countries going? Can the Minister say anything more about that? I've come across something strange that I'd like to get a response from the Minister. In the letter from the mayors who have a paid football organization in their municipality, I read that they need the new legal possibility to impose a reporting obligation for international matches of the club in another country, a kind of exit ban. So let's say that PSV plays for the Europacup, then the mayor wants to make sure that certain people report to Eindhoven on the day of the game and that they are not rioting in Bucharest. The Minister's reaction is that this is possible. "Good, this is solved," you think why don't the mayors who wrote this letter know that? Where did it go wrong in the cooperation? Or do they mean something else? I'm afraid the latter. If the Minister means that they should seek cooperation with the mayor of the foreign city who would then have to apply to his Dutch colleague, I wonder if this is convenient and efficient. If this is not the case, we must look at how we deal with it. Is the mayors' call for an exit ban perhaps a sensible proposal? I'd like to get a reaction to this. Finally, cooperation between authorities is and remains crucial. The clubs, the KNVB, the police, the public prosecutors, the municipalities and the government: everyone will have to do a lot to stop giving the rioters a chance and make sure that football becomes a party again. Above all, we must avoid pointing the finger at each other again, as has been done in the past: the clubs feel that the police are doing too little, that the police think that too little is happening with the information they provide to OM and municipalities, who then think that the clubs are doing too little. That's not how we get there. Does the Minister share this view? Is he prepared to continue to address the partners concerned on their responsibilities, even after this law has been dealt with?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u4	Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing the amendment of the so-called football law. That law only entered into force four years ago, but it needs to be amended now. It's a good thing this is happening. The CDA Group supports this amendment, which largely builds on the initiative paper of Mr De Mos, Mr Van Dekken, and Mr Çörüz. Honor to all who deserve credit. The CDA Group believes that it must be clear that violence in and around the stadium is not tolerated. There were a number of important problems in practice. We welcome what is now being removed, but we are still seeking to tighten up a number of aspects, hence the amendments announced. A comprehensive report from the WODC has recently been published on the operation of measures against violence and nuisance in paid football. This report shows that the number of incidents has been stable over the last 10 years. However, I heard this morning that an increase is expected for 2015. The findings of the WODC are good news in themselves, but the incidents that are there are often violent. We can all remember the images of the storming of the Maasgebouw near Feyenoord and the incidents at Ajax-Celtic and Utrecht-FC Twente. Another aspect of the report is also of concern to the CDA Group. Problems remain with the behaviour of hard cores and notorious troublemakers. In the eyes of benevolent supporters, these groups are hardly addressed. This is due to fear and lack of guts among payment football organisations, lack of guts and direction in municipalities and lack of priority and capacity in the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office. Professionals confirm that. That's a harsh conclusion. Despite the fact that we are now reasonably in agreement, there is still enough work to be done by all parties. Mr Van Nispen said it was a matter of KNVB, clubs, police, prosecutors and politics. We have to deal with the troublemakers. What is the Minister's response to the report's conclusion that there is a lack of available capacity in the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office? What contribution can this bill make to reducing football violence? An important aspect is the measures provided for in Article 172a of the Municipal Act. These could not be applied to so-called first-offers. It's been said before. Fortunately, this bill makes that possible. That's good. The Minister distinguishes between serious and not serious disturbance of public order, but both falls under the category of "fault behavior." The latter reassures the CDA Group. The consequence of the distinction is that the imposition of a land ban, a group ban, a contact ban or a reporting obligation cannot be applied in the event of less serious disturbances. The CDA Group wonders whether this is not a missed opportunity. Does it not bear witness to lick-on-piece policy to impose a firm sanction even in the event of seemingly less serious disturbances, whether or not on top of the club's ban on stadiums? The KNVB advocates not only applying the civil law stadium bans, but also allowing the mayor and the criminal court to take action, because that deters them. The idea that someone has a criminal record and then gets into trouble with their employer or when they get a mortgage, chops into it and scares them to do this kind of annoying stuff. I am also thinking of verbal violence, such as choirs. It provokes other violence, because it often triggers violence on the other side. Another point we get back from the police is that directions from police officers in and around the stadium are not being followed. We also believe that there is a need for considerable action. The Minister previously wrote that certain behavior around the football game at that time does not necessarily have to be classified as a disturbance of public order, whereas that same behavior on a quiet Sunday afternoon in a small village centre would be judged as such. On the other hand, the CDA Group says that visiting a football match should not be a free pass to behave antisocially, intolerantly and beastly. I would like to hear a response from the Minister to this distinction, which he himself made in his letter. It is good that first-offers can now also be dealt with by administrative law. It is also a good thing that criminal law has extended the duration of the measures available. However, the CDA Group would like to see the bar set even higher, to stay in sports terms, if hooligans go wrong for the second time. In criminal law, that's not unusual. If you go to court for the second time, you're a recidivist. You haven't learned from your previous sentence, so you're going through harder. In the view of the CDA Group, if hooligans break a ban on territory or have a duty to report to their boots and cause unrest again, it is fair to impose the same measure for up to ten years. No mercy on hooligans who deliberately go wrong again. I would like to hear a response from the Minister to this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u5	I have seen two amendments. The first is very much to my liking, the second is the amendment to which Mr Oskam refers, namely that the penalty period of five years will be ten years. Apart from the fact that ten years is more than five, I would like to know the ratio behind those ten years. I'm open to it, but I'm interested in the argumentation. Why is this increase proposed?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u6	It's about hooligans committing crimes. If they are submitted to the criminal court, they may impose a stadium ban, a restraining order or a reporting obligation. If within five years after you've been convicted, you commit serious crimes again during and around a football game, it just needs to be done. People like that don't have the right to be in a stadium. We simply want to be very clear in that: then only a few seasons do not go to a stadium. As far as we are concerned, we are talking about five years in the case of first-offers. You do it again, it's your turn.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u7	I agree that there is a need for firm action, but five years has already been a considerable period. What justifies them for ten years? Why ten years? That period is almost incalculable.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u8	I can draw a parallel to normal criminal law, because I myself have been active as a criminal. What if you're punishing someone and that punishment doesn't work? Let's say someone's gonna beat that punishment. That means next time you'll punish harder. The same applies to a football stadium. When a judge tells a supporter that he can't be in a football stadium for five years and in the meantime this supporter commits another serious criminal offence, such as throwing stones at the ME, throwing fireworks bombs or storming the Meuse Building, what can a judge do but punish even more severely? You can impose a stadium ban on someone for two, three, four or five years, but no, then it must be equally clear. Football is a show. It's a form of culture. People enjoy it. People who screw this up don't have to be there. I believe that a person who has been sentenced to five years by the judge and who has shit about it should be dealt with.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u9	I think it's an interesting point. I share Mr Oskam's ambition to tackle these issues more strictly. However, it is a measure imposed by a judge in addition to a sentence. It's not really a sanction on what you've done. It's more that the judge, based on what you've done, thinks you might be able to repeat this fact. Isn't it wiser to do it in blocks of five years, especially as we make it possible to prevent people in the sixth year if I keep Mr Oskam's example for a while by means of an administrative measure? Aren't we doing the same thing on both sides? Mr Oskam's former colleagues have already said that it is going to be very double-up. This might put criminal law into the background, because we are already doing a lot with administrative law and preventive action.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u10	Punishment must make sense. Part of it's got payback in it. If you do something bad to someone else, you'll be punished for it. For football supporters we often see that this penalty is translated into a fine or into a community service. If it's very bad, it'll be translated into prison. You can hit soccer supporters in their hearts. They want to go to those football games, but they're not going to watch football, they're going to riot. If the judge says that a stadium ban is granted for five years and that a serious mistake is made again within that period, I think it should be made clear. Then people really need to be excluded for a longer period. So I am not so much in favour of Mr Dijkhoff's proposal to do it in five-year blocks. With this bill, we can do that. We're going from two to five years. As far as I am concerned, it must be equally clear to those who cause serious nuisance and repeat themselves. The judge who's looking at it can weigh it up. What did the KNVB do? What did the mayor do? What did the police do? Then it's up to the judge to make a decision. That's not up to us. However, give the judge the opportunity and the power, if there is a real need to do so, to keep people out of a stadium for a long time. I'm sure this one's gonna weigh in on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u11	I get it. Mr Oskam talks about punishment all the time, but it comes next to punishment. It's also about looking ahead. I think we just don't agree that ten years ahead is a long way to go. Is the distinction between a punishment and a preventive, forward-looking measure not so relevant to Mr Oskam?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u12	The point is that it's a favor to go to football. You pay money for it and you enjoy a football game like that. We all want families with kids to just go to a football game. It is clear that people who throw chairs, lighters or stones do not belong in that stadium. At some point, you can punish yourself. I don't think an 80-hour community service would impress you, but a five or ten-year stadium ban would.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u13	I support Mr Oskam's intention, but we must, of course, do something that works. In Mr Oskam's view, it would be justified if, over a period of five years, a person fails to comply with the criminal-law ban on criminal territory, to impose a criminal-law ban on that person for ten years as a measure. However, I would ask Mr Oskam that you be given replacement custody if you do not comply with it. Instead of having a stadium ban, you're just gonna go to jail. Isn't that more effective?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u14	The amendment takes into account the situation that, in the meantime, in the five years following the conviction, someone commits a similar fact. I'm not talking about once again not sticking to the restraining order, but about things like throwing stones at the police again, storming the Meuse Building, making threats or waiting for a trainer, stalking and threatening like Dwight Lodeweges did because he went from Cambuur to Heerenveen. The people who continue to do so despite a conviction, I want to deal with.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u15	I understand that, but I can't imagine you throwing rocks or storming the Meuse building without violating the measure imposed on you. So that's where my question comes from, but maybe we'll talk past each other. I think you have to violate your restraining order in order to be able to commit similar crimes at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u16	That's right. It's all football-related, of course. However, it can also be old-and-new-related. We are talking about football now, but Mr Van Nispen himself said that this bill goes much further. If you do this kind of thing with old and new, this can happen, of course. A mayor or a criminal can make that custom-made. Think of a land ban for a certain period of time or for certain people. This can of course apply to the Meuse Building if you have stormed it again, but it can also apply to another place, for example with Willem II or Roda.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u17	I have a question for Mr Oskam. What about the English model, the Hooligan Act?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u18	That's a long way to go. I understand it's successful, but it's also shady. I'm satisfied with this bill. I think that for the time being, over the next few years, we will be able to cope with that. My two amendments are only intended to give the mayors, who are asking for more handles and tools, a slightly longer period of time and to ensure that the criminal court can deal with people who deliberately recidivize, just go on and ignore everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u19	I have one more question for Mr Oskam. If he sells the stricter legislation he advocates against the ideal of all of us, namely standardisation, does he think it will work in this way?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u20	I hope so. That is, of course, the approach. But it's mainly about behavior. People need to realize that what they do or do to another cannot be done. Sometimes you just need strict measures for that. Even after today, people need to realize that if you come into contact with the criminal justice system and are convicted, you will have a criminal record and that this will also have consequences for your social life. So we have to take care of that together. It concerns enforcement by the clubs, enforcement by the police, co-thinking by the KNVB and making capacity available to the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office. I think we should get it out of there. I will continue my speech. The KNVB and the paid football mayors have asked whether the administrative measures, such as an area ban, can apply for several years. In this way it can be avoided that a hooligan can start kicking again after one season and the government has to go after such a supporter. Why didn't the Minister meet that wish? It is striking that he thinks a longer term is conceivable, but that he sees no reason to do so. That's what's alienating the CDA group. After all, the bill did not come exclusively from the wish of the mayors and the KNVB, among others, to ban hooligans from the stadium area. I would like to hear from the Minister whether he can support the CDA Group's proposal to extend the maximum duration after three years. I would like to refer to another measure mentioned in the proposal: the possibility of applying administrative measures in other municipalities as well. Colleague Van Nispen said it already: that spread is very good, because if you are not allowed to join ADO, you can of course go to an outing at FC Twente. The CDA Group is very much in favour of this. In this way, hooligans in other football cities can be prevented from causing unrest. The note on the report shows that the Minister still has some caution on this point. As far as the CDA Group is concerned, it is not only a theoretical possibility, but an excellent opportunity to ban a hooligan in all football cities. The Minister is not going to urge the mayor to do this. We don't really understand that very well. Why is he so reluctant? A premature evaluation of the football law has already shown that the mayors may have some fear of using certain new powers. As far as we are concerned, that can no longer be the case. We've been working on the football law for a number of years now. We are now going to tighten it up again and also think that the possibilities offered by the legislator should be used. Can the Minister emphasize the importance of this in the case of the so-called BVO mayors? Finally, I have four brief points. The first concerns the research carried out by the Football and Security Audit Team on the security approach to European home games. Some Dutch supporters' cores then create major problems. I refer to the problem supporters of Ajax who made amok around the Champions-League competition against Celtic in Glasgow and who, when Celtic visited Amsterdam, were again actively looking for those supporters to provoke and fight. The audit team made nine recommendations. Some of them relate to the mission of the Minister for Security and Justice. First of all, Recommendation 4, the possibility of maintaining financially a database that European Member States have in the context of NFIP. The CDA Group would like to know if the Minister sees a role for himself and the Netherlands. Recommendation 5 looks at a tight direction around transport flows before and after the race. The question is whether the Minister will take this up with his colleague from Infrastructure and the Environment. Recommendation 6 deals with the importance of so-called spotters from abroad. Back in the day, policemen from London came along to escort Chelsea. The audit team indicates that foreign police teams no longer provide spotters at matches in the Netherlands for financial reasons. Is the Minister prepared to discuss this with his European colleagues? Recommendation 9 states that the police, together with the clubs, should work on file-forming of persons who give the Netherlands and football a bad name. Special attention should be paid to identifying and drawing up the young hard core, which in future will be the notorious troublemakers at football matches. How's the police handling this? The KNVB has done a pilot to investigate the possibilities of a digital reporting obligation. Can the Minister explain how that pilot went? A digital reporting obligation reduces the nuisance for the supporters. They have to report, but this can be done in a relatively user-friendly way. It's better for the police, too. The CDA Group also calls on the Minister to pay attention to the excessive use of alcohol and drugs in stadiums. Why didn't the clubs and the KNVB choose to use the Pro Supporter program in the Eredivisie, which also works well in the Jupiler League? We are pleased to receive a response to this. Finally, a comment about the possible influence of motorcycle gangs within the hard cores of fans of football clubs, about which something was written last week in the Algemeen Dagblad. In 2012, only one relationship between a football club and a motorcycle corridor was known to national police. Can the Minister confirm that five such partnerships are now involved? It would be Ajax, Feyenoord, Twente, Groningen and NEC. In what way is this cooperation disrupted by the police and what is the role of the clubs? What can they do? Will this issue also receive attention within the Minister's plans to tackle criminal motorcycle gangs?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u21	Mr. Chairman. Soccer is a beautiful sport, even if PSV loses once, as happened against Roda last night, or when PSV lost to PEC, my group chairman's favorite club in this season. That is small suffering, which I share with Mr Dijkhoff, but in the meantime we are at the top, so that is good. Football is a nice sport. It unites young and old, rich and poor, highly educated and low-educated around a beautiful game. But spoiling something nice is a terrible thing. Riots, big police deployment, having to search out ordinary fans, families who can't safely go to the stadium, keeping different groups of fans apart. These are things that shouldn't happen. Soccer must be about sports. Fighting, rioting and wrecking isn't one of them. A few years ago, the government extended the scope for tackling football vandalism and serious nuisance. My group then called for a proper evaluation. On the basis of the initial findings, the Minister now decides to amend the law. If things can be improved, we do not necessarily have to wait for a comprehensive evaluation. I understand that. However, if we amend a law, there must be reason to do so. Questions have been asked on this point. For example, the Council of State states that the need for the legislative proposal is not convincingly argued. The review of the law shows that existing resources can be better used. The Minister also points out that the current legal instruments offer a robust system of powers, but are not yet fully exploited. I've heard how mayors and the KNVB are pushing for the law change. We must, of course, listen to them very carefully. I'm sensitive to that, too. Indeed, they are the ones with their noses on them. However, I would like to ask the Minister how we can prevent us from extending the instruments again, when they will not be used sufficiently. It should not be symbolic legislation, because it does not help us very much. An option could be to improve the enforcement and deployment of instruments. To force someone to report at 8:00 in the morning, while the game is only played in the afternoon, doesn't make much sense. In this light, I would ask the Minister whether a stadium and area ban and reporting obligation can be enforced properly. The digital reporting process is started with a pilot. I don't think it's a waterproof system. How do we know that the person concerned is indeed reporting himself instead of someone else? A club card can be used, apart from risk competitions, to order multiple cards. How do we know that this way not even people with a stadium ban enter the stadium? We've seen footage from PowNews that someone with a stadium ban could just go into the stadium. Those weren't pretty images. The VNG therefore suggests that it should consider whether an anklet could not perform a proper function in this respect. I'd like to underline this suggestion. I ask the Minister to respond to this interesting idea. That is something that can be maintained. It is also important that people who disrupt order are tracked down. With a clever use of the police, that's possible. A large presence of the ME is far from being in place at every game. Last year I spoke about this with representatives of the Feyenoord supporters' association. I also attended a competition at the time and watched it. According to these representatives, the presence of M.E.s is not very pacific. I believe that Mr Van Nispen was also referring to this. In the vast majority of cases, they are not necessary at all. Does the Minister see opportunities to use the police smarter and shift that commitment towards a stronger detective search? That's when people get busted. They're gonna get busted. Moreover, you avoid that the large-scale presence of ME's is only polarizing. I'd like to get a response to that point. A lot of football violence is now governed by civil law. The football world seems to be taking over the role of criminal justice, while the primacy for that really lies with the government. The KNVB also points to this point and is actually very uncomfortable with that role, which is so assigned to it. The proportions seem to be a little out of control. I can imagine. Miscarriages in a full football stadium can have serious consequences for other spectators. Wouldn't it therefore be appropriate to go to criminal prosecution more often? In England and Belgium this seems to have a good deterrent effect and thus a preventive effect. Would the Minister take a good look at that? Whether someone gets an order depends on the mayor's decision. The Group of the European People's Party considers it important that this competence should be handled carefully. The Minister's reasoning that the mayor always has to make his own assessment and motivate the decision, and that there will be no automaticity, seems a bit easy. How does the Minister ensure that careful decision-making is ensured in practice? How do we prevent mayors from becoming unproclaimed security strings? I would like to hear whether the Minister is prepared to take this issue into account in the regular review of the policy, as regards those powers and their use. With the bill, the minister is mainly on the repressive tour. Hard action is sometimes needed, but for example the Association of Dutch Municipalities points out that tackling football hooligans requires more than repressive measures. Does the Minister see this? Does he want to propose a broader approach that also takes into account other factors that have an impact, such as alcohol and drug problems? I am also thinking of the importance of good contact with supporters' associations and regular consultation with them. How does the Minister ensure that this preventive approach does not lag behind the repressive approach? I have already said something about Mr Oskam's amendments in the case of interruption. We are very sympathetic to the first amendment, and the second raises some questions. The Minister will undoubtedly respond to this. I also ask him to let his light shine over that for a while. Finally, football is and remains a wonderful sport, if only because this season looks very good and I have good hope that PSV is also at the end of the season at the top.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u22	We're back on track about the soccer results. I wasn't quite there yet, so that's another advantage of this morning!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u23	Mr. Chairman. This bill is partly based on the initiative paper of members De Mos, Çörüz and Van Dekken. Firstly, I would like to congratulate them on that note. After Mr De Mos left the Chamber, I took over the defence of that note from him. Partly from that perspective, I'm looking at the bill. It is good that the current legislation to combat football vandalism and serious nuisance is strengthened, but in many respects it does not go far enough. Unfortunately, many good measures from the initiative paper of De Mos cum suis are not taken up. Compared to the English Hooligan Act, this bill is a little weak. Security is the core task of the government. My group believes that openly violence by football hooligans and other troublemakers should be punished much more severely. The public prosecutor must, through an appointment by the Minister of Security and Justice, increase the penalty requirement in cases of hooligans as far as we are concerned, by 200%, as is also advocated in the own-initiative paper. In addition, a digital public hooligan register should be created. It should be possible to put photos of convicted violent victims and offenders in stadiums on the Internet. The criminal court must be given the power to impose restrictions on freedom such as house arrest for much longer. The cabinet wants to extend its maximum duration from two to five years. Why has not been chosen for area bans of up to ten years, as previously proposed by De Mos c.s.? My group also wants Mayors to be able to deal more effectively with rioters and nuisances. This should also apply to first offenders, who are responsible for three-quarters of the offences. Why can mayors take measures such as an area ban or reporting obligation only for a maximum of one year? Of course, that period should be extended. The mayors have already asked for a raise of up to three years, so that hooligans can be kept out of the stadium much longer. My group also wants to see area bans imposed with additional fines from the third category. Why did the cabinet not accept this proposal from the own-initiative paper? Like The Mos c.s. We want stadium bans not by the KNVB, but by criminal law. These bans must be able to enter into force within one week of the competition by express law. A stadium ban would immediately lead to an area ban. Why wasn't that option chosen? Another point that we have great difficulty with is the obligation to communicate digitally. This can easily be abused. Nor should there be any provision of services to the troublemaker. Area prohibitions imposed should be maintained with a physical obligation to notify. A digital reporting obligation gives the troublemaker much more freedom of movement and that makes his sentence much more lenient. Much more needs to be done against the leaders of hooligan groups. They encourage others to riot and thus remain out of the question themselves. There must be group liability for hooligans so that whole groups can be held responsible for violence and aggression. How can more be done against the big problem of criminal motorcycle gangs infiltrating support groups? On this point, too, the legislative proposal does not provide enough opportunities. My group is in favour of the large-scale deployment of police spotters in the stadium, as in England. Known hooligans and troublemakers are being watched in the stadium. How is this currently being dealt with in the Netherlands? Mr President, I will conclude. The authority must be able to act vigorously everywhere. I have worked with the police for 30 years, including the mobile unit, the soccer unit of Rotterdam-Rhinmond and the dog brigade. At that time I had a lot to do with football vandalism and serious nuisance. I watched a very small group of hooligans ruin it for the vast majority of benevolent football supporters. That's gotta stop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u24	Thank you very much. I would then like to give the floor to Mr Dijkhoff on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u25	Mr. Chairman. This bill has a long history. The Utrecht duo Zijlstra and Spekman started in 2006. It is therefore appropriate that today's improvement comes from a cabinet of VVD and PvdA. A compliment to Mr De Mos, Mr Çörüz and Mr Van Dekken is also in order. They have provided a great deal of inspiration for this review with their memo, which has already been mentioned a few times. Formally, this is about the Act measures to combat football vandalism and serious nuisance, but we always call him the football law. That's a little ironic. As the VNG also points out, in practice, the law is used much more often in matters such as neighborhood congestion than in football. The VVD therefore looks at this law more broadly than in the context of hooligan problems alone. In our view, the law is useful against any kind of nuisance and any disruption of public order, and should therefore also be proportionate, reasonable and effective in each of these contexts. In this light, we see the proposal before us as a good remedy for the bottlenecks. It provides mayors with the necessary tools to maintain public order. The imposition of an area ban, a ban on contact or a reporting obligation may be necessary to keep us safe, whether it be hooligans, rioters or perhaps even jihadist recruiters. I can therefore imagine that a mayor who has to deal with the more recent problems of, for example, returned Syrians also looks at this law and thinks that, pending the investigation that is going on towards such a person, this law can provide points of reference to protect public order, for example, if he wants to prevent such a person from coming to certain places or having contact with certain people. When I read those articles myself, I also think it is not excluded that the law offers useful instruments in this context. Can the Minister agree to this, or are there any obstacles in this respect? I think it's a good idea to know what we can and can't do with the law. As I said, the VVD has looked at the law more broadly than just about football. Sometimes that wrings. Where, on the one hand, you want to have a lot of instruments and go a long way in tackling the hooligan problem, you must also always take into account that it must be proportionate in other circumstances. In particular, we keep an eye on the relationship between what you do with administrative and civil measures and from what gravity you really need criminal law. I have already expressed our doubts and reservations about the amendment in question by interrupting Mr Oskam of the CDA. In general terms, we believe that the legislative proposal as it stands today will pass that test. Over the full width of the application it is proportional and possible. The bottlenecks were mainly in the football applications. They are repaired but not in such a way as to lose sight of proportionality in other areas. This law has little to do with football, but the amendment of the law has everything to do with it. The rest of my input will be about that. This instrument is necessary to manage the paid football matches, and in relation to them the hundreds of thousands of supporters in the Netherlands. It's not often that you get to deal with a law that you have so much to do with yourself. Every other week you see the effects in the stadium. Over the past 18 years in a row, I have seen how it changes in a positive way, but there are also new problems. The law concerns the repression of hooligans. Therefore, in general terms, it is worth remembering that the law is necessary for only a very small proportion of football visitors. For the vast majority of the supporters, you don't need this law. They still suffer most from the rioters and the measures that unfortunately are needed in the preventive and repressive atmosphere to keep football safe. It is also good to note that the law does not need to be amended because nothing has been achieved. The policy of recent years has not been ineffective. The clubs, the KNVB, the support groups, the police, the mayors and the minister have jointly achieved results, not least because it has been decided not to point at each other anymore but to join forces. We have to keep it that way. The atmosphere in the stadiums has really improved. The number of hours the police spend in each game has fallen. It also succeeds better and better to separate the hooligan from the supporter choir. You can see that in the stadiums themselves. Shocks in the bleachers aren't much fun anymore. The relationships between the Dutch clubs and the supporters' groups are also better than ten years ago. It suddenly stands out when there is a European competition, a hooligan group comes from outside and the whole city turns upside down. That's still bad, but it used to be almost weekly, even in our own competition. So we're doing a lot better, but we're far from there. As other colleagues have said, we have now reached the stage where we can better separate the chaff from the chaff. The measures to deal with the evils are already there, soon with this law altogether. They must be used effectively, but that is only the beginning of the real work. If you have the group of hooligans better in sight, you have to go ahead with your focus. Then you just have to deal with that group, because that makes the supporters' life a lot easier. We support the extension of the law which means that for the first time people who are going to make a big mistake can be dealt with immediately. In the event of a serious disturbance, you should immediately allow for a ban on territory, a ban on groups or a reporting obligation. We are also satisfied with the operation of the measures outside the local authority. I'm talking about mayors sharing information and pointing to each other's rioters and making sure they stay home at home and out games. We are also very pleased about the potential of the more flexible reporting obligation. It is often not so important that the wheeldriver is somewhere but that he is not especially in another place. The current limited reporting obligation sometimes brings with it very strange scenes: people who have to travel very far and very long to report somewhere and agents who need to be hired to sit on a desk babysitting a hooligan who has just travelled a long way. In this context, I would like to ask the Minister what progress has been made on the development of electronic reporting obligations. Is it possible to come up with an effective and simple system without running the risk of weirdness? We have to be sure that someone doesn't come forward with a trick and makes it look like he's not in a place he's not supposed to be. In addition, the judge will soon be able to impose an area ban, a restraining order and a notification obligation for five instead of two years. We believe that this is a useful and balanced enlargement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u26	I would like to take a closer look at the administrative measures. Mr Dijkhoff has said what he thinks, but does not comment on the deadline. The Minister has proposed that the deadline for a mayor to act be set at one year. The KNVB and the mayors of municipalities where a paid football club is based say: we actually need a longer period. One year actually comes down to one season, and then the mayor runs after those nasty supporters. Our proposal is to set the period to three years. The reports also refer to a period of two years, three years or five years. It's pretty arbitrary. What is Mr Dijkhoff's position in this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u27	It's the 90-day sentence. The law is now talking about 90 consecutive days. The bill says you can also disconnect those 90 days. I think that's a good idea. Days on which there is no problem or threat of a disturbance do not have to be counted. It's about the expiration date. The law now stands for one year and Mr Oskam proposes three years. I gotta tell you, I'm having a hard time. I get the charm of you saying 90 days, 90 games? I don't make it in a year, I need three years. But the law is, of course, wider than just the application of football. If a mayor imposes the measure for other events, such as a weekly market, or for something that takes place twice a week, you can save 90 days in one or two years. Looking ahead three years and leaving things hanging over the market, I think the expiration date is long. When reading the legislative proposal, I also had an amendment in mind. That would have been two years. Mr Oskam had already tabled his amendment, so I found it faint to say: I want two years. I wonder if we can get out of there. Two years would be a good interim balance for my group. It's still arbitrary, but in three years we have the idea that you're going to stretch the deadline so far that you'd want more guarantees.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u28	Mr Dijkhoff began by saying: it is more than a football law. I call the same old and new. You can impose a reporting obligation or an area ban for old and new. Then it's good to do that for two or three years. In that respect, I think the mayors are right that it is more convenient to do it a little longer than once or one year. However, I am very pleased when Mr Dijkhoff says that two years would be a good alternative in our view.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u29	Let's cherish that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u30	I heard a comment about the reporting obligation and some doubt about possible loopholes in the law when it comes to the digital reporting obligation. I am curious to hear Mr Dijkhoff's reaction to the VNG's suggestion on the use of the anklet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u31	This could be an effect of the electronic reporting obligation. The question is of course whether you should pick it up somewhere for the weekend you need it. I also find it a little hard to let someone who should report every other week run an ankle bracelet every day of the week. That could be a variant. In the end, I think it is ideal to introduce a notification obligation which can be verified electronically, but in such a way that the government can check that it is correct. It's not a matter of: call in and send your location through your iPhone. I think that's too easy to manipulate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u32	I asked the question because we saw the footage of I think PowNews, on which you saw that duty of reporting was as leaky as a basket and people could just go into the stadium. So enforcement is failing. I assume that we share the point of departure that the 'I' really need to be put on the 'I'.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u33	I do not know whether the TV broadcast to which reference is made was also linked to a reporting obligation. At least you saw the problem there that the stadium ban was difficult to enforce. You also saw that it's difficult that not every steward of club Y knows that someone has a stadium ban at a completely different club. Of course it's also a bit of play, because why would I want to be a PSV supporter with a stadium ban to Heerenveen-Groningen? I would like to pay attention to people for whom riots go above football. I now notice that we have fans of Heerenveen or Groningen here. It's a long drive, though, from Eindhoven. In any case, I will come back to the question of how we should target the people for whom the rioting seems to be taking place over sport and the club more effectively. I now come to the enforcement of the stadium ban by clubs. You may be able to impose the ban longer, but if you don't keep it, it won't work. Enforcement is a primary responsibility for clubs and if they do not maintain it, fines are possible. That possibility has long been hanging over the market. On TV I do see people with a stadium ban walking in and going to football, but I don't see any fines from the KNVB yet. I do not want to say that for the first mistake you must immediately impose a fine, but I do not hear that possibility anywhere; in the case of financial maladministration, but not in the case of hooligan-wan management. I would also like to ask the Minister about the ambition to create as much coverage as possible with cameras in and around stadiums, also with clear images, and whether the clubs provide the images to the government. The norm must be that a misdeed in a stadium is severely punished. Then clubs and police must draw one line: no soothing words from club directors, no played indignation if something went wrong, but join hands and tackle it! We also see that drivers and trainers are threatened if the performance on the field is not to the liking of the supporters. These actions should also lead to prosecution and stadium bans, even if they occur at the training complex or at offices and on days other than competition days. Is it also possible to target hooligans in a targeted way by looking at what they are doing outside the competitions? The hard core of malicious people is also seen riots in other places and at other events. You see them act together in committing a crime. The group is defined by hooliganism and is associated with certain clubs. How do we ensure an integrated approach for these people with all the evil activities they develop? It should be directed more and more at individuals and not just at individual incidents. The Minister has always been a fan of the "top so much" approach we use with juvenile criminals and other criminals. Is there also the prospect of doing that with hooligans and is there capacity for that? The next question is: how do we tackle cross-border hooliganism? In Germany and Belgium you often see Dutch hooligans with a Dutch stadium ban because their rebels are bouncing. The other way around, they're coming here. Will it be easier for the Dutch mayor to impose an area ban, even to a supporter from Belgium who regularly comes to riot in a Dutch stadium? How do we make a better system for European competitions where we are dealing with countries that are further away from home? A British, Polish or Italian fan does not come on the floor every week, so it seems difficult for me to come up with a dossier. That fan will probably be known to his own authorities. Is it possible, by sharing information on the basis of the information provided by the mayor of another city in Europe, to establish that this person may cause a problem and therefore not be allowed to join the stadium? All these measures are necessary and in the interest of the willing supporter. The goal must be to make their life of support easier. The question now arises when good and normal fans notice something about it. Of course you can see that it is now more pleasant in the stadium; the ever so common riots and mats are not so common anymore. Eventually, you want normal supporters to suffer less from the preventive measures. Part of the current success is because we subject all supporters to preventive measures. Unfortunately, it's not like you can just grab your car and drive to an away game and then walk into a stadium there. No, first you're stuck in a tunnel tube for an hour, and then you're stuck in a ripped-off train set, and then you're pushed out on a platform an hour later. You will also be treated to a foam-basined supporter group that is stopped by a peloton of ME'ers, barking dogs and kicking horses. I can say from my own experience that it doesn't really calm you down. Now you can see a drop in the number of problems. You see a drop in police deployment per game, but you also see an increase in the number of combi's. Isn't that seen by mayors as standard security? The disadvantage of imposing such measures is quite small for a mayor. The people who suffer from it live in another city and are from another club. It keeps things neatly organized, so why wouldn't you? The question is to what extent this offers real certainty. In games where it goes wrong, the combi scheme has been applicable. Apparently, the real wheeldrivers know how to get around this after all. Are we critical enough of the choices we make? We should not impose on all good citizens a lot of hassle with a mandatory combi, while the scum still goes through shortcuts. Is there also sufficient attention to the risk that combi's are counterproductive? If I'm going to Ajax or Feyenoord as a PSV supporter, I can understand why that's necessary. In competitions where it's less thick on top of it, you encourage the search for a detour, especially when people live more near the receiving club than from their own club. Last week at Vitesse-PSV, everyone was obliged to go through the combination. Still, there was a fight. Season card holders of Vitesse sold cards to PSV fans and thus bypassed combi obligations. And then it went wrong. Such a duty can also facilitate the search for a detour, if there is too much hassle and you don't really understand why it is so necessary. In that case only the wrong supporters are still among the home audience. Then you might want to decide that you don't want them on the bus but you want them in the outbox instead of not in the bus or in the outbox. Of course, that's the ideal endgame we're working towards, that a willing supporter can just go to a club, whether it plays at home or out. Unfortunately, we still have some work to do before we get there. It is also important to know what the norm is for every club. It's got to be that wheeldrivers don't make the call. They harm their own club and their fellow supporters with their behavior, and that must not be tolerated. This is particularly important because in the stadium there are always a small group of assholes, a large group of decent supporters and a very large group of ordinary people, who can be influenced by what is the norm in the stands. I think it's a little too easy to say there's only good people and nothing but rioters. When you're in one of those stadiums, you're part of a crowd. Things are happening around you and you can be dragged by your emotions. That at the same time makes it so nice to be a supporter; it is not a cinema where you come to see nice places. It's a fight, a competition, and it's just so beautiful because it's so emotional. If your club wins, you win and you're happy. If you lose your club, you lose your own and you really feel that way. Woe to him who says, "It's just a game." You're gonna have to learn to stand up to your loss. How you handle it, you learn how to play at the stadium. How other supporters and your club deal with it and what the norm is is very important. You need to be able to handle that quietly and in a controlled manner, even if it was all up to the referee in your eyes. Then you're angry; that feels like injustice. Then you might want to have a tendency to kick at something to express your frustration. I do not speak from my own experience, of course. If a winning supporter of the other side also comes along and it rubs in like a torment with a creatively crafted mocking song, then you get really angry; not practice angry, not played angry, but really angry. If it's really frustrating, it'll stick for years. Can I tell you that 21 March 2002.................................................................................................................................................................................................... The minister may have experienced differently that day, but to me it was a bitter pill. On that day the return of the fourth final of the UEFA cup took place. My club, PSV, played Feyenoord. The home game ended after a mistake by Hofland and a goal by Kezman in 1-1. Those goals both fell on my side of the field, right in front of me. In De Kuip it also stayed the same for a long time, until 15 minutes before time Mark van Bommel scored and we thought we were in the semi-finals. In the last minute, however, Jan Heintze forgot to play a solid player to roast a ball in the stands because he thought he had to solve it footballing. Losing ball, moving ball, and Van Hooijdonk gets him into it. Then a couple more penalty's and we were out. I believe that Feyenoord came a little further, won something of a cup. That night, no PSV fan was happy. The tension, the disappointment and the frustration are great. Most people process that within the limits of the law. Some of them, however, do not succeed. A large group, especially young people, must learn how to deal with it. Then it is all the more important that they see the good example around them and that the bad examples are dealt with hard. I am not talking about swear words after such defeat, because we are human beings, but about hooligans who fight with others or cause destruction. Precisely because football evokes so many real emotions, it is important that we guard the order and that young supporters learn that you do not get a rematch by hurting the supporters of the winning opponents. The most beautiful revanche is on the field. To go back to that frustrating anecdote of just now: the misery of March 2002 has been gnawing for a long time and that nasty taste was actually washed away on October 24, 2010. I don't know if the minister has that in mind right away. The only downside was that the goal points on the other side of the field, where I wasn't sitting, fell behind the other goal, but that's all there is to it. In the tenth month of 2010, my PSV from Feyenoord won 10-0. Those are wonderful moments. Yesterday, as a couple of amateurs, they were very embarrassed by Roda from the cup. But that is what makes it so beautiful to be a football fan: it never works out as you expect. Every season is exciting again and every season has memorable moments. Those moments are shared in the stands with your father, your brother and the people who have been loyal to you for years, beside you and behind you. That tension and passion, it's part of the job. Reel kicks and others to life are not part of that, even if things are against it. As the club song of my club says: and there come times of great setback, then we will show what friendship can be. Football and friendship are supposed to go together.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u34	Mr. Chairman. Although I also have a preferred football club, I will refrain from commenting on football, because I am absolutely not good at that. But it will be clear that that is Heerenveen. The Council of State criticises this bill. The College of Attorneys General warns, among other things, that sanctions imposed may not last in court. Colleagues Van Nispen and Segers have asked questions about this which I would like to endorse. I am therefore waiting with interest for the Minister's reply. In 2010, D66 was not in favour of this law. We were not convinced of the effectiveness of the measures. Besides, it's not just about football vandalism, it's about hooligans. It's a lot more than that. It gives the mayor many powers. Nevertheless, everyone underlines the ultimate aim of this bill, namely to prevent football vandalism and serious nuisance. The cabinet very much likes to talk about ex post repression measures. Vandalism and serious nuisance must be punished, but we would also like the cabinet to do more to prevent this. The UNG in particular therefore calls for more attention to be paid to prevention. The question is whether a law solves the problem. You can't just regulate security through new laws. Sometimes it's about application, sometimes it's about a better chance of getting it, about enforcement and tracking. We know from the early evaluation, two years after the introduction of the law, that there are bottlenecks, mainly in the approach to football vandalism. We share the desire of the sector to resolve these bottlenecks. However, it is still not known whether or not the football law has contributed to preventing football vandalism and serious nuisance or to a structural reduction in the number of incidents. The official evaluation must therefore await the Chamber. I therefore ask the Minister when we can expect this evaluation. My party is surprised at the trend in recent years. Mayors are given more and more powers: preventive search, administrative detention, power of compulsion, emergency order, administrative penalty nuisance public space and I could go on for a while. There are many tools to combat nuisance. But the added value has not always been demonstrated, nor is it clear whether the mayors are using their powers. The Safety and Justice Inspectorate warns against overlap and lack of understanding of the coherence. Mayors don't see the forest anymore because of the trees. The Council of State also stresses the need for a comprehensive review of all public policy powers. The latest investigation report dates back to my knowledge in 2007, at that time thanks to the Ministry of the Interior. In the meantime, many powers have been added. That is why I ask the Minister whether he is prepared to identify the various powers and instruments in the field of public policy and security. As I said, the mayor's duties have been greatly extended. However, we are concerned about the expanding package of sanctions. Mayors should be careful not to be sucked into criminal law. The minister almost turned them into local sheriffs. Sometimes it seems like he's okay with mayors sitting on the judge's seat. But, as I say to the Minister, it's got to do with our constitutional rights. As far as D66 is concerned, the mayor is a director and not a judge. Serious nuisance is in many cases just criminal behavior. A judge and not a mayor must judge and punish. How does the Minister ensure the relationship between administrative law and criminal law? How does he justify the imposition of severe measures by a mayor without the intervention of a judge? How can people defend themselves against any unjustified sanctions? D66 is in favour of an effective approach to football violence. The effect of a civil sanction is not comparable to that of a criminal sanction. According to figures from the KNVB, 662 stadium bans were imposed in the 2013-2014 season and only 18 were imposed through criminal law. There seems to be still work for the cabinet. Is the Minister prepared to take over the KNVB's recommendations by examining, firstly, the possibilities of treating a larger proportion of football-related violence through criminal law, and, secondly, the criminal law of criminal law which is prohibited by the KNVB's civil law for more than 18 months? Following these initial comments, I would like to focus on the proposed changes. As I said earlier, I understand the desire to solve certain bottlenecks. There are necessary and effective adaptations to the bill, such as extending the maximum duration of a ban and extending it to municipalities in competitions. I do have a number of questions about certain measures. First of all, I would like to comment on the first offenders. We understand that an important bottleneck lies with the first offenders. This proposal removes the demand for repetition. Thus, if someone has been involved in disorder only once, the person may be subject to an area ban, a group ban or a notification obligation from the mayor. This may seem drastic, but we understand from the government's explanatory statement that this will not happen in the event of minor disturbances. However, I think it is important to have the Minister's confirmation here once again that it should only apply in the event of serious disturbances combined with a risk of repetition. If this reduces the risk of recidivism, we can understand. However, we ask the Minister to include the results in the evaluation. After all, we do not want young people to lose their future because of this. Can the Minister explain how the mayor will assess the likelihood of repetition? Are criteria given so that people are treated and punished in a similar way, and what are these criteria? What are we supposed to mean by serious disorder? Aren't these often criminal offences that the judge and not the mayor are dealing with? How is attention paid to environmental factors such as education, employment, alcohol and drugs? I'm gonna come up with an increase in the penalty rate. With this amendment, the Minister wants to increase the maximum duration of the restrictions on freedom imposed by the criminal court from two to five years. Why is this increase necessary? How often is the current maximum sentence of two years imposed? How many times has it been reported that a higher sentence was wanted? How effective is this measure? Is soccer violence with such an increase actually prevented? Or is it the symbol? Finally. We have heard from the KNVB that the results of the pilot with a digital reporting obligation have already been transferred to the Ministry of Security and Justice. Looks like this pilot went well. Less police deployment would be needed to take on and check the reports. This would therefore make this measure more effective. How does the Minister judge the pilot? If this digital instrument is also waterproof, is it prepared to use it as soon as possible? A number of colleagues have mentioned the ME's commitment. I know from my own experience that sometimes it is necessary to use the ME, sometimes close, sometimes a little further away, but at your fingertips. However, I would argue that we should not concern ourselves here with the question of whether or not it is necessary to use the ME. Let's leave that to the professionals. So we still have a lot of questions. I await with interest the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u35	Mr. Chairman. Soccer belongs to the people and it must not be taken away from the people. This is a beautiful quote by Rivelino, once star player of the Brazilian team that became world champion in 1980. Soccer belongs to the people and so it is. That is not only Rivelino's view, that is also the view of the Labour Party and, indeed, that of myself. I will reveal: here is a fanatic supporter of the Pride of the North, housed in the Green Cathedral, among the fanatical supporters also called "The Hell of the North," my own Groningen FC. This is someone with club love and a football heart. Not for nothing I have a lot of sympathy for movements like In de Hekken, a collection of fanatical supporters clubs. For a reason, I was co-initiator already a few years ago of the Supportersplatform Paid Football, which represents as much as 70% of the official supporters associations within that same paid football. I follow with interest actions and plans to bring football back to its core, namely a true folk festival for young and old. That was what the Labour Party intended on May 31, 2012 with the initiative note "Football again a party for everyone!'. I drew up this note together with former colleagues De Mos and Çörüz, in which we put forward proposals to make football attractive again and at the same time fight football vandalism. That is precisely why the Labour Party wants to separate the chaff from the chaff. We stand up for the benevolent and also the fanatical supporters and want a tough approach for the small group of troublemakers who try to disrupt football in society. We therefore welcome the fact that this minister, or rather the cabinet, supports important proposals from our own initiative paper and has thus laid the foundations for the 'new football law'. For let me be clear, good supporters should not suffer from the behaviour of the hooligans who know football as well as the Labour Party. This last group needs to be tackled hard. First of all by the supporters' associations themselves and the clubs, but also, unfortunately, legal measures are also needed. With this new football law, we want to make it clear that we stand for the willing supporter and fight the troublemakers who force people to chase down the stadium, the pub, the beach or even the fairground. We are therefore broadly in agreement with the legislative proposal. Since the questions we had were answered well in the written round of questions, there is little to note about the legislative proposal itself. I will therefore raise some other issues, which will need to be given more attention in the future. Especially when this strengthened football law is about to pay off and the problem of malicious supporters has been overcome, it is time to pay more attention to the rules, which now also hinder the well-meaning supporters. The latter must, of course, be done as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u36	As far as I am concerned, these are fine words from Mr Van Dekken. He says the guys who disturb the place need to be dealt with. He said this a few years ago. I was given the impression in our interrupting debate that he believes that my amendment, which aims to give the criminal court the opportunity to ban supporters from the stadium for ten years, is a step too far. Is my impression correct?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u37	If Mr Oskam is looking for that confirmation, my answer is that this is true. We think it is important that we first look at what this new law is doing in practice. Perhaps in a few years' time, if it doesn't work, we can also talk to Mr Oskam about a different interpretation of the law. I asked for his opinion in my interruption on the hooligan legislation in England which has far-reaching penalties. That model seems to be working well. I am not saying that we should introduce it here in the Netherlands. On the contrary, I hope that this new legislation will be sufficient. We're talking about tightening up.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u38	I would like to hear something about Mr Van Dekken's thinking. Not so long ago he wrote with former colleague Çörüz of the CDA and Mr De Mos of the PVV: "If a territorial ban is pronounced against a rioter for the second time, it should be possible for a judge to impose a territorial ban of up to ten years on the basis of the seriousness of the offence." That is exactly my amendment. Mr Van Dekken explained: 'The worst wheeldrivers no longer have mercy'. Now I'd like to hear where this switch came from.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u39	This is a justified point by Mr Oskam. Moreover, this initiative paper was prepared by the CDA, the PVV and the Labour Party. However, there is also such a thing as moving insight. We have been thinking about how football violence and football-related violence are going. It is also important that there have been a number of discussions, including with the Minister for Security and Justice, following the presentation of the own-initiative paper on how to implement the new football law carefully, properly and broadly. We said at the time that the proposal at that time did not apply in the present and present. That is why we will not support Mr Oskam's amendment. I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u40	In fact, I have the same question: why that turn? Mr Van Dekken wrote this down himself, and now he is completely destroying it. I do not understand his remark about moving insight. If we can believe the latest figures, then football vandalism is growing again. Surely there is every reason to go along with this amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u41	That is perhaps a justified point, but I would point out that in the football world, the KNVB, the supporters' associations and everything and everyone is working hard on standardisation. I want to give this standardization a great opportunity. In my opinion, the penalty level in this new law is strong enough. In addition, there is a process of people, supporters' movements, the KNVB and other unions, and the organizations involved to normalize football. I'd like to go that way. That harsh penalty measure of 2012 does not go in for the Labour Party in the here and now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u42	Once again, I pay tribute to the initiative paper at the time and to Mr Van Dekken's role in it, but this twist really cannot be explained. At least I don't understand him.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u43	Mr Bontes may think so, but we welcome the football law as it stands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u44	I also have a question on this on behalf of my former colleague De Mos and the PVV group. I have heard many words from Mr Van Dekken, but not yet a start of an answer. He speaks of the measure of punishment, but it is not a punishment: it is a measure. So you don't even have to look at proportionality. If you write in an own-initiative paper that there is no mercy for the worst nuisances, I cannot imagine that, based on conversations with supporters' associations and the like, you can say that it is no longer necessary. Mr Van Dekken has certainly not convinced my group of the reason why he now suddenly believes that there is apparently mercy for the most serious offenders, because that is the bottom line.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u45	Mrs. Helder is talking about the supporters' associations. I was just talking about the Supporter's Platform Paid Football. There's 70% of the supporters' associations in there. They all support this football law and the KNVB supports it for a large part. Socially, the new football law is also widely worn. I do not think it is appropriate at the moment to be stricter and tougher than the content of the law now reflects.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u46	Then I would advise Mr Van Dekken to listen to the police and the KNVB. The KNVB has said that much more should be done through criminal law. Did Mr Van Dekken not look at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u47	I've certainly looked at that, but I've made a different assessment. I do that on the basis of the information from the conversations I've had. Of course, in preparation for this new law, I also spoke with the Minister of Security and Justice. The initiative paper forms part of the basis for the law. Here and there we leave a feather, but that doesn't mean we don't just talk if it turns out that this law doesn't work in the future. I didn't refer to the Hooligan Act in England for nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u48	I do not have a question about the amendment, but I would like to take up Mrs Helder's last question. She asked how Mr Van Dekken was looking at the call for more criminal law to be dealt with in general, not with regard to the amendment referring to the ten-year period. Mr Van Dekken knows that there is a great deal going on at the KNVB and at the clubs, but that criminal law for serious offences and serious crimes is too limited. At least that is how I see it and I want to know how Mr Van Dekken sees it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u49	My group believes that we should be careful about this. Mr Van Nispen will hear that later in my speech. Of course, you have to punish when you need to, and you have to punish hard when you need to. That is what the new football law provides for. Let that be the measure and the base.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u50	I agree. I am not in favour of further tightening up the measures. I am concerned about how we are going to use the law in practice. How are we going to use the tightening? The balance is a bit lost, is my thesis. We're dealing with capacity issues with the police and the D.A.'s office. Does Mr Van Dekken not see, like me and the many others who have said something about this, that we need to ensure that criminal law is used more often in the future for serious criminal offences, for which only a civil stadium ban can now be imposed?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u51	That is indeed the balance to be struck. However, it has to be within the existing capacity. I cannot, of course, say how we are going to do this in practice and how much money and manpower that is going to cost. First of all, I want to see how this law is implemented in practice with the current capacity and within the existing frameworks.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u52	I'm gonna go through with this, too. The KNVB has indicated that all those stadium bans, which are imposed under civil law, are less effective than criminal sanctions. How does Mr Van Dekken view that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u53	I understand the view of the KNVB. I might even be able to share this view, but we are dealing with the new football law which we hope to adopt later and which should then be put into practice. First, I want to see how the law will be implemented in practice. The best thing would be if we had to use the law as little as possible. That is what I meant in the first part of my speech: on the road to standardisation, with fewer police deployments where this is possible, less use of criminal law and so on. That must be the aim of all of us. That is also the aim of the KNVB and the supporters' associations and it is certainly the aim of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u54	The Labour Party will also be in favour of the sanctions being imposed being as effective as possible. Suppose there are significant incidents that would result in stadium bans being imposed for a longer period of time, for example for more than 18 months. Does Mr Van Dekken agree with D66 that after 18 months you should simply apply criminal law?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u55	I doubt that a little bit. I understand what you're saying. There has to be that possibility of criminal law. We want to fight footfall vandalism and other nuisances in everything. However, I would like to use this football law as a basis. I do not always want to anticipate the question of what might happen. It concerns the limitation of nuisance, both inside and outside the football stadium and elsewhere. There are good measures in the football law and I would like to use them as a starting point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u56	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u57	I was talking about the benevolent supporters. Our starting point is to keep the road to standardisation open. We want to hold on to that as much as we can. I would also like to make a few comments on the legislative proposal itself. We are concerned that a mayor can immediately, without sufficient reason, impose an area ban, a group ban or a reporting obligation on first offenders. I don't want a mayor imposing such a measure of restraint too lightly. I am largely reassured by the Minister's answers in the written round. Not every faulty behavior immediately leads to an area ban. Not every stadium ban should immediately bring with it a notification obligation. After a serious offense, even if it's the first time, a mayor should be able to intervene. I understand that it is up to the mayor to decide whether or not he is imposing a measure. Although I am reassured by the Minister's answers, I do have one concern. It seems undesirable to me that a mayor in one municipality with a bvo (paying football organisation) should impose a measure much easier than a mayor in another municipality. How can the Minister ensure that more measurements are not carried out in different municipalities? After all, the legislative proposal also provides for the possibility of private law measures. For example, a club can itself impose a stadium ban on a supporter. That could be a basis for a mayor to impose a measure. I agree with that in itself, but not every measure imposed by a club or other organisation should be able to provide a basis for a mayor to impose a land ban or something like that. The fear was removed from me by the announcement of a General Measure of Governance in the bill. It would specify the sanctions that can be imposed by which private organisations and which abuses may be used as the basis for an administrative measure. In the explanatory memorandum, the reason for the AMvB is to avoid the possibility of imposing administrative measures on all kinds of sanctions imposed by private organisations. That is what I thought and still think is a good solution. I am surprised, however, that the Minister deleted the possibility of an AMvB by letter of amendment. I have tabled an amendment to reduce the possibility, so that a mayor does not have to impose a measure too lightly. After all, a measure often results in a certain degree of restriction of freedom. In my party's view, you have to deal with this very carefully, also because it is not just about football nuisance. If a pub boss kicks out a tough customer, that, especially if that's the first time, should not lead me to a restraining order imposed by the mayor.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u58	In my view, Mr Van Dekken just said that this law should be put into effect first and that no other measures should be proposed. Now he himself comes forward with an amendment. I am very much experiencing that mayor is apparently not sufficiently capable of making their own considerations. Does Mr Van Dekken agree with D66 that it is precisely the characteristic of administrative measures that mayors should be able to make those assessments?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u59	Normally, that should be the case. Mayors could also make that assessment. However, I was surprised at the deletion of the text in the letter of amendment on the possibility of an AMvB. That is why I have tabled this amendment. I thought that was crazy. I want to know why that is. Of course, I ask the Minister to do the same. We think it is important that there should be no arbitrariness. That is why we have tabled this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u60	The possibility of imposing administrative measures by mayors implies that mayors can make their own considerations, of course within the framework of the law granting access to those measures. Then what does this add?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u61	There could be a form of arbitrariness. One mayor can make a different assessment than the other. I would prefer this to be dealt with in a uniform manner. That is why I have tabled this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u62	I always appreciate it when the PvdA is a bit off and goes against the Minister, but I do not understand that very well on this point. I find the arguments put forward by the Minister to be quite convincing. He said that it was not the civil sanction of the civil organisation, the stadium ban, that it was the behavior. This is in itself sufficient ground for an administrative measure according to the administrative authority. What added value does it have to include in a General Measure of Management a list stating that it does apply to the bars on the corner and for the fairground, but not to the other pub and not even if something happens on the beach? It is arbitrariness to include such a list in a General Measure of Management. Can Mr Van Dekken respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u63	Yes, I have just said that I am concerned about the degree of restriction of freedom. You have to deal with that very carefully. That is why we have tabled this amendment. In this sense, we do not want any arbitrary action to be taken. Of course, I have read and listened carefully to the arguments put forward by the members of the Chamber and the Minister, but the issue of arbitrary restrictions on freedom is simply important to us. However, in the second term, we will listen carefully to the Chamber and the Minister and then make our ultimate decision on this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u64	The municipality may make use of the information provided by such a club or the pub boss, but it must nevertheless independently justify why a particular measure is proportionate in a particular case. That's the point. It is therefore up to the administrative authority to make that assessment. The civil measure can only play a role in supporting it. However, it cannot in itself lead to the one-to-one adoption or strengthening of the civil measure with an administrative measure. It is precisely from that perspective that I believe that a General Measure of Governance will have very little added value. Anyway, I also share Mr Van Dekken's concern. It should not be too easy to strengthen a civil measure with an administrative one. However, I doubt very much whether the amendment makes any sense. I do not think that Mr Van Dekking's argument that this has added value and will lead to less arbitrariness is convincing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u65	Of course, my colleague can say that, but, once again, we really are dealing with the arbitrariness and the risks of the restriction of freedom. I think we should wait and see what the Minister says about the amendment in the second term. I shall come back to that, of course. The next point is the digital reporting obligation. If all technical requirements can be met and if it is possible to prevent football supporters from circumventing the system, then I am strongly in favour of this reporting obligation. This way you can keep hooligans away from the competitions, without having to be very far-reaching for the hooligan in question and without leading to a lot of control effort immediately. The latter is not insignificant either. The Minister refers to a pilot of the KNVB whose results he has to wait for. To be honest, I don't think that's very proactive. What can the Minister do to get the possibility of a digital reporting obligation off the ground? At the moment the nuisance is reduced, there is more room to remove the obstacles to the well-intentioned supporters who are now going to football for fun. Supporters' associations already play an important role in this. They have to keep doing that. They can also ensure that the good supporters, who are also fanatic, are addressed on their responsibility. If that succeeds and the hooligans are reduced, it is again possible to go to a game without a club card or combination arrangement. Then it is also possible for someone to buy a ticket spontaneously on the day to go to a game. I would like to table a motion on this standardization in the second term. As I said, in 2012 I proposed the initiative paper "The menu for the supporter" with former colleagues De Mos and Çörüz. I would like to draw your attention to this once again. One of the proposals was that pay-per-view football organisations should develop an action plan every two years setting out measures to improve hospitality for supporters. My group believes that this is very important. I would therefore very much like to hear a response from the Minister to this question. I think it is important, under the rule that the good should not suffer the bad guys, that supporters who turn out to be innocent should immediately be removed from the football tracking system. After all, very often it turns out that people had nothing to do with it. I have often heard that people remain in that system for a long time, with all the social consequences. This will be more important if this law is adopted and the mayors can take measures more easily. I would appreciate it if the Minister would take that up. Finally. Soccer is love, soccer is passion. Let us reduce football to what it is essentially: a wonderful game with a ball. Or, as sports journalist Willem Vissers once wrote, the world is a ball. The PvdA likes to launch that ball with that same power and passion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u66	We have come to the end of the first term of office. We have been able to identify different club colors; that is always nice. The Minister has indicated that he needs about 15 minutes to prepare his response. I shall therefore suspend the sitting for 15 minutes. Today we will probably not be able to complete the whole response in the first period. That is why I propose to the Minister that the amendments be examined, so that Members have the Minister's opinion on the amendments. The rest of the Minister's reply and the second deadline will then be scheduled for next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u67	The Minister will comment on the amendments. Four amendments have been tabled, namely the amendments to the documents. 8, 11, 14 and 15. The other amendments have lapsed because they have been replaced by other amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u68	Mr. Chairman. Given the time I won't have a long introduction or talk about my favorite club either. That's common knowledge, so I don't have to do that. However, I would like to say two more things. In 2010, the Act came into force measures to combat football vandalism and serious nuisance. In 2011, there were serious riots around football matches, which led to an early review of the law. In spring 2012, Mr De Mos, Mr Van Dekken and Mr Çörüz' own-initiative paper on measures to combat football vandalism and serious nuisance appeared. In the autumn of 2012, there was the announcement of the tightening up of the law and the bill we are discussing. That is an important moment, so I would like to thank everyone who has played a part in it. We have now reached a momentum where the KNVB, all the HQ mayors, the police, the Public Prosecutor's Office and myself, so all the parties involved in the fight against football vandalism, both preventive and repressive, can agree. Football's a party. That's where you're supposed to go. We are striving for standardisation in order to achieve this. It is important to do so along the lines we have now agreed on. That is also my commitment to this debate. I would like to leave it with this general introduction. Four amendments have been tabled. Usually you come to an opinion on amendments in a very natural way. In this case, my introductory text was the natural way, not surprisingly, of arriving at the opinion on the amendments. I shall begin with the amendment to item No. 8, tabled by Mr Oskam, proposing to extend the period for which a measure can be spread from one year to three years. The distribution as such makes the measure more effective; I do not need to explain that further. The amendment refers to the possibility of an extension of three times three months. I consider the proposed 12-month period to be sufficient. Mayors have also said that they consider this to be a good and clear improvement. That is why I did not want to extend the deadline. A significant extension could have an excessive effect on this preventive measure. I think that's undesirable. I am also, of course, listening to interruptions in this debate. I will wait and see what further the Chamber could do, so that I can give a final verdict in the second term. So if it comes to a slightly further enlargement, perhaps I can take note of it with interest and perhaps even react positively to it later, but for my final assessment I would first like to see whether this is happening and on what grounds.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u69	Mr Oskam may have been able to shed some light on this in the brief suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u70	Exactly. I would like to be right about that, because I also notice in the Chamber that there is sympathy for the idea, now that the mayors and the KNVB have said that the deadline should actually be longer than one season, which also applies to other measures, such as old and new. So you can say that you can spread this, but it's still a one-year period, left-hand or right-hand period. I am inclined to amend my amendment from three to two years. Then I'd like to hear from the Minister that he's putting butter on the fish.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u71	At that point, I would leave the judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u72	Mr Oskam is therefore going to table an amended amendment changing the deadline from three to two years. That would allow colleagues to take that into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u73	I will.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u74	Excellent. Then the amendment to item No. 1 will be put to the vote at the next voting time. 8 has therefore been amended.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u75	Then I come to the Oskam/Helder amendment to item No. 15. The purpose of this amendment is to extend the period of the freedom-limiting measure to 10 years in the event of a recurrence. This ten-year period is subject to objections. The aim of the measure is to protect society and prevent criminal offences. The measure also affects the fundamental rights of the person concerned, which is restricted in his freedom. You have to approach that way, too. The objective of the measure is heavy, but the measure must also be necessary and proportionate in the individual case on the basis of the ECHR. I am absolutely in favour of a tight, rigorous measure that is proportionate and effective. It is therefore important that it is always possible to determine whether the risk or the risk of recurrence posed by the person concerned still exists. For other measures that pursue these objectives, and therefore we have to look at the rest of the criminal law, a review period is always in place after a maximum of five years. That is why I do not recommend this amendment. I come now to Mrs Helder's amendment, which has now been tabled in respect of item No. 14 on the introduction of group criminal liability. That is a point in which we meet regularly and touch each other but have not made any progress. First of all, criminal law is based on individual liability. In order to punish violence committed in a group, the burden of proof for public violence is already low, under Article 141 of the Code of Criminal Law. Mrs Helder wants to further reduce the burden of proof in the sense that a whole group can be held liable for the criminal consequences of public violence. Such a far-reaching extension of the criminal liability that tends to be a risk liability goes beyond the scope of this bill. It is not for nothing that Mrs Helder wants to deal with this issue by means of a separate legislative initiative. Of course, I'll wait and see. I therefore reject this amendment. Finally, I come to Mr Van Dekken's amendment. I was a little surprised and surprised about that, too. I have great confidence in the actions of the Dutch mayors in this regard. We have chosen a system of civil law, administrative law and criminal law in which the mayor plays an important role. Of course, it is always the judge who tests it. The AMvB has therefore been removed from the letter of amendment: it has no added value and reduces flexibility. That's the core of the story. There is no reason to believe that mayors would not use their powers carefully. Nor does the AMvB offer the guarantee that Mr Van Dekken apparently expects of it. So it is my preference that the AMvB does not return to the bill. However, before I give my opinion, it might be better for Mr Van Dekken to interrupt me, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u76	I think I know the Minister's judgment. The minister says he was surprised and surprised by the PvdA's amendment. In my speech, I expressed my surprise and surprise at the change made by the Minister himself in the letter of amendment. What is the reason for that? That is why I can give it a very serious thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u77	The core is that it has no added value at all. You just have to give the mayor here the room for manoeuvre he or she considers necessary. I think Mrs Berndsen said that very well. That's what's being tested here. In the implementation of this and the previous law you can indeed say that it can be a bit firmer here and there. Many have spoken of this. You have to leave room for the governing body that deals with this. That organ doesn't do it on its own, but in the triangle or otherwise. Quadrangle. If this is well organized, then the VO will shift in this respect and take joint positions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u78	I have listened carefully to the Minister and understand the argument. I was concerned that the Minister deleted the possibility of an AMvB in the letter of amendment. He is now giving his arguments, but before that he did so in a different way. That's why I'm surprised. I hope the Minister understands that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u79	Yeah, I get that. My surprise is not a negative qualification of what Mr Van Dekken has said. I was actually surprised by the arguments. The point is that I am responsible for the system and for the implementation of the law, but only within the powers I have. However, the mayor, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the police and the municipalities carry out the story and they achieve the results. That's why I want to give the mayor the space he or she needs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u80	As an exception, I would like to give Mr Van Dekken a short, third opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u81	Then the minister and I will be out. Plenty of thoughts and arguments have been exchanged. On this point, I withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u82	The Van Dekken amendment (Doc. 11) has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u83	I am through with the amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u84	That's right. I had agreed with the spokesmen that after the amendments we would stop responding to the Minister, so that we could at least have enough time to discuss the amendments. We could go on for another 45 minutes. I would like to hear from the Minister whether he thinks he can complete the first-term response in 45 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u85	A lot of questions have been asked. This is mainly due to the flexibility of the Members of Parliament. I'd like to go through it, but let the Chamber say what it prefers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u86	I'm gonna ask the spokesmen to get close to me. So we can talk for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u87	We prefer to do the total answer to the outstanding questions at once next week and then continue with the second period as a whole. We'll continue the work schedule at 2:00 p.m. Then there were votes on motions, tabled to the VAO Ecofin Council and the VAO Culture in the picture and BIS. After that, the Chamber continues the debate on privacy in education.
