ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-tweedekamer-2.u1	Mr. Chairman. The good news is that crime in our Dutch society is falling. Youth crime is also falling. The bad news is that the threat of terror, liquidations and robberies is increasing. These are very violent robberies, sometimes shooting at the police. Very often large groups of weapons are found by chance by the police, and these are not the least weapons. They are often kalashnikovs, used by terrorists, but also recently in the case of liquidations in Amsterdam. Previously, the mayor and the chief of police of Amsterdam have called to say that there is not enough priority to tackle arms possession and arms trafficking. If we want to stop criminals of this kind, it is important that we not only pay attention to the crimes themselves, but also to the material used to commit these crimes. We need to give that top priority. Last weekend, the reporter programme came up with a study that shows that the platform that is needed for services to work together and have a good information position has been closed, allowing you to act effectively. The reaction of the police was: it's a bit done now. I thought that was a really crazy position. I have asked questions about this before to the Minister for Security and Justice. At that time, I was assured that it was a priority. I'd like to know what's going on. Is it or is it not a priority? What does that mean for operational cooperation between all these services?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-tweedekamer-2.u2	Mr. Chairman. Mr Marcouch rightly started with two observations. First of all, the fact that crime, fortunately, has fallen figures and, in addition, that we are too often witnessing the use of heavy weapons. Mr Marcouch then referred to the reporter's report that the platform's approach to arms had been lifted. He asks whether the fight against weapons is still a priority in the cabinet. The answer to that is yes. The lifting of the old platform is therefore certainly not the end of the story. That platform dates back to the time that the Netherlands worked with 26 regional corps, i.e. for the National Police. So it didn't fit the current structure anymore. The corps leadership has commissioned the creation of a new platform that fits the current structure. This differs from the old structure in two respects. First of all, a much more explicit international embedding, because arms trade is often international, so that the mess also ends up in the Netherlands and unfortunately is also used. Secondly, this is a platform that is clearly also operational. The last one was more coordinating. It is really a question of sharing information at a concrete level, so that the problems can be addressed. It is therefore an improvement on the old structure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-tweedekamer-2.u3	I understand the Minister says it has our attention. What I don't understand is that last weekend's communication was so messy. Apparently the police organization does not know very well what is or is not going on. Can the Minister explain this? I've always learned that you don't throw away your old shoes until you get new ones. It is a platform in the context of threats, liquidations and the full presence of weapons in our society. How can you lift that platform and then think about setting up a better platform? What's going on right now? Is it currently operationally a priority? Are the detectives making work of tracking down these kinds of weapons to stop these crimes or not? Indeed, I heard the Minister talk about tackling this type of crime internationally. What is the government doing, now that we have open borders, to keep the countries of Europe that are not so strict in detecting this type of weapons crime and enforcing the law in this regard? How does it ensure that the same rigour is applied there and that it is given priority there? I ask the Minister whether he is prepared to keep us informed in the progress reports on the formation of the National Police about how the prioritisation of the arms approach takes shape within the new police organisation, international cooperation and, indeed, cooperation between the services in our country.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-tweedekamer-2.u4	Mr Marcouch asked how the government's priority was to deal with firearms. It is precisely the creation of a new platform that is much more focused on the real concrete issues and the international contexts that shows how seriously we take this. This is indeed important not only in the fight against jihadism, but also because these weapons are widely used in serious crime. In concrete terms, this means that one of the police commissioners really has the task of ensuring that cooperation takes shape at EU level. So it really is the permanent point of contact and the permanent guardian of European cooperation. That is really the added value of the new design. Mr Marcouch also asked me to inform the Chamber of progress reports on how to combat firearms. I'd be happy to.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-tweedekamer-2.u5	I am not getting any clarity as to whether, for example, we have a hole at the moment. Something's been lifted and something's being set up. My impression is that tackling arms possession and arms trafficking is not a priority. That is also the signal that both the mayor of Amsterdam have already issued this is not the least of them and the chief of police of Amsterdam. So this weekend's reportage isn't on its own. Does this mean that the Minister says: at the moment there is nothing and we are setting something up? I'd say that's the wrong signal. Or is there continuity with regard to the prioritisation and handling of such dangerous weapons?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-tweedekamer-2.u6	The platform in its new form has not yet come together, but will do so in the very short term. This doesn't mean there's a gap in the approach. The approach to firearms has been and remains a priority at this time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-tweedekamer-2.u7	A spicy detail is that this rural platform was virtually quietly lifted at the end of January. My question to the Minister is: if there had been no fuss about this, would there have been a new form of cooperation in this area anyway? I am particularly asking for this because I asked the previous Minister for Security and Justice to cooperate with his colleagues in Europe through the JHA Council on this issue and in particular to ensure harmonisation of legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-tweedekamer-2.u8	The establishment of the platform in the new, intensified form is not the result of the noise as Mrs Berndsen puts it, but of the National Police's own desire to ensure that the approach to firearms crime and the arms trade, which was the old practice of the National Police, is compatible with the current domestic design and certainly with that of international colleagues in order to combat the international arms trade effectively. This shows that Mrs Berndsen's call for international cooperation is also taking shape. Whether or not the laws are harmonised is not something I can estimate as one-two-three, but with this step we will at least ensure that concrete cases can also be dealt with across borders.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-tweedekamer-2.u9	Thank you for your answers. You may stay for a while, because the next oral question will also be put to you.
