ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-10.u1	I would like to welcome the Secretary of State. Members will have two minutes to speak in this VSO.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-10.u2	Mr. Chairman. Experimented with flexible teaching times in the five-day model. It is an important experiment with positive results, but at the same time some of these schools have proved vulnerable in terms of educational quality. That is why we want to give the Secretary of State some guidance on how to proceed after this experiment. This has been knocked down in the next motion, which I will file with the ladies Straus and Ypma. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the current experiment on flexibilisation of teaching time is in line with the needs of stakeholders such as parents, pupils and teachers and schools to continue experimenting with flexible teaching times;]] [[Whereas the experiment shows that working with flexible teaching times requires a great deal from the school and that it is therefore of particular importance that education quality is in order in schools wishing to introduce flexible teaching times;]] [[calls on the Government, in the operationalisation of differentiation and flexibility of teaching time, to allow only schools which have received a basic arrangement of the inspection to be eligible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Rog, Mr Straus and Mr Ypma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31293-253]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-10.u3	Mr. Chairman. I myself would like to leave Mr Rog's motion to the Chamber, because that is a good motion. My motion is in line with it. Is it true I have 14 seconds left? [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas flexibilisation of teaching time can help to improve the quality of education of schools, including those which do not have the "excellent school" predicate;]] [[noting that the government will inform the Chamber before the summer of the development of the framework conditions to work with flexible teaching times;]] [[Considering that the "excellent school" predicate is not provided by the inspection, but by a jury based on self-established criteria to volunteer schools;]] [[calls on the government not to use the "excellent school" predicate as a prerequisite when developing the framework conditions for working with flexible teaching times;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Meenen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31293-254]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-10.u4	Mr. Chairman. Twelve primary schools experiment with flexible teaching times. Parents and students determine the days off and holidays there. In this way, work and family life can be better organised, but this must not, of course, be at the expense of educational quality. We therefore wholeheartedly support Mr Rog's motion. I do have one more question for the Secretary of State. The PvdA finds it worrying that seven schools do not follow and analyse the development of pupils sufficiently. That doesn't sound very hopeful. We have not yet received a satisfactory answer to our question for an explanation of that lack of monitoring and analysis. I hope the Secretary of State can explain this. How will schools be supported in the coming year in the areas now assessed as "weak" and "insufficient"? It is clear that the participating schools often attract many care pupils. Are the schools able to support these students sufficiently or are children going to suffer from this experiment? We shouldn't want that. The five-day model has our support, but the quality of education must never be at stake. Children need clarity, rest and regularity, with a continuous day of class and one familiar face. With a more effective use of teaching time, we can achieve that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-10.u5	Mr. Chairman. I am still waiting for Mr Van Meenen's motion, but I will start. I shall begin with Mr Rog's motion on item No. 253. I fully agree with him that quality is an important condition for the successful introduction of flexible teaching times. It's not something you just add. That is also evident from the evaluation. In that sense, you can say that this motion supports my policy. I have already indicated to the Chamber that I would first like to see what exactly is needed, also in terms of conditions and conditions, before we allow flexibility and differentiation of teaching time for the whole of education in the Netherlands. We often do that with experiments. We select schools for experiments. To begin with, we often look at the basic quality. In a single case, we also raise the bar, for example at the regular low schools. In such a superexperiment, we really must be sure that they are good schools. This is about making these laws and regulations regular. So I say to Mr Rog that I support the line. If I take the motion literally, however, there are two points that I am a little less able to deal with. The first is that I suspect that basic quality may be necessary, but is not sufficient to ensure that flexibilisation of teaching time works in a good way. That's one. I think we need additional conditions. Then I come to the second point. If I took the motion literally and we were to implement it this way, we would get a legal novel for this particular piece of legislation, because the question of whether you are allowed to use those laws and regulations will depend on the assessment of the inspection. We don't do that anywhere in the laws and regulations, for example for the regular education period. In that sense, it goes a long way. Maybe I can meet Mr. Rog. I would like to send a letter to the Chamber for the summer in which I reflect on the conditions and conditions necessary for schools to make careful use of the differentiation and flexibility of teaching time. The suggestion in this motion to look at the basic quality as a condition will be taken into account, but I will place it in a broader perspective of perhaps other conditions, which are intended to be the same or perhaps different. Maybe they'll be okay. This letter will allow us to have a good debate on what is the best way to secure this. I believe that the motion is intended to secure it well. I just don't know if this is the right way to do that. I therefore ask Mr Rog to hold his motion until the letter arrives.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-10.u6	The Secretary of State states that my motion may be policy support, but we wouldn't have filed the motion. We have submitted her, because the Secretary of State rightly pays attention in his letter to quality as a sensitive point. With this motion, we're asking for these to be secured. We do this by making basic quality a condition. So it's not about being excellent. It is not a question of not paying attention to whether weak or very weak schools can be eligible. The point is that basic quality is the norm. I honestly wonder whether the Secretary of State still believes that this motion supports policy. The intention is to give some direction to it, so that the letter to the Chamber comes more in this direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-10.u7	When I talk about support for policy, I mean that I think it would be unwise for a weak school to experiment with its teaching times and proceed with enormous flexibility. I therefore share Mr Rog's concern. If a school wants to do this right, it takes more than just good will. There must be a good plan behind it. That's what I'm sharing. However, the motion now anticipates the way in which we set up these conditions, namely that it must be basic quality. I'd like to examine that option and involve it in other conditions that you could lay down in such a bill, but I think it's a little too early to anticipate this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-10.u8	Then what's your verdict?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-10.u9	I tried to tempt Mr Rog to hold his motion until then. If he doesn't, I'm going to carefully discourage the motion. I think that is a very heavy judgement for a motion which I find very sympathetic.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-10.u10	Mr. Rog, what's it gonna be?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-10.u11	I can't conclude right now that I'm withdrawing or retaining my motion. The motion states that the basic arrangement must at least be a condition. I'll leave it at that. I hope the Secretary of State can get away with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-10.u12	You say, "I'll leave it at that." The motion is therefore not withdrawn or detained. Then the motion is dissuaded, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-10.u13	Yeah, that's right. Then I come to the Van Meenen motion on part No. 254. In my view, this is completely unnecessary, because it is not the intention at all to limit this to excellent schools. The idea was to package this into generic regulation after an experiment and not just apply it to the 60 or 70 schools that fall into the category of "excellent school." The motion is unnecessary, and I'm gonna advise her.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-10.u14	Mr Van Meenen has one short question before we move on to the next issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-10.u15	This motion is not about being limited to excellent schools at all. With this motion, I would like to avoid the predicate "excellent school" playing a role in the framework conditions that the Secretary of State will set. That would be improper. It is not a State-issued predicate. With that intention, I have tabled this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-10.u16	The predicate "excellent school" has indeed been provided by the government. It is not the intention at all to limit this to the very small category of excellent schools, because then we would not have to make it into generic laws and regulations. In my letter, I do not point out that we limit it to that group. I really think the motion is superfluous. The Chamber could also call me to such a thing would be the same in order not to limit it to Christian or public schools. I don't intend to. So it's a bit of a blow in the air.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-10.u17	There was another question from Mrs Ypma.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-10.u18	Yeah, that's an important point, because...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-10.u19	I see Mr Van Meenen standing at the interrupting microphone, but I really want to move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-10.u20	Yes, you really want to move on, but it doesn't say in the motion that it should be restricted at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-10.u21	You just got an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-10.u22	No. The Secretary of State deliberately chooses to give a completely different interpretation to this motion. She's not supposed to be like that. The Secretary of State says he's not going to limit it, as if that's the intention of the motion. However, the intention of the motion is that the predicate "excellent school" should not play a role in this assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-10.u23	I just indicated that I didn't intend to and that I never intended to. Mr Van Meenen now says: don't do that. That is why I consider the motion to be totally superfluous. I'm just gonna say this one more time: I didn't plan on doing this, and I'm not gonna do this either. That makes the motion unnecessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-10.u24	There is another question from Mrs Ypma. A short and pointy answer, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-10.u25	Mrs Ypma has a very good point. If schools are weak, for example because they do not keep up with the development of children, the inspection will of course be on top of that. At some point such a school comes under enhanced supervision. Then the school has to file an improvement plan and show that he's recovering the leg. Schools that are weak or very weak and are subject to enhanced supervision can also count on support in addition to enhanced supervision to ensure that they get their affairs back in order quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-10.u26	I thank the Secretary of State for his presence.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-10.u27	We shall be voting on both motions this evening.
