ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-13.u1	I welcome the Acting Minister for Economic Affairs. Thank you for doing so because the'real' Minister for Economic Affairs is on his way from Japan, if I may put it that way. Thank you for joining us! I call Mr Van Laar of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-13.u2	Mr. Chairman. The islands that form the Caribbean part of our country have been with us since 2010. Bonaire, Sint-Eustatius and Saba are part of the Netherlands. The volcano Mount Scenery, which actually covers the entire island of Saba, is with its 887 meters the highest point of our country. Living on a volcano is not easy in every way. For example, the construction of roads on Saba was quite a job. By the European-Dutch engineers, that job was even considered impossible. Once the local forces had completed the route from the airport to the villages, they simply named them "The road that could not be built," the road that could not be built. That is also the most beautiful street name in our country. The construction of a water supply system, however, has proved to be impossible over and over again. Each house has its own water shelter, so there is often enough water. However, the island also has a dry season in which the water runs out. Water must then be used and driven around at enormous cost. Saint Eustatius has less serious but similar problems. The water is of poor quality and expensive. How is that possible? Why isn't this solved yet? These islands have been part of the Netherlands for five years. On Saba and Saint-Eustatius live together only 5,000 people. Why can't we supply 5,000 inhabitants with clean and affordable water for consumption? That is actually a very obvious question. There wasn't nothing going on either. Solutions are still being worked on. At Sint-Eustatius 20% of the inhabitants are now connected to a water pipe. Saba talks about a water plant or the distribution of water that is purified on St.Maarten. Do these options also address the Minister? Are those options really being explored? The Labour Party believes that every Dutch citizen is entitled to sufficient clean drinking water for consumption at a low rate. It has to be affordable. Does this minister agree? If so, how does it explain the current situation that Sabanen must pay $100 for a truck of water to meet their primary living needs? Not everyone has that money. The Labour Party does not consider it fair that we apply such a hugely different tariff for drinking water between the European and Caribbean Netherlands. Shouldn't these differences be reduced? Of course, the circumstances are not comparable and so you have to organize it differently, but when it comes to affordability, the Labour Party simply wants all the inhabitants of our country to have good drinking water and that they can afford it. That's a basic value we need to meet. Where that agreement is violated, this must be undone as soon as possible. So much for the water supply on Saint Eustatius and Saba. On Bonaire the water supply is fortunately good and the price is also in order. We simply ask the Minister to keep it that way. I come to the electricity supply on our Caribbean islands, which is equally challenging. Although the islands lend themselves perfectly to generating renewable energy, oil and diesel are their fuel. Even new diesel generators are now being installed on Saba. Has sustainable alternatives been considered for these diesel generators, such as biomass, geothermal energy or tidal energy? The PvdA is not satisfied with the government's ambition for renewable energy. Why should we stop at 50% sustainably generate? In fact, that is not an ambition at all; it just makes sense to do so as much as possible. Why don't we bet on 100%? Why should that not be possible, for example in 2020, as Aruba wants? Even on the island of Soemba in Indonesia, energy will be made 100% sustainable in the coming years, with Dutch money. Why can't we do that on our own islands? Is the cabinet prepared to show real ambition and choose 100% renewable energy as ambition? Generating electricity on a small scale with diesel generators is very expensive. Electricity on the islands is as much as 40% more expensive than in the European Netherlands. An average family soon costs €360 per year. That's more than half a month's income if you earn the minimum wage. The law we are dealing with today does not resolve this problem in any way. There is a legal subsidy in place, but only to prevent price increases, and that would really be absurd. This problem calls for a solution. On the islands there is poignant and persistent poverty. This poverty is increasing, as the Spies Committee also notes. That committee recently wrote a detailed assessment of the development of the islands over the last five years. Poverty is increasing, according to the committee. Let us take the conclusions of the committee seriously. This is the first opportunity for the Cabinet and the Chamber to translate these conclusions into action. The Committee concludes that the reduction of the subsidy on fixed network costs does not seem realistic. Because of the scale disadvantages, the fixed costs will always be higher. Is the Minister prepared to say that the Chamber will be informed if the cabinet takes the advice of the committee and if it actually applies this reduction? The Committee also concludes that subsidising fixed network costs alone is not enough to achieve real impact and to make energy costs more manageable. The latter is necessary because the minimum social cost of having a decent life is already much higher than the minimum wage. So even if you work full-time, you can't cater for all the basic needs of your own family. The islands therefore have many working poor. They often have multiple jobs. Raising the minimum wage is only possible in a very limited way. This means, in our view, that the minimum cost of living should be reduced, because the social minimum will really have to be below the minimum wage. So we should not ask the islanders to keep their own pants up and continue to pay the high rates. The Labour Party does not consider that reasonable. We do not ask people living on an island or far from the power station to pay more in the European Netherlands. We all share the costs. The Dutch live in the Caribbean part of our country. They also live in the Netherlands. We therefore believe that prices should be reduced, at least for a normal average household consumption. The costs for this should not be higher than in the European Netherlands. The Labour Party has tabled an amendment to allow a different rate. How does the Cabinet view this? Is the cabinet prepared to achieve a separately lower rate for average household consumption? Finally, I would like to make a general comment. The Labour Party does support this bill, because issues such as regulation, enforcement and supervision are essential to ensure good water and energy supply. I would like to stress to the Minister that support for the islands is essential. The law must be implemented together with all those involved. If that leads to bottlenecks, we'd like to know. Legislation such as this must be in line with the needs and wishes of the people there. If we also reduce the rates considerably tonight, this law can really help Saba, Sint-Eustatius and Bonaire.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-13.u3	Mr. Chairman. 10 October this year we celebrated the anniversary of the Caribbean Netherlands. Five years ago, the islands of Bonaire, Sint-Eustatius and Saba became special municipalities of the Netherlands within the Kingdom of the Netherlands. As a result, our Kingdom consists of four countries divided between Europe and the Caribbean. After five years an evaluation has taken place and the disappointment prevails. The islands believe that, despite the agreed restraint, too many laws and rules are being introduced. These are laws and regulations that are made in the European Netherlands, but which are not necessary in the Caribbean Netherlands or can simply be different. With regard to this bill, the VVD Group believes that the importance of an affordable, reliable and efficient supply of electricity and drinking water is paramount. This applies both to the Caribbean Netherlands and to the European Netherlands, because the BES islands are far from our Chamber, but they still belong to the Kingdom and to the Netherlands. The law provides for a subsidy for the supply of electricity and drinking water, but due to the size and characteristics of the islands it is currently not possible to stop the subsidy altogether. The VVD Group believes that every effort should be made to keep the subsidy as low as possible and also to build it down. Does the Minister share this view of my group and, if so, how will this be taken into account, even after the evaluation after two years? How is it directed towards the further phasing out of these subsidies? My group also wonders how the amount of the subsidy is fixed. In the written reply, the Minister states that socially acceptable tariffs are pursued and are not aimed at objectives relating to the acceptable percentage of income spent on water or electricity. It is clearly stated that this bill should not be a policy of income. The VVD Group shares this view and thinks this is the right way forward, but which balancing framework is used to determine how high the subsidy should be? The replies also show that there is no direct legal protection against the so-called method decision, which forms the basis for the tariff space. This means that the ACM is given a high level of policy freedom to arrive at a formula through this method decision on the basis of which tariffs can be set. There is no legal protection against this. This possibility exists in the European Netherlands. We ask the Minister why this has been chosen and what possibilities there are to offer legal protection. The size of the islands also means that there is currently no room for competition in electricity and drinking water. That is why price regulation is needed. Why was an ex ante regulation chosen? This regulation sets the rate before the start of the period. The ACM sets a maximum return. The justification given in the reply is that customers can obtain certainty about the prices to be applied, but also that lengthy procedures are prevented as to what is a reasonable price. We must prevent too much subsidies. We would also like to continue to promote efficiency. Fixed prices and maximum returns in our view deprive companies of an incentive to improve, to work more efficiently and to earn more. We would like to hear from the Minister how this can be used in the evaluation in two years' time to see if the tariff regime can be changed, so that we could eventually adjust the subsidy downwards or even abolish it altogether. Sustainable energy supply is also important in the Caribbean. Sustainability in terms of reliability and affordability, but also in the form of renewable energy. In the subsurface of Saba are volcanic activities, which makes the island suitable for geothermal energy, which can be used for drinking water, but also for generating energy. This could also be an effective use of a subsidy: safe drinking water, stable energy supply and that in a sustainable way. I would like to receive a response from the Minister to this possibility. However, sustainability can also pose a threat to the stable supply of energy. Solar panels on a small grid can quickly cause instability. At night, when there is no sun, there must be storage. This technique is not yet available. This will be a difficult task, but as far as we are concerned, we are looking at all the possibilities that can be found to achieve this form of renewable energy generation. Mr Bosman, the colleague from whom I am taking over this debate, has come back to the issues of 'the size of the islands' and 'the future of the islands' in recent times. We know that the Caribbean Netherlands is significantly different from the European Netherlands. What is happening at the moment is that we in the European Netherlands come up with a lot of laws and regulations that are then unnecessary in the Caribbean Netherlands or have no effect whatsoever because there is another situation there. The BES islands are still part of the Netherlands, but it should not be a secret that the VVD Group is in favour of a commonest situation: independent countries within our beautiful Kingdom. Until then, the VVD will ensure that we do not impose standards that do not fit in the Caribbean Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-13.u4	I have heard Mrs Visser say several times that energy must be affordable, but at the same time that we must not pursue income policy. How can we guarantee affordability without doing anything about the income?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-13.u5	At least that's not what this law is for. This law is very clearly intended to put things in order. Mr Van Laar has been speaking on this dossier for a long time and has been able to see what has happened in the field of drinking water and electricity supply. That is why we are now taking firm action and ensuring proper supervision. As far as we're concerned, that's what we need to do. This law is therefore not intended to pursue income policy; it must do so in a different way. This law is intended for supervision.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-13.u6	However, the law also determines the rates and the way in which they are determined. This automatically affects people's income. We need to think about this and know what consequences this law has on that income.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-13.u7	In our view, this law is absolutely not intended for income policy. In the Netherlands, too, we do not say when setting the rates how much of the income should be spent on energy, clothing or living. We leave that to people themselves. We are pursuing income policy through taxation and not through specific legislation. This applies here and therefore also to the Caribbean region of the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-13.u8	The next speaker was Mr Van Raak, but he is absent. He's probably just inspecting the islands himself right now. Then we're gonna listen to Mrs. Klever.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-13.u9	Mr. Chairman. As we know, the PVV prefers to get rid of the BES islands, Bonaire, Sint-Eustatius and Saba as soon as possible, and pay as little as possible. These islands are a liability of the Dutch people. That is also evident from this bill. This bill regulates that the Dutchman will pay about 15% of the energy bill and 15% of the drinking water bill of the islanders. Although these islands have less than 25,000 inhabitants, 8 million dollars of subsidies go to them each year. This is over €300 per person, while the average energy bill of the islanders, including all taxes, is already around €300 lower than that of the average Dutchman. The PVV considers this disguised form of development aid undesirable. Although this subsidy is now legally anchored by this bill, this subsidy flow has been going on for years. To date, 43 million subsidies for electricity and drinking water have already been granted to the BES islands. Moreover, there is still $10 million missing, thanks to the failure of Ecopower-WEB. Have the state's attorney recovered this $10 million, I'm asking the Minister. Are those responsible behind these corrupt practices already behind bars or are they still benefiting from the unbridled flow of Dutch tax money? The PVV wants this subsidy flow to stop. I have tabled an amendment to that effect. Furthermore, we believe that the stricter control and enforcement and the enhanced supervision envisaged by this bill are necessary, so that we can at least have a better view of how our money disappears into this bottomless pit. The question is, however, whether this is the case with the measures contained in this legislative proposal or whether it remains the case with padding and wet. I would like a response from the Minister on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-13.u10	Mr. Chairman. For the inhabitants of Bonaire, Sint-Eustatius and Saba, as for the inhabitants of the Netherlands, having a reliable and affordable supply of drinking water and electricity is of great importance, not least for public health. The island authorities themselves have indicated that they need help from the Netherlands. The existing legislation is no longer satisfactory. That's why we're discussing this bill today. The CDA considers a reliable and affordable supply of drinking water and electricity vital for our residents, wherever in our Kingdom. The government therefore bears the responsibility for this. We therefore support the purpose of this law and its subsidy ring. What the CDA Group has difficulty with is that the Minister is rather vague about the objectives and financial underpinning of the subsidy. The only thing the Minister says is that after two years there will be an evaluation. But if you're not clear about your goals in advance, you'll also get a very vague evaluation. We really hope that the Minister will clarify the objectives in this debate. It talks about phasing out subsidies, but there is no justification for this. What are the objectives of the Minister for Renewable Energy in the BES Islands? Can the cost of electricity go down by using renewable energy more firmly? ECN recently came out with the possibility of producing energy from seaweed. Is that perhaps an option for the islands? To what extent can geothermal energy, wind energy and solar energy make the islands less dependent on fuel oil? Fuel oil is relatively expensive, because unfortunately it can only be brought to the islands with small ships. How will investment in renewable energy contribute to the reduction of the subsidy for electricity and water supply in the Caribbean Netherlands in 2015 and 2016? If necessary, the islands can benefit from the SDE+ scheme, we ask the Minister. In short, we expect the Minister to inform us today about the targets for the share of renewable energy in the islands. We expect the Minister to provide us with a more detailed financial basis on the subsidy and its reduction. It is now completely unclear what the Minister's expectations of phasing out the subsidy are based on. The report of the Spies Committee of 12 October with an evaluation of the Caribbean Netherlands also calls into question the phasing-out scheme. Mr Van Laar of the PvdA Group has already spoken about this. This report is very critical of the fact that it has only become worse for the islands since they are part of the Netherlands. In fact, the level of prosperity has just fallen. We know that the cabinet response to this report by the Spies Committee is yet to come, but as far as the CDA is concerned, the Minister already has the responsibility today to clarify energy and water. The CDA also wants to discuss the evaluation of the subsidy in two years' time with the Minister in the Lower House. We therefore hope that today the Minister will clarify the financial situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-13.u11	So much for the first term of office. The Minister has asked for a 15-minute reflection period.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-13.u12	Mr. Chairman. I am here on behalf of Minister Kamp. My signature is also under this bill, but he'd handle it first. Since he can't be here, I flew in. It's important to discuss it now, because it's been there for a while. It's a matter of urgency, too. It has been a while since the BES islands came into the current construction, with the responsibilities associated with it, but we have noticed that the basic needs of people are thinking about drinking water and energy supplies under the current regulations could not be properly addressed. The demands that need to be made are beyond the power of the islands. The current laws do not offer enough opportunities to properly fill in the responsibility. This has to do with several aspects. For example, the political change has led to small companies on Saba and Sint-Eustatius becoming independent of the large company on Sint-Maarten. That makes it more complex. Due to the scale of the islands, electricity and drinking water supply have to be largely redesigned and regulated. That is why the bill was also made specific to the Caribbean Netherlands. There is little market functioning in the area. There was also the question of supervision and separation of roles. With this bill, we'd better separate the roles. The shareholdership lies with the public body. The Executive Board shall be supervised by the Supervisory Board. The Supervisory Board shall be independent. The Minister must agree to the appointment. Economic supervision, including tariff regulation, lies with ACM. Quality monitoring, security of supply and technical regulation have been invested in the Inspection Environment and Transport of I and M. Authorisation and energy and drinking water policy are covered by the Minister. With this new division of roles and powers, including sanctions, ministers can fulfil their responsibility for a reliable, affordable and sustainable supply of drinking water. I will answer the specific questions asked by the Members of Parliament. I'll do it in order of the parties. The amount of input is pretty clear tonight. This is perhaps the easiest way to follow the parties themselves. The PvdA has asked why drinking water facilities have not already been realized on Saba and Sint-Eustatius. That has everything to do with it being very complex. I agree that the islands have not yet been sufficiently realised. That's because you can't make a water pipe possible for 800 households on rocky soil, for example. So you have to look at other forms. Think of investing in more storage and better quality. It's possible. We are working with the islands to realise these things. For example, I and M invest 2.6 million, together with Saba. That's going to be satisfactory. We discuss with Saint-Eustatius a better availability of clean water. That too goes well. It takes time, but we're on the right track. With this law, we support this road even further. What options do I have to solve a shortage, for example on Saba? For example, we can increase the supply of fresh water by building additional water tanks. That's what's happening right now. Saba is partly dependent on rainwater for his water supply. Since 2013 we are working together with Saba to increase the drinking water supply. The additional water tanks will be ready in 2016. Dry periods, such as those in 2015, can then be bridged. Now those periods are still a problem. Saba is also working with us to improve drinking water quality. We think we implemented the solution to this in 2016. Only in the dry periods is there expensive drinking water. We hope that by increasing the water supply we will be able to solve this problem. The differences in prices between the Caribbean Netherlands and the European Netherlands are also due to the lack of large freshwater stocks in the Caribbean Netherlands. The drinking water should be obtained by desalination. That means you have to use reverse osmosis. This is more expensive than the techniques we know and also requires a lot of electricity. When I saw the file, I was thinking Colombia, where I've been recently. There a Dutch company is working to achieve reverse osmosis based on wind energy, which is sustainable on the one hand and reduces costs on the other. Maybe that's an idea for Caribbean Netherlands as well, but that occurred spontaneously to me when I looked at the file. In the Netherlands, of course, there are large freshwater stocks. That means there are differences. In the Caribbean Netherlands, raw materials are scarce in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-13.u13	The CDA is pleased to hear that the Minister is enthusiastically considering the possibilities of wind energy, which could also reduce costs. The CDA would like a concrete roadmap to be drawn up. Can you strive for 100% renewable energy on the islands? There are already islands that want to pursue this by themselves, so it seems that this can be done. It is an area where the wind blows heavily, where there is a lot of sunshine and where there is also geothermal, so if it is possible somewhere, that would be there, as the CDA would expect. Will the Minister, together with the CDA, strive to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-13.u14	I think it is very important that water and energy supply be made more sustainable. Mr Van Laar has also asked for this. I'd like to go into this a little more in depth. Much is already happening in this area. Maybe it's good to say something about that, too. I'll start with the 100% variant. Defining the goal of 100% renewable energy within five years can turn out to be inefficient. We know that the government is now working hard on it in the Caribbean Netherlands, but until 2008 there was 0% renewable energy. Decentralised solar panels are now prohibited; this is a condition of the electricity companies. The bill will bring this ban to an end. So there will be more possibilities later, but if you commit yourself to that now, it might turn out different. You could also opt for as much durability as possible instead of that 100%. A solar park has been built on Sint-Eustatius for several months, making the share of renewable energy from 0% to 20% in March 2016. Next year a second 20% project will follow. On Saba, there are advanced plans for a solar park, which should also provide 20% of renewable energy. There is also a 20% follow-up plan. On Saba the use of volcanic geothermals is also considered; the VVD fraction was early. That would immediately yield enough electricity for Saba, Saint-Eustatius and the ten times larger Saint-Maarten. However, it is still uncertain whether this will succeed. It is also very complex, so complex that it is not expected to be achieved within ten years. However, it is promising. A wind farm was built on Bonaire in 2008, providing 35% of electricity. A central solar park is now also planned due to the authorisation of solar panels on the roofs of the customers. There too, a pilot has been running since January 2015. Sustainability is becoming more and more expensive, which is the other side of the story because of the grid stability, because of the need for storage. Windmills on the Upper Wind Islands are difficult because of the annual hurricanes. They also asked for oil-fired generators. These make the facility, at least as a backup, stable and simple, and therefore affordable. That is why it was chosen not to set a double target. The first objective of this bill is to make the electricity affordable. The second objective is sustainability, but a fixed goal of 100% renewable energy may conflict with affordability. If you make it completely sustainable, you can no longer use certain other things, such as those oil-fired generators, while they can stabilise the supply. However, I believe that you can strive for as much sustainability as possible while maintaining the principle of affordability.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-13.u15	Is the Minister also prepared to develop this further in a planned manner? Our impression is that things are just not planned enough yet. It would also be reassuring for the inhabitants to know that they are investing in this in a good way in the coming years. The CDA would like to strive for 100% sustainability, but we also see, of course, that some energy from oil-fired generators may still be needed for the stability of the networks. But because the supply of oil to the oil-fired generators is so expensive for the islands, because it has to be done with small ships, we actually have to reduce the costs. If we could do that with renewable energy, we would really be helping people to move forward. That's what the CDA would love to see. Do I find the minister on my way?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-13.u16	I think that we can simply strive together for as much sustainability as possible. I think that's what we're planning on doing. So, as I have just said, a lot is already happening. Because of the stability of the network, it would indeed be undesirable to commit ourselves to the 100%, but we should opt for, for example, a motion to monitor it. I think I have answered Mr Van Laar's questions on that point. He was on that line, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-13.u17	Sure, thank you for that answer. The cabinet has set a target, which is 50%. The cabinet also says: we're not going over that. But when I hear the Minister now, that 50% is already pretty much achieved with the current plans. Then why doesn't the cabinet itself opt for a higher ambition?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-13.u18	If I add it up now, I'm about 40%: in 2010 to 20% and then in the next plan 20%. So you're about 40%. I therefore believe that 50% is a more ambitious percentage, which at least raises the bar a little. The question is always whether you need to reason from percentages or whether you need to look together to see how it can be made more sustainable and what beautiful projects can be devised for that purpose. Mr Van Laar has asked a number of questions about electricity. He's worried about the affordability of electricity. He is also concerned about the affordability of drinking water for certain populations. I understand very well that there are concerns about the amounts and that he is concerned about them. At the same time, I also share Mrs Visser's view that such a bill like this is not really intended to be used for income policy. Income policies carried out through energy prices or drinking water prices can often be counterproductive. For example, if you artificially lower tariffs for consumers who consume little kilowatt hours per year, the millionaires who only stay on the island a few months a year will also benefit. An electricity company simply cannot look behind the front door; that cannot be seen for who is ultimately achieving that reduction. It could also be an option to keep prices artificially low for everyone. This happens, for example, in Indonesia with petrol. However, this would cost a great deal of money, which would result in a waste of energy and would benefit middle and high incomes most. So I think that fixing purchasing power through lower prices is not a good idea, but that you need to look much more at how to support those groups that really need it through other forms of income policy. Tax or other products have already been discussed in this context. Does this mean that we want to keep the prices of water and electricity high? No, because of course we want those prices down as much as possible. I also think it is important to discuss how we can reduce electricity and water costs as much as possible. I told you, on the small islands, electricity is traditionally generated by generators that run on oil products. That's the most expensive way to generate electricity. The aim is therefore to generate as much energy as possible in a sustainable way. This requires investment, but it also ensures that you do not have recurring fuel costs, as Mrs Mulder just said. The conditions for solar and wind energy on the islands are simply favourable. The supply of drinking water by means of energy-intensive reverse osmosis drinking water from sea water is also costly. Bonaire has a wind farm. We also want to expand that park. Saba and Statia are still fully powered by diesel. Plans for these large-scale parks that I just mentioned can also mean a lot. Given the current situation and the resources available, there is still a relatively high amount of money, but with all the intentions to make it more sustainable, the price will fall in the coming years. The Dutch government also contributes considerably to keeping electricity and drinking water affordable. That brings me to the subsidies.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-13.u19	Could the Minister inform us in a letter about the exact nature of the reduction in subsidies? It indicates that renewable energy will bring the price down and that this will be beneficial for the people there and for us as well. Could she put that on paper for us so that we know it before the votes?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-13.u20	I just got into the grants. Indeed, the bill regulates subsidies to ensure that the price goes down further. Those subsidies were established on the basis of a calculation model based on the investment programmes of the different suppliers. On this basis, it has been examined where there is an excessive deficit. What will we have to fill? In recent years, costs have fallen enormously. In 2012 we started a network grant on Bonaire, with six cents per kilowatt hour. Thanks to improvements in the company, the subsidy has already been reduced to two dollar cents per kilowatt hour. At present, net losses are higher on all islands than in the European Netherlands. There is therefore also an improvement possible, which can further reduce network costs. In the end, the subsidy for the network tariff will go down. It is difficult to look into the future and that is why we have said that we are going to evaluate in two years' time. We expect that the subsidy can be reduced considerably again, but until the end of the legislative period it says ten years we will still need some kind of subsidy. So there is no exact cost model, on the basis of which you can say "as much cents a month it goes down," but this is the calculation model behind it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-13.u21	The Minister would help us if she would just put that on paper for a short time. Sounds like it's based on past results. So there's not nothing to count on. That doesn't give the Chamber any more insight. That is why I ask the Minister if she is prepared to put that on paper for us. The point is that we know that it is indeed committed to the maximum possible use of sustainability and that this combination is being followed. Then I think the CDA Group is already very pleased with this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-13.u22	As I said, we determine this reduction annually, in consultation with the distributors, on the basis of the investment programmes and the actual situation. This is subject to a maximum limit. Customization remains necessary. You asked for a letter about the phasing-out for the future. I can't control it. I think I have just made it clear how we are doing. I don't know if you really want that on paper again, but that's actually how it goes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-13.u23	I heard the Minister say that the subsidies are supposed to be phased out in ten years, but what guarantee is there now in the law that these subsidies will actually be phased out?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-13.u24	I have just indicated how they have gone down considerably over the past three years. Slowly large maintenance is now running in, so that gives even more possibilities to bring it down. Knowledge is updated and I also call it a more efficient business operation. On Bonaire there is already 40% efficiency gains. Guarantees can never be given, because you don't know what's going on in the future, but based on the past, you can clearly see that it's greatly improving. Mrs Mulder just said the same thing. It is not for nothing that we have built in an evaluation after two years. Then we can see for ourselves whether this downward line has actually been deployed and what we have to do until the end of that ten-year period. Then it is up to all of us to decide whether we want to go through with this or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-13.u25	Yes, but of course this is quite non-binding. If the Minister is convinced that the path of the past two years will continue in the future, can she include it in the law? Then it can accept the hard demand to cut these subsidies and within how many years that has to be done, because this is all very vague. If we evaluate in a few years' time and find out that the subsidies have not been cut at all, we have nothing at all and we are empty-handed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-13.u26	At the moment, we are also giving subsidies, under the current legislation. What we are proposing in this law is to regulate it better, to make it more efficient and to improve supervisory relations. The law itself does not contain a subsidy, but gives the possibility to subsidise. We have also indicated what we would like to spend on subsidies and how we envisage the phasing-out over the next few years. There is also a subsidy in the existing situation. Under the current law, we want to continue that in a decreasing pattern. That's our bet. Until the end of the ten-year period, subsidies will always be needed, albeit to a decreasing extent. I think it will only improve on the current situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-13.u27	I just wanted to take another step back to the rates. The Minister says that we should not pursue income policy. That's a position I do know from the VVD. It is a pity that the cabinet also welcomes this. The question is, of course, whether that is the right approach. For us, the most important starting point is that the approach that these islands should be self-sufficient is not correct. They are part of the Netherlands and in the Netherlands we also make no distinction to how difficult it is to get energy somewhere. You're just paying the same rate. I would ask the Minister to reflect on that. My second question is why it is income policy to do something about the variable rate, but not income policy to do something about the fixed rate. We're just looking at affordability and how we work it out in fairness and reasonableness, aren't we? I do not see the difference between these two, regardless of whether they are desirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-13.u28	The fixed rate is the same as in the Netherlands. It is divided between all residents, whether you are in Ameland or Amsterdam, while it is a lot more complicated to deliver it in Ameland than in Amsterdam. The variable costs are simply consumption. It's logical that you charge people more for more use and less for less use. It's in here, too. In addition, Mr Van Laar wants to have an additional variation for specific groups, because the burden on certain parties is too heavy. I say to this: do not use this law for that, but use it as it always does in the case of income policy, as it always does in the case of island tax legislation or exemption programmes or so on. You shouldn't mix that kind of thing with each other. I think Mr Van Laar had another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-13.u29	Why we would even apply a different rate in the Caribbean Netherlands than in the European Netherlands. After all, it's just one country.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-13.u30	Because there really is a difference in the costs that go with it. I just tried to make that clear. In the European Netherlands, the cost of water, for example, is much lower than on such an island. Other things will be cheaper and more favourable to them than here in the Netherlands. So it's not like we have one rate because we're one country. We have tried to make customization in the bill and to help the islands at the same time, to reduce the rates as much as possible. Otherwise, you're going to transfer a substantial subsidy to the islands for electricity. If you do that, the question is whether you are taking away incentives that create sustainable use, incentives for people to handle energy and water with caution and restraint, because that is what we want to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-13.u31	I have already responded to the amendment that has been tabled. I have, of course, also consulted with my fellow Minister, who has a real objection to this being done along this road. I can tell the Chamber that it might be an idea to see if we can monitor in the coming years what percentage of income is actually going to be, whether prices are going to be lower and whether our predictions will ultimately be more affordable. That is an alternative to such an amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-13.u32	The amendment only makes it possible to deal with the variable rate for a specific part of consumption. So you do not have the drawbacks that the Minister presents of making the whole consumption cheaper. The amendment does not yet mention how we should do that, although it is, of course, in the explanatory statement. If we adopt the amendment, however, we will only make it possible. If we are going to monitor it, as the Minister says, should we at least create the possibility in the law? If the outcome of that monitor is that there are undesirable issues, should we really be able to do something about it? So I do not understand why the cabinet is against the amendment so quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-13.u33	Actually, I just said that. I think you should use other buttons to conduct income policy than this legislation. We also think that it will be not so bad in the end. We expect prices to go down, because so much investment is now being made in all kinds of sustainable energy supplies. In addition, we do not really want to provide this subsidy in this way, while here in the Netherlands we are trying to make energy use a little more expensive to prevent it from being used in the wrong way. Those are some of the underlying reasons. I suggested monitoring to make sure that the Chamber can get a picture. However, as far as I am concerned, it is not necessary. It was more creative thinking along.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-13.u34	The CDA Group considers this monitoring to be important, because Mrs Spies' report was very clear. I think it is rather disappointing for the inhabitants of the BES islands that this has happened over the past five years. We are discussing this law today. If, in fact, it turns out that it is a very heavy burden for the inhabitants of these islands, the CDA would appreciate it if the Minister would come back to that in the evaluation. If it could make that commitment, the CDA Group would be very pleased with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-13.u35	I believe that this is possible because we are always monitoring the effects of our legislation in our relationship with the islands. I am always the first to call for restraint in imposing laws on islands that they are difficult to comply with. At the same time, their own legislation in this area did not help. In any case, it did not ensure that better energy was available and more drinking water at a reasonable rate. That is why we are putting this into practice. If you put something like this into practice, you will of course also have the discussion that you will be co-responsible for the costs that ultimately result from it. I think it's good that we keep an eye on that. If it turns out that there's a crooked relationship going on, I still think you should use other instruments to compensate for that than the law itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-13.u36	I can totally agree with that. I do not think it should be income policy either. However, the report is there. It is not until six months from now that the government's response comes with an appreciation of this whole report. It is a very clear report and I think that the way in which the last five years have gone on for the people there is very disappointing. What I read in that report scares me. Then I think it is our responsibility to keep a close eye on the fact that this will not be one of the instruments that would increase costs further.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-13.u37	The question is to keep an eye on what it means, and we can certainly do that. Mr Van Laar also asked about the inequality in tariffs. He wants to know why. There is, of course, already a distinction in tariffs. There is a rate on Bonaire of 0% for the first three cubic meters. When necessary, for example in dry times, there is a subsidy on transporting water to Saba. In this way, people who decrease less pay less for drinking water and electricity. That is what the subsidy is for. Every year, Bonaire receives 1.4 million, Saint Eustatius €193,000 and Saba €93,000. Mr Van Laar asks for the support for the law. He considers it important that the various residents and stakeholders were involved. I understand that the Spies Committee saw this bill as an example of a positive consultation. At least that's what I heard. I too think it is important that it should be done properly in this way. The VVD wonders how we can keep the subsidy limited. A little bit has already been said about how the grant was made and how we will monitor the grant in the future. We do this by making demands on the grant, monitoring and annual reports, through ACM's monitoring of ILT's tariffs and monitoring of implementation. Especially through investing in sustainability, we are trying to make the subsidies superfluous in the future. I have just said something about the reduction from six cents to two cents. In two years' time, an evaluation will follow and we hope to sit even better. The VVD has asked a number of questions about the role of ACM and the regulation ex ante. For ACM, the possibility of legal protection against a decision is governed by the General Administrative Law Act in the European Netherlands and by the Administrative Law Act BES on the BES Islands. In both laws, the main rule is that objections and appeals against decisions of general scope, such as a method decision, are not possible. The system of the AMvB has the possibility to make an exception. This has been done for method decisions under the Electricity Act 1998. That exception is not included in the system of the BES Administrative Jurisdiction Act. It is not obvious to change the legal protection system in the BES Islands specifically for this bill. That is not necessary either, because there is legal protection against tariff decisions. This will also allow the issue of the method decision to be raised. It also has to do with the fact that it is not in other BES regulations to include such an exception. There is the difference with the regulations in the Netherlands. They also asked why an ex ante scheme was chosen. The companies are effectively all monopolist. Citizens and businesses must be protected from possible disadvantages. Against this background, fixing ex ante of the maximum rate is not too heavy a tariff arrangement. This also applies to monopolists in the European Netherlands, such as network operators. The alternative is ex post supervision. This leads to procedures on the tariffs applied in the past, with the risk of retroactive change, which could lead to post or refund. In the preparation of the proposal it appeared that customers in the Caribbean Netherlands would like to receive an exact invoice each month for the previous month. Even an administratively lighter system with a fixed monthly amount and an annual account, household customers find bewildered with figures. It is also a bit how one wants it to be. Therefore, tariffs for both customers and companies should be fixed in advance. The VVD wonders whether subsidies, fixed prices and maximum returns will deprive companies of the incentive to improve themselves. A company is encouraged to work more efficiently in ex ante regulation. The income and rates are then fixed in advance for a few years. These are partly based on subsidy revenues and reasonably foreseeable returns. If a company works more efficiently and thereby reduces costs, it may retain the resulting additional profit. That is therefore an incentive to save costs. If, after the end of the period, revenues and tariffs are re-established at the efficient level, citizens and businesses will also benefit from the cost savings. This is a widely used way of regulating worldwide. There is also ex ante regulation in the European Netherlands. It has been asked whether I can consider in the review of the law in two years' time whether the type of tariff regulation could be different. We have planned an evaluation of subsidies in two years' time and not an evaluation of the law itself. This evaluation will also identify possible problems on other financial aspects. So it's quite possible that's gonna come up. If it turns out that regulation leads to problems, we will of course tackle the problem. The preparation and consultation of the bill, and experience in the European Netherlands, give me the confidence that there is a good system in the proposal. The VVD Group has also asked a question about volcanic geothermals on Saba. I was just talking about that very briefly. In 2012 a first study was conducted on volcanic geothermals on Saba. This resulted in a 30% chance that such a project will succeed. If it succeeds, it's a very attractive option. The Rijksdienst voor Ondernemend Nederland is conducting a preliminary study on geothermal energy on Saba. The problem here is the complexity and the burden of nature on Saba at drilling. There's not enough room on Saba. A power station on that island would generate far too much for Saba alone. Then you'll have to include the other islands as well. If you choose to do so, then agreements must be made on the sharing of costs between companies and countries. Electricity cables must therefore be laid over the rocky seabed. Geophysical research and test drilling are also needed. As a result, it takes quite a long time before this can really be achieved. Meanwhile, the electricity company is causing structural losses. That doesn't make it any easier to get all this done. However, we think this is important. EZ is working on a further investigation into geothermals. At the same time a solar park is being developed with the electricity company, which can earn back in the meantime. So that's what's going on. The investigation into geothermals will not stop, but will continue. We hope that this will eventually lead to a good business case, because this is indeed an attractive form. Mrs Klever of the PVV asked where the 10 million dollars embezzled at the Water and Energy company Bonaire remained. I understand that an SEO investigation has shown that there is an unexplained difference of $10 million. However, it is not yet clear what this is about. It hasn't been explained whether the money has disappeared or been embezzled. The cabinet takes that unexplained difference extremely seriously, of course. That's why a follow-up investigation has now been launched under the guidance of the state attorney. The final report hasn't been completed yet. As soon as it is available, the Minister of EZ will inform the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-13.u38	Does the Minister have any idea when that report is expected from the state attorney?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-13.u39	No, I don't. I see the final report has not yet been completed. That's all the information I've got on this from EZ. Maybe one of the officials can call me a deadline when I answer the rest of the questions. However, it is better to do this kind of thing carefully. So we need to get the state's attorney to do this right. Perhaps at the end of my term I received an answer to this question. Otherwise, the answer is that we don't know it yet. I have already answered some of Mrs Mulder's questions from the CDA, because she forced me to do so early on through the interrupting microphone. We have already talked about the objectives and the basis of the subsidy. It has been asked whether the SDE scheme can be used by the islands. That is not the case, because the subsidy applies only to the European part. We have also been asked what we are doing there in terms of sustainability. What we are doing there, I have just mentioned a large part of it. It is therefore a question of solar parks, wind farms and such things. The government does a lot for renewable energy in the Caribbean Netherlands. I do not see much new information in relation to what I have just mentioned in the text that is before me at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-13.u40	ECN has recently written in one of its reports that seaweed may offer opportunities for energy extraction. With us in the North Sea it is quite busy; the Minister knows all about it. Perhaps in the Caribbean part of the Kingdom there is more room for the extraction of energy from seaweed. Is that right? I imagine this is a rather specialist question. So if the answer comes in the second term or at a later date, I fully understand that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-13.u41	I knew you could get healthy eating seaweed, but not that you can get energy out of it. But if you can extract energy from it as a human being, you can probably also extract energy from it in a different way. However, I am not so familiar with this. In the second term, I will return to the opportunities for this and indicate whether this is being looked at at at all in that area. In the meantime, I have an answer to Mrs Klever's question. The lawyer's report is expected to come out on 1 December. The Minister of EZ will then have to study this and then send it to the Chamber. As regards access to renewable energy and energy saving schemes in the Netherlands, this does not apply to SDE+ schemes. But we also do a lot of sustainable projects there. We have already discussed the question of how the subsidy can be reduced. I think I have answered most of Mrs Mulder's questions before. In six months' time we will come up with a definitive answer to the overall picture of the Spies Committee. I have heard a number of questions from Members of the Chamber. On the one hand, these were questions about the subsidy: are you sure it will be phased out at the end; do you ensure that supervision will be firm and good? That was one of the PVV questions, of which we indicated at the beginning of the debate what it would look like. On the other hand, we have been asked what this means for the individual citizens. Mr Van Laar and Mrs Mulder also wondered whether the pressure would not be too high there. I have tried to explain that this proposal is working well for everyone and that it is important for the Chamber to adopt it. I hope and assume that after my speech there will be no too much change. The Minister of EZ would also be very pleased.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-13.u42	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the Minister's first term. However, I have two further requests. In this way, we have missed your appreciation of the Van Laar amendment. We have had an extensive discussion, but we are not sure what your opinion is. The second request concerns Mrs Klever's amendment; we would like to hear your appreciation of that amendment. If that's possible, the Chamber can take that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-13.u43	I can, but I'll have to look for it. I assumed that my appreciation in the debate had become a little clear, knowing that this law does not require you to pursue income policy. On the amendment to item No. 2 of the motion for a resolution (Doc. I would like to say to Mr Van Laar that the market in the Caribbean Netherlands is quite different. The bill also respects these differences. It introduces a very different market design and price regulation from the European Netherlands. According to the Cabinet, the amendment damages this customization for the unique situation in the Caribbean Netherlands. The incentive for companies to work efficiently disappears and existing inefficiency can be continued because the Empire does pay extra. That is not the development I am proposing for the Caribbean Netherlands. That is why I do not recommend the amendment. I have to look for the other amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-13.u44	That is the amendment to item No. 9.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-13.u45	The purpose of this amendment is to remove the subsidy on transport charges. I also advise against this amendment, because the goals of safe and reliable utilities are also very important for the Caribbean Netherlands. The cabinet is working strongly with the islands to achieve the necessary improvements. This brings with it responsibilities and costs for the Empire and the islands. The granting of subsidies by the Empire is carefully considered and clear agreements are made on the use of funds. The cabinet is convinced of the need for the possibility of subsidy. In cooperation with the islands, the improvement of utilities in the Caribbean Netherlands is being achieved. In the Netherlands transport costs are socialised, which means that in a densely populated area like The Hague the same rate is applied as in a sparsely populated area like a Wadden Island. This socialisation is extended to the Caribbean Netherlands in the legislative proposal. It is not efficient to regulate socialisation through the European system operators, hence the government subsidy. This subsidy is included as revenue in the price regulation by the ACM. The incentive for price regulation to continue to work efficiently remains the same as in the European Netherlands. Grant is not development aid, nor are socialized tariffs on a Wadden Island.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-13.u46	Thank you. This really brings us to the end of the Minister's first term. We shall continue with the second term, starting with Mr Van Laar.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-13.u47	Mr. Chairman. We thank the Minister for the first-term answers. It is clear that the law is an improvement on the current management situation of companies and so on. However, we still have differences of opinion on tariffs. The Minister says that the first goal of the law is affordability. Then we have to look at how the rates affect people's incomes. What is affordability different? People now often spend 30% of their income on energy and water. After the rent, that is the largest item of expenditure and sometimes that item of expenditure is even greater than the rent. An average family in the Caribbean Netherlands lives below the poverty line, around the minimum wage or below. On the islands, the minimum wage is not sufficient to meet the primary necessities of life. That's what bothers us. The islands are part of the Netherlands and we have to deal with them. That is income policy, it is said, so 'that is why we are against it'. It escapes the Labour Party why this income policy would be, if lowering the fixed costs is not and if having a variable rate in the supply of drinking water is not. Why should a variable rate in electricity supply or income policy be? It's a nice label you can put on it. You can put it away and say: we are not going to do that. As far as we are concerned, a variable rate is necessary. That is why we have also tabled an amendment which allows us to arrange for a special rate to be set for a proportion of electricity or drinking water consumption to be determined. In the amendment we do not say anything about the level of the special rate or about the coverage. We can talk about that with each other. In adopting this law, we should at least take this amendment with us, so that that discussion remains possible. Otherwise we will have to do it again later by means of an initiative law, which seems to me to be a bit cumbersome. I'm asking for the cabinet's reflection. This amendment is very technical. It's been figured out if it's possible and how it's possible, but it's possible. Later we can talk about its implementation, but I hope that the cabinet will reconsider its opinion. I have two further motions on matters that we have discussed. The first is about the amendment. That is what we are trying to do. We'd be happy to hold the motion if necessary. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas tariffs for electricity are set annually in the BES Islands and can be reached by means of a special tariff reduction on end-user costs;]] [[calls on the Government to fix the special rate so that the average household consumption of electricity can be reduced at a maximum of the average rate applicable in the European Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Laar. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34089-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-13.u48	Then I have another motion on water. It's a little longer. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas drinking water is a basic requirement for all Dutch people and drinking water prices in the Caribbean Netherlands are significantly higher than in the European Netherlands;]] [[noting that the zero-dollar rate will apply to the first 3 cubic metres of drinking water to be reduced and that it is still uncertain whether 3 cubic metres is and will remain the average daily drinking water consumption;]] [[calls on the government to ask the island authorities whether the average drinking water consumption remains below 3 cubic metres;]] [[calls on the Government to investigate the introduction of a prepaid system on Saba and Saint-Eustatius, so that residents there can buy their daily drinking water requirements for consumption at European Dutch rate;]] [[invites the Government to inform the Chamber of the monitoring results and the results of the investigation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Laar. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34089-11]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-13.u49	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for the answers to my questions. The Minister confirmed in the first term that we will continue to spend at least ten years on subsidies for the supply of electricity and drinking water to the BES islands. If we are also going to fill these islands with wind turbines, as the CDA wants, the inhabitants will soon come back to us for additional subsidies to cover the loss of income due to declining tourism. The PVV absolutely doesn't like that. I shall therefore table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that EUR 43 million has already been paid by the Dutch taxpayer through various grants for electricity and drinking water supplies in the BES islands;]] [[whereas Dutch households face increasing energy taxes every year while residents of the BES islands do not pay energy taxes;]] [[calls on the Government to stop providing subsidies for electricity and drinking water supplies in the BES Islands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Klever. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34089-12]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-13.u50	Mr. Chairman. Perhaps it would be a good thing if I took up the words of my colleague from the PVV Group. Everything that is done about sustainability in the BES islands will have to be done in good consultation with the inhabitants. We have seen that this goes well in some places in the Netherlands, for example in Delfzijl with our own alderman IJzebrand Rijzebol. If you start talking to each other early, that could go really well. If you do that wrong, you might end up in the situation Mrs Klever just described. I couldn't help but react briefly to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-13.u51	I have a strong impression that Mrs Klever cannot resist responding to this again. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-13.u52	We should not repeat the energy debate here, but it is a fact that a study on the location of wind turbines off the coast in North Holland shows that this leads to job losses due to the absence of tourism. I'm afraid we're going to get that on the BES islands if we fill it with wind turbines.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-13.u53	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-13.u54	Does Mrs. Mulder see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-13.u55	In fact, the CDA requested that investigation. We have also called for windmills to be placed on the coast outside the 12 mile zone. That's what I'm saying just to specify what the CDA was like in there. However, it is important that you consult with the inhabitants early. It could be seaweed, geothermal, windmills or solar panels. With regard to this whole mix of renewable energy, you will have to have a good plan for the islands. The CDA is committed to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-13.u56	I am glad that the CDA also sees that these wind turbines are a danger to tourism in the BES islands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-13.u57	If the inhabitants of the BES islands do not see it that way, then who am I to tell them that they should see it that way? I'd like to leave that to them. For the CDA, this is subsidiarity in optima forma. I would like to thank the Minister for her first answer. I would also like to thank her for her commitment to monitor, until the evaluation, the share of water and electricity costs in the daily costs for the inhabitants of the islands. The Minister also said that she wanted to see what she could do about it if it were too high. We'll know in two years. We'll wait and see. I shall table the next motion for a resolution on this matter. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the islands of the Caribbean Netherlands are very suitable for the production of renewable energy;]] [[Whereas the inhabitants of the islands are often dependent on expensive fuel oil;]] [[Calls on the Government to come forward with a plan aimed at achieving an affordable and maximum sustainable energy supply, if possible 100%, in the BES Islands and the Chamber to inform about this before the summer of 2016,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Agnes Mulder and Mr Van Laar. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34089-13]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-13.u58	I have tabled this motion, although the Minister has already come a long way in our direction. I would like to thank her for her genuine commitment to sustainability. Let us look at this more plannedly, also on the basis of the figures we have heard from the Minister today. It would be nice if we could get an indication of that for the summer of 2016.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-13.u59	Mr. Chairman. Finally, I have four motions and two amendments. I have already replied to those two amendments, so I shall begin with the motions. Do you always have to start with an amendment or a motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-13.u60	I think you have already done the amendments, so I think you can just move on to the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-13.u61	Then I'll move on to the four motions. The Van Laar motion in part No. 10 calls for the special rate on the basis of the amendment, because the motion is linked to it, in such a way that the average household consumption of electricity costs up to the average rate in force in the European Netherlands and the cost of this is distributed equally over an increase in the other rates in the Caribbean and in the European Netherlands. I advise against this motion. Subsidising energy consumption runs counter to the savings objectives, even if the subsidy is not financed by the public authorities but by other consumers. The energy bill in the Caribbean Netherlands is $1,600 a year and in the Netherlands including gas, because we also have to heat over $2,000 a year. In addition, it is administratively inefficient to collect this relatively small amount through the electricity account. The overall cost would be €0,00003 or €0,0003 per kilowatt hour and less than €0.10 for an average household. It also puts solidarity to the test, because there is a new tax on the electricity bill, while in the Caribbean Netherlands there is no energy tax and no VAT to be paid, so I would advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-13.u62	Then there's another motion-Van Laar to piece number. 11, about drinking water. It asks the island authorities to ask if the average drinking water consumption remains below 3 cubic metres; to investigate the introduction of a prepaid system on Saba and Sint-Eustatius, so that residents there can buy their daily drinking water needs for consumption at European Dutch rate; to inform the Chamber about the monitoring results and the results of the research. I agree with this motion, so I leave it to the Chamber to decide. We believe that it is in fact within the three cubic metres. We can see if we can make it even easier for the residents. We can investigate whether such a prepaid system can be implemented there. The Klever motion in part No. 12 calls on the Government to stop providing subsidies for electricity and drinking water supplies to the BES islands. With regard to the same amendment, there is another chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-13.u63	We'll do everything we can to confuse you a little tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-13.u64	Exactly. My reaction to that amendment was that it is undesirable. As a government, we want to achieve a good and stable supply of energy and drinking water in the BES islands. At this stage we want to support them, so that the companies do not fall over, otherwise nothing will happen at all. We therefore consider it necessary to achieve this subsidy. Well, there's an evaluation to end that eventually. I advise against this motion. I shall now turn to the motion by Mrs Mulder and Mr Van Laar, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. 13, about the fuel oil. The Government is invited to come forward with a plan aimed at achieving an affordable and maximum sustainable energy supply, if possible 100%, in the BES Islands and the Chamber by summer 2016. Like I said, we're already on a lot of business. We do this fairly well by island. I have already mentioned many examples. We're just gonna keep doing that. We weren't going to come to the Chamber specifically with a separate plan, so I'll leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. Then there is Mrs Mulder's question about seaweed. That's real future music, it's still in the research phase. We follow this and stimulate research and innovation. We want to work for the islands now with concrete things, with sun and wind, but that does not mean that this could not become a future-rich variant. It is still very far from a practical approach that can already be used.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-13.u65	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-13.u66	Mrs Mulder has another question about seaweed. I think we're gonna see the minister through this for half an hour.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-13.u67	I wasn't going to, Mr. Chairman. Geothermics are also investigated as a possibility and is also in an initial phase. The Minister could look at seaweed in the same way, precisely because you have a lot of sea there and it could be a good opportunity. Of course, it is in its infancy and it is something for the future, but perhaps the Minister still wants to look at this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-13.u68	I told you, it's in the research phase. So it's being looked at. We need to get to work on a few practical things first. On the islands, sun and wind are the most feasible at the moment. In the Netherlands we are also working on wind, but at the same time we are looking at fresh and saltwater energy and at tidal energy, although we cannot yet use it. I believe that this phase of research will satisfy your wishes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-13.u69	I see this as a kind of commitment to consider how it could be applied in the future. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-13.u70	I think it is important to realise that these organisations themselves must come up with energy forms, so we should not say from the Netherlands that we should go there from now on or anything else you could think of. I think this is in the research phase around the world. If it gets really attractive, people will get started soon enough. One final comment. I have already responded to the amendments. Mr Van Laar said that he hoped that the government would reconsider its opinion. I'm afraid I can't say. I've said before that I understand his concern about the residents. I do have the feeling that rates in the Netherlands and on the islands are moving fast towards each other, also because sometimes it is not taken into account that we also pay VAT and REB here in the Netherlands, while they are not included in the rates on the islands. Those prices are therefore moving towards each other fairly quickly. We are working on this by mainly trying to achieve cheaper energy and drinking water by promoting sustainability. What remains is that this may be an excessive amount of income for some people. Nevertheless, I am and remain of the opinion that this should be compensated by other legislation than this one.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-13.u71	Thank you, Minister, for your presence and for your energy this evening. Next Tuesday we will be voting on the legislative proposal, the amendments and the motions for resolutions.
