ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-eerstekamer-3.u1	I would like to welcome the initiators, Mrs Bergkamp, Mrs Van Ark, Mrs Yücel, Mr Van Dijk and Mr Klaver, and the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations to the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-eerstekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. It is ironic that a legislative proposal aimed at providing some legal certainty and clarity on a small part of the right has undergone such a confusing parliamentary treatment as this and that it has taken such a completely different form from the original proposal after revised draft legislative texts and notes of amendment. The result is, at least in the eyes of the CDA Group, a text which many citizens will hardly understand. Is it necessary to amend the text of the General Law on equal treatment in the sense of the legislative proposal before us? In the opinion of my group, this is not the case. It concerns a section on which only two to three issues have been submitted to the then Committee on Equal Treatment over more than 20 years, compared to a total of around 1,000 to 2,000 per year. The Commission's opinions on equal treatment on the basis of the text of the law are also satisfactory in these specific cases. So even if one does not want to give weight to the number of cases, what my group can understand very well, it is difficult to maintain that there is a substantial degree of ambiguity in the right to this point. However, the bill is before us and I am happy to give my group's views on it. I am not going to go into the somewhat curious passages in the original explanatory memorandum relating to parts of the legislative proposal that have not been maintained. These passages sometimes give a somewhat strange reflection on the phenomenon of unity and diversity in civil society organisations, whether they be schools, political parties, church societies or other institutions. The text to which they refer has rightly been deleted or amended by the explanatory passages which have become meaningless. I am therefore concentrating on the proposal as it is now before us and on the explanatory statement which relates directly to it. Because, as has been said, the treatment has not been so clear so far, my group needs to make a number of points. From the relevant parts of the parliamentary debate, my group has distilled the following. I will make this point on a point-by-point basis. 1. The applicants have confirmed that they do not interfere with the secondary suitability of fundamental rights as a constitutional principle. Nor do the members of the CDA Group. They also attach importance to a dignified fundamental rights balance in the General Law on Equal Treatment. In addition, the secondary fitness is also at the forefront. 2. Behaviour of employees in the private and working environment can be distinguished and should often also be distinguished. However, there are situations in which private behaviour can be relevant to any employer in a work situation. The proposers also confirm that. I quote, on behalf of my group, the recent news that being an official does not tolerate the membership of a motorcycle gang. 3. There is also a distinction between the private sphere and the working environment for institutions with a religious, philosophical or political basis. This is without prejudice to the fact that there are situations in which the credible functioning of these organisations may have consequences for the working environment. 4. The latter may take decisions in respect of staff, members or clients in the framework of their personnel policy, other than other institutions, which distinguish them by reason of religion, belief or political orientation. This can only be traced back to the basis of the institution concerned if this is the case. 5. The characteristics used must be substantial, legitimate and justified in view of the nature of the involvement of staff, member or client, and the nature of the activities and the context in which those activities are carried out. 6. By letter of amendment and in accordance with the opinion of the Council of State, good faith and loyalty were added to the foundation of the institution necessary for its implementation. 7. It is a matter of urgency and ultimately remains before the courts to weigh all the relevant facts and circumstances in the specific situation. It is therefore also up to the court to clarify the concepts of "loyalty" and "good faith." 8. The text leaves room for judgment. It is difficult to predict exactly how it will work in the specific case, but it is likely to be in line with the terminology of the directive. Can the initiators and the government confirm these key points, which my group has drawn from the relevant parts of the parliamentary debate? A few years ago, in the case of hammering, the First Chamber adopted an amendment to the General Law on Equal Treatment, which provided for equal treatment between the definitions of the law and those of the European Directive. At that time, there was pressure on time, because the European Commission threatened an inter-group procedure. A few years ago, therefore, a partial amendment was chosen and a complete revision of the law has not yet been carried out. It would have meant that the whole system of laws had to be taken on board. My group believes that this complete revision is necessary, because this partial change means that the initial term 'distinguish' has been retained in the definition. This term no longer implies a neutral distinction, as it used to be, but has been replaced by the pejorative definition of the European Directive. My group reads this situation in a way that the current law and also the legislative proposal in its form are still based on a closed system with a traditional concept of 'distinguishment', but that the actual terminology of the directive, i.e. the pejorative concept of 'discrimination', is actually applied by adapting to the directive. As a result, the substantive provisions of the law and the legislative proposal are coloured in a slightly different way and the substantive scope of the bill is somewhat limited. The objective of the current legislative proposal, where relevant, was twofold. First, the removal from the General Law of equal treatment of the single-fact structure because of the excessive infringement of the principle of non-discrimination. Secondly, adapting the articles of law in line with the European Directive while maintaining the terminology of the General Law on Equal Treatment. As far as this first objective is concerned, for the CDA Group, the current law, including the single-fact structure, is not sacred in itself. The single-fact structure is a tool in a process of balancing a situation and of the arguments and circumstances of the parties having a disagreement on equal treatment, in order to reach a judgment that does as much as possible justice to the fundamental interests of each of those parties. In this sense, my group believes that this construction has also worked well. The second objective cannot, by definition, be fully achieved, because the change in the definition that has been made earlier, the legislative proposal and later the law are already substantively in line with the directive and have now adopted the terminology of the directive by means of the rewrote provisions. The CDA Group is in favour of legislation that is in line with the European directive, but also fully. With this proposal this has been very imperfect and the result is also imperfect. The CDA Group therefore trusts that the government will take the next step and replace the closed and obsolete system of the General Law on equal treatment with an open system such as that of the Directive. It expects the government to take the necessary steps to properly implement the directive as required by European law. I'd like to hear the government's plans on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-eerstekamer-3.u3	Mr. Chairman. Equal treatment appears to be less equal in practice than expected. The current text of the General Law on Equal Treatment leads to uncertainty and differences of interpretation. There is a conflict of interest on this subject, which is extremely sensitive to both sides. It can lead to sharpening and caricatures of the views of others. I will defend a choice here today, but I will try to stay far away from incomprehension of those who defend another choice. At first, it seemed that many groups hesitated to ask for speaking time on this issue. Even now that the outcome of the vote is predictable, it is good that we are holding the debate on this. It is mainly about the reason for these differences of opinion, about the special Dutch circumstances they have made particularly important and about the way in which the support for the different opinions has shifted over the past decades. On the one hand, it is about the equality of people. That's a subject that always comes first for my party, the SP. It is not appropriate to unduly restrict the personal freedom of staff and users of institutions, especially in their private lives. On the other hand, it is about the freedom of groups who want to protect a world of thought from what they could ever regard as "own" institutions with a "own identity." Some institutions built up during the period of the column are now more important to many more people than what is left of their own pillar. If directors and executives have a negative opinion of homosexuality and of unmarried cohabitation, they may prefer to keep the people involved outside their institution or at least make them as invisible as possible within it. Do the initiators agree with me that differences of opinion will continue to exist even after the change of law, but that the outcome of such conflicts will be different from now on? I belong to that part of the current 70-plus generation that always wanted to be tolerant of people who were involved in sexual diversity. We weren't because we could move well into their world, but because we didn't see any reason to put those people at a disadvantage. I remember that for people's representatives, the existence of homosexuality was a topic you didn't talk about and you didn't interfere with. The dominant thought was that a non-gay should not stand up for gays, that a politician who does is one himself and that gays should be excluded from politics. As a serious politician, you had to stay out of it anxiously, if only because every attention you paid to it raised the suspicion that you yourself might have something to do with this highly unwanted phenomenon. I myself have broken through this taboo of politicians at an early stage. About 40 years ago, the news in Amsterdam was that the police had bludgeoned the visitors of a café, because it had been discovered that men danced with men there. I also found the behaviour of those café visitors rather strange and incomprehensible, but I found it at least so strange and incomprehensible that the police wasted their attention on it and even reacted violently to it. As a city councilman, I asked the mayor to put an end to this police action. I remember that the chairman of another left-wing council group, one of my coalition partners, reacted to my actions with incomprehension. He cried stunnedly, "Are you one of them?" Such an incident shows that in public opinion the standards of today's objectors were most strongly supported by this initiative proposal for a long time, even in an increasingly secularised society. This would probably still be the case if the disadvantaged had not organised themselves and did not call for public attention to be paid to their disadvantages. Instead of hiding any longer, they demanded equal treatment. It was only when it appeared that their group was much larger than they themselves and others had previously thought and that they were treated much worse than we were aware. People's representatives were forced to pay serious attention to this at last. This has enabled remarkable changes to take place. At that time, virtually no one had the idea that within a few decades marriages between people of the same sex would become legally possible and that we would recognise the gender change of persons. We also thought that two people living together of different sexes would continue to take it for granted to have their association confirmed by a civil marriage and often also a church marriage. Unwed living together is now much more self-evident than it was half a century ago. All this, of course, clashes with the idea that people are not supposed to live like this, because our Creator meant otherwise. The following standard is that two persons of different genders produce children together in a lasting relationship and that there should be no room for any deviation from it. As the ultimate consequence of that view, anyone who unfortunately has homosexual feelings must have the discipline to do nothing with it. Others make the nuance that it is an imperfection in creation. Because it is part of creation with it, the people who apply it are not to blame at all and there is little reason to impose their limitations. The discussion about this varies from one church to another or leads to internal divisions within it. We don't only see that in the Netherlands. The Anglican Church in England makes the international news through the changes that are taking place within it. In the interior we recently saw a recruitment of the remonstrants that is partly aimed at people who feel rejected by other churches because of their deviating standard of living. But all this is mainly an internal church process. In the Netherlands, it is much more than just the internal side. Do the initiators agree that the proposed legislative amendment would be less urgent if it only affected small, homogeneous, highly convinced groups of people within church societies and the organizations most closely associated with it? It seems to me that the need to interfere as a government would be rather small if schools, hospitals and retirement homes with a pronounced Christian, Jewish or Islamic identity together constitute an exception. Then it would be about the freedom of organisations to set strict standards for their own supporters and to completely exclude those who do not want to or cannot comply with them. Most of the outside world will have little interest in this or feel that such conflicts should be resolved within its own circle. Then, by the way, a tragedy may arise for young people who have grown up within this religious environment, who have no need to break with it, but who discover themselves to have homosexual feelings, which means that they can no longer meet the interpretation of standards in the Bible or the Qur'an followed by their group. It is right that the national umbrella organisation of the Christian LBT organisations, which is in favour of this change of law, should draw attention to this. The attention paid to the actions of management and management is much greater if institutions with a religious background manage a significant part of the general services aimed at a much wider public. That is precisely the case in the Netherlands and in our neighbour Belgium, much more so than in most other European countries. In many countries, general state education prevails, but it is tolerated, without real equivalence, that religious critters, if they wish, organise something for their own circle. In the Netherlands, on the other hand, there is a tradition that a large part of the schools, hospitals, old people's services and other care institutions are not managed by the Empire, the Province, municipalities or generally neutral institutions, but are made up of organisations that feel connected to one or more church societies. This is a merit of these organisations, but it also affects a much larger part of society than just its own circle. The standards of these influential institutions clash with the diversity of society as a whole. Since the school pact of 1917, we have made a distinction between public education and special education. Do the initiators agree that this distinction has been largely overtaken by a different development, which is more about the choice between "generally accessible" and "decided"? Today many parents can send children to the nearest school or to the school of which the best quality is expected. Whether that school of origin is public, Protestant-Christian or Roman-Catholic, matters less and less. Most schools like to have pupils from outside the traditional own group, sometimes with the exception of pupils who are dealing with learning disadvantages in relation to a non-Dutch culture at home. The staff of these schools also has many different minds and more or less 'waste'. In fact, all these schools form a new category of "general access" even though they are largely governed by government which is not general. The price of the legal and financial equivalence of special education to public education is that society as a whole will make use of these special facilities and therefore claim control over them. In addition, we see a smaller group of schools that would prefer to be and remain "decided" because they are only focused on a limited, fixed support. This concerns mainly orthodox-prostant schools, Jewish schools, Hindu schools and Islamic schools. There, there is the greatest support for the desire to refuse everyone as a member of staff or as a user who does not belong to their own group or who does not fully meet the standards within their own group. Almost no one outside who wants to be or send her children to such schools, which aim to spread and protect the most pronounced views within their own organized group. Some of the pupils in these schools live far away and travel long daily. Those schools were never meant to be a universally accessible facility for the local residents. How such a school can be decided, turned out when a few years ago the judge was called in, because a child belonging to a family belonging to the Liberal Jewish Church was refused as a pupil of a Jewish school. This school has always wanted to confine itself to children from families belonging to the Dutch-Israeli Church Society. In such schools, society as a whole is much less interested, as long as they meet the legally required quality of education and the protection of their pupils. It is precisely in the extensive category of universally accessible facilities with a confessional administration that clashes arise over the degradation of equal treatment. This sometimes has a profound impact on the civil liberties of users and staff. This initiative proposal prepared since 2010 from two government parties and three opposition parties, including mine, is urgently needed to correct this. Finally, I would like to ask the Minister for the Interior what date this legislative amendment will come into force.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-eerstekamer-3.u4	It is an interesting treatise on the difference between "special" and "public" schools and "decided" and "generally accessible." It is just not quite clear to me what Mr Meijer is trying to say. Is he trying to say that the drafting of this bill does not apply to those private schools? I'll read the bill differently. So what is the relevance of Mr Meijer's statement on this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-eerstekamer-3.u5	The problem also arises in this 'decided' group, and I have already indicated what distressing situations this may lead to. However, I believe that the public interest in this and the broad public support is also influenced by the fact that a very large proportion of the education sector in particular is also in the hands of organisations that have a "silvered" background in some other sectors. As a result, they are trying to impose their standards on those who feel much less bound to them. I think that distinction is relevant as a reason for the fact that this is a topical issue in the Netherlands, which should have been resolved much earlier. If it had been more limited, that broad social support to change it would also have been much more limited. In this sense, I think it is relevant, as can the way in which we deal with the various institutions. However, Mrs De Boer is right to point out that the problem also affects that group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-eerstekamer-3.u6	Exactly. So there is no difference in principle.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-eerstekamer-3.u7	There is no difference in principle, but the environment is different. This also differs the "climate" in which such a thing can happen and whether or not it will lead to collisions and annoyances.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-eerstekamer-3.u8	Mr. Chairman. On the initiative of GroenLinks, the pink ballot box agreement was concluded for the 2012 Dutch Parliamentary Elections. A large number of parties then agreed to settle a number of issues related to homosexuality: elimination of the refusal of official phenomenon; mandatory information on alcohol content at school; improving the legal position of lesbian parents and their children; simple recognition of the gender identity of transgenders; abolition of the single-fact structure which allows for the open expulsion of homosexual pupils and teachers. Both the government and a number of parties in the Lower House, and in particular the parties we see today behind the government table, have been working in recent years to implement the pink ballot box agreement. And successfully, because if this bill is also passed, the whole agreement has been implemented. It is clear that GroenLinks, as initiator of the agreement, is very pleased with this. I would therefore like to begin by expressing our thanks to all the members of the House of Representatives and government who have contributed to this; of course those who are here today, but also those who have worked hard to achieve the other points. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance fully supports the abolition of the single-fact structure. This exception to the prohibition of discrimination has always been a thorn in our eyes and, as far as we are concerned, it is only logical to abolish it. The single fact-finding structure now enshrined in our General Law on equal treatment allows institutions to distinguish on a philosophical, religious or political basis, provided that this does not lead to discrimination on the basis of the "single fact" of race, sex, nationality, heterosexual or homosexual orientation or civil status. Although the legal structure does not only cover discrimination against homosexuals, that has always been the tricky point. The construction is mainly designed to give special schools room to restrict the extent to which their staff practice and exude their homosexuality. The construction has always been explained as: you may be gay, but you may not be gay. As far as we are concerned, this is an impossible and inhuman distinction. This is about the identity of people. A non-discrimination ban which prohibits discrimination but allows discrimination against people when they behave in accordance with their identity is not a real prohibition of discrimination. We cannot ask people to deny their identity, to keep their love secret and to stay in the closet. And that is what the single-fact structure leads to now, as is shown by the letters we received from both the COC and Christian lhbt organisations. For all the doing that is more than just being gay can be interpreted as an additional circumstance that can justify the making of distinction. With the abolition of the single-fact structure, equal treatment legislation becomes much clearer. Institutions and schools on a philosophical, religious or political basis may, on those grounds alone, make a distinction between belief, religion and political belief in so far as these characteristics constitute an essential, legitimate and justified requirement. For the rest, all discrimination is prohibited. Moreover, the distinction on the basis of religion, philosophy or political belief is not permitted if this leads to distinction on another ground mentioned in the law. Distinction on the basis of religion, belief or political belief is therefore not permitted under any circumstances where this leads to discrimination on the grounds of race, sex, nationality, heterosexual or homosexual orientation or bourgeois status. This means that schools, like other philosophical or political institutions, can no longer refuse or dismiss homosexual pupils and teachers because they are not only gay, but also gay: have a relationship and are open about their homosexuality. Taking your partner to an activity with partners, coming out of school or giving you an opinion on acceptance of lhbt's, participating in a gay pride, being a member of a Christian lhbt organization or the COC, having a talk about homosexuality or setting up a gay-straight alliance: all these things are part of shaping your sexual orientation and should no longer be a reason for dismissal, sending away or refusing. Abolition of the single-fact structure also means that schools and institutions should not refuse or fire people if they live unmarriedly together within a heterosexual relationship, even if the school considers this contrary to their conception of life. This gives rise to discrimination on the grounds of civil status. And it also means, for example, that political parties should not distinguish by gender, even though their belief is that the exercise of public or political functions is reserved for men. And now that I am talking about gender discrimination, I note that discrimination based on sex includes discrimination based on transsexuality. The College of Human Rights has held in several cases that discrimination against transgenders creates prohibited gender discrimination, for example in a case in which the COA refused to offer an employee a contract extension after indicating that it wanted to continue as a woman. Translated into the current bill, this means that special schools and philosophical or political institutions will also have to accept that employees or students want to go through life as someone of the opposite sex. They may, if necessary and legitimate, distinguish on the basis of the faith, belief or political belief of a transgender, but this should not lead to discrimination on the grounds that someone is transgender and/or as such. The current single-fact construction has led to a lot of uncertainty and uncertainty. For the people concerned, it is very important that there is clarity as to what the abolition of the single-fact structure implies, in particular with regard to sexual orientation. Parliamentary treatment can contribute to this clarity, and for this reason I ask the proposers to state once again what will change in practice in this legislative proposal, especially for homosexual teachers and pupils in Christian schools: what aspects of being gay and doing gay could rather justify the making of distinction as an additional circumstance, and could not do so later? For the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, this bill represents an important step towards achieving equal rights for all in the Netherlands, regardless of gender, gender, sexual orientation or marital status. It is clear that the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance will wholeheartedly support this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-eerstekamer-3.u9	Madam President. Today we are talking about canceling what is called the singlefact construction in the General Law on Equal Treatment (AWGB). The preparation and completion of an initiative proposal is certainly not an easy task. That is all the more true when it comes to the kind of sensitive matter as in the present case. As far as I am concerned, all the initiators, present and former, deserve a great compliment. Today we must try to take the last hurdle. The background to this initiative proposal is the sometimes severe clash between two fundamental rights which may occur under certain circumstances. On the one hand, it concerns the prohibition of discrimination and the right to respect for privacy. On the other hand, freedom of religion, association and education are at stake. In situations where fundamental rights as enshrined in the Constitution clash, the legislator has no choice but to create clarity. It is normal for new social developments to be taken into account. Not to do that would eventually lead to an undesirable form of rigidity. It is true that the proposal, the opinion of the Council of State and the response to the many questions are contained in detailed legal jargon, but this is basically the essence of the proposal. When the Constitution was established in 1815 and even at the time of the 1983 amendments, religion was still a fairly unambiguous concept on which there was a fairly large social consensus in the Netherlands. Over the past 30 years, much has changed and in particular the congestion that characterised the Netherlands has been significantly reduced. In my group's view, this is a development in the desired direction. It is no secret that we are strongly in favour of secularism and laicism, with the strictest possible separation between church and state being pursued and, if possible, implemented. The clarity of the debate would also benefit from a final definition of the concept of religion. Because of the growing growth of new religions in our country and their growing demand for freedom of religion and freedom of education, our world has certainly not become clearer. The starting point in the AWGB is the prohibition of discrimination on a number of grounds laid down in the law. However, paragraph 3 contains exceptions to this prohibition for institutions and civil society organisations on a religious or other philosophical basis and on a political basis by allowing requirements arising from the basis and purpose of the institution concerned. These requirements should not discriminate on the basis of personal characteristics as such, the so-called single fact. However, there may be additional circumstances which may eventually lead to a permissible distinction. The aim of the legislative proposal is to remove this single-fact structure and thus to limit the possibility of distinguishing institutions based on religion and belief. My group supports this chosen solution for the possible clash between two fundamental rights. The debate often focuses on institutions based on religion or belief. On the basis of this basis, exceptions to the prohibition of discrimination are then invoked by imposing requirements for the purpose of the function to be performed. In some cases, institutions with such a basis may require that this basis be signed as a condition for appointment. In other cases, only respect for that basis can be chosen. There are a number of problems which have not been addressed in the written preparation of a basis in too strict a manner. First of all, the institution deliberately limits the pool from which candidates can be selected. This does not seem to be the preferred method to recruit the best quality candidates. This is particularly true of educational institutions, where one would hope that educational activities which are not directly related to religion should prevail. That this can lead to strange situations we can see at various schools on an Islamic basis. Too much focus on religion often jeopardises the education of other skills. This can, curiously enough, only be achieved by the educational inspection, which identifies a lack of quality in education in key subjects and takes action, even though the closure of the school in question is not excluded. Of course, it would be more logical to set limits on the amount of time and emphasis that may be devoted to religion. One may wonder whether, in such situations, freedom of religion and of education has not been overstretched. The broad interpretation of freedom of religion and of education can also have a profound impact on the content of education. Let us take a concrete example from practice, education in evolution theory. In a way that I cannot understand as a natural scientist and atheist, there seems to be a tension between religious views and scientifically verifiable facts. Before a scientific theory is widely accepted, an extensive process of review and validation takes place. Past observations must fit in with the theory, and predictions based on the theory must be made and then tested. Along this path, the available factual material grows together with the theoretical basis. In my opinion, one can no longer argue at this time that the earth was created in seven days, or that the theory of evolution is just an idea that one can easily think differently about. If that is the consequence of freedom of religion and education, we are causing serious damage to society as a whole. It is clear from the foregoing that it is clear to my group that limits must be placed on freedom of religion and education. Unfortunately, there are too many examples in the history of humanity where religious beliefs have frustrated and even blocked the developments of science. Unfortunately, the number of natural scientists avant la lettre who ended up at the stake is considerable. Although today's legislative proposal does not yet provide a solution to the problems that I put forward as examples, it should nevertheless be appreciated as a serious step towards a rational society. The proposal for an initiative has a broader scope than freedom of religion and education alone. This includes political parties and trade unions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-eerstekamer-3.u10	I cannot stop for a moment, after this vendetta that we have to listen to here about religion in the public domain and also in science. I would remind the honourable Member that science originated from a culture in which many believers contributed to research, because they saw that was important and interesting. Secondly, when he talks about theories, I would like to say that we must continue to talk about their status, namely the status of theories. They always have a certain perspective and a certain premise. If I were him, I'd take a lesson in science philosophy next to his science. Then he'll come out a little bit wider than where he's standing right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-eerstekamer-3.u11	Although this is not a question, I do have a tendency to deal with what Mr Kuiper says. Science philosophy is of course a fine thing, but there is still a very big difference between the approach to science and that of religion. In science, we try to place facts in theories, which should be testable. This also means that these theories make predictions which can then be re-examined. If the predictions of such a theory turn out to be true, that gives each and every one a little support for that theory. Religion seems to me to be a little bit different. There are also certain theories, but their testability is not very high. If there are predictions, then it is not easy in general to check those predictions. Of course, all this may be pleasant and pleasant, but these are the essential differences.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-eerstekamer-3.u12	Finally, Mr Kuiper.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-eerstekamer-3.u13	Do you know that scientists often turn out to be believers when it comes to those things that they can't prove and not test? Then there are even bigger stories, even in science, than just the facts and theories you mention. But let's leave it at that, because today I believe we are dealing with other matters.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-eerstekamer-3.u14	That's what I think, so let me try to take the lead again. The proposal for an initiative has a broader scope than freedom of religion and education alone. This includes political parties and trade unions. For example, the appointment of a member of staff to a political party could require the acceptance of the party's ideas. Here the Advisory Section of the Council of State comes up with a very curious example, namely the position of director of the Scientific Bureau of a Party. An agency that actually deserves the name "scientific" can only fulfil that position under the guidance of independent thinking minds. A scientific agency which is no more than an extension of the party leadership does not deserve a financial contribution from the taxpayer. I believe that in many political parties slavish obedience is a much greater problem than intellectual independence. Back to the initiative proposal and the clash between fundamental rights. Although a step in the right direction, much remains to be desired. The Constitution was established in other times, under totally different social, economic and political conditions. It is therefore highly questionable to what extent the Constitution is still adapted to our current circumstances in important respects. On the other hand, it is an important function of the Constitution to provide security and stability. In this sense, it is a good thing that the Constitution cannot be changed immediately in every social upsurge. It is right that considerable barriers have been created to this end. The bill tries to sail through the various cliffs. Where between the rules can be tasted that we actually want much more, we have nevertheless opted for an approach that is still intact in the Constitution, but we are trying to move the balance between fundamental rights in a direction that is more socially of this time. This should be supported, despite the fact that, even after the adoption of this initiative proposal, the conflict will remain high. The political handiwork is thus far from complete. Maybe that's a good thing. I await the reaction of the initiators and the minister with more than ordinary interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-eerstekamer-3.u15	Mr. Chairman. Let me begin by congratulating the initiators on the work they have done so far. They and their predecessors, Van der Ham, Van Miltenburg, Klijnsma and Van Ghent, have now managed to bring the proposal, which was conceived almost five years ago, to this Chamber and, I believe, they can carefully look forward, from the written exchange of views, to a presumably successful outcome, provided that they manage to achieve the defence of this Chamber today to the satisfaction of this Chamber. That'll bring their wages to work. After all, legislation is monks' work. With this expression, of course, I do not intend to make any unjustified distinction on any basis whatsoever. Since its introduction in 1994, the General Law on Equal Treatment contains the singlefact structure. That construction was the result of the wisdom of the legislator 20 years ago and was also called "a political compromise." The initiators have seen reason to question this construction now, so many years later. They point to the recent European regulations which seem to conflict with this construction and to the fundamental objection that the single-fact structure allows institutions on a religious, philosophical or political basis that so-called additional circumstances which in themselves are not sufficient for labour law action, in conjunction with the single fact of one's sexual orientation or bourgeois state, nevertheless lead to non-appointment or dismissal. They also point out that this possibility contained in the current legislation has led to a great deal of uncertainty and legal uncertainty, although this has not led to many legal proceedings in the last 20 years. All legislation must be reviewed and assessed against the background of its time. After all, no law created by man's hands has been written for eternity. Although my party also expressed reservations about the single-fact structure in 1994 when the law was drawn up, it was possible, in view of the social climate and the social relations of the past and the state of the debate on non-discrimination and other fundamental rights, that it could still be accepted with a great deal of goodwill. The gap between the "tolerance thinking" of a large part of the Dutch population and most political parties on the one hand and the ideas within certain groups of Christian Church societies and communities on the other was particularly great at that time. The single-fact structure could perhaps be seen as a bridge to bridge or bridge the gap when the General Law was drawn up. In a reading-worthy article on his website, our colleague Ganzevoort, not from my group, but very much appreciated, who is Professor of Theology of Professionals, pointed out a few years ago that in recent decades thinking about homosexuality and marriage in Christian circles has shifted in certain respects and has become less unambiguous, thus also the gap I mentioned in the early 1990s seems to have become less broad and deep. In general too, over the last 20 years, a wider and more pervasive climate of equality in society appears to have emerged, which has also been reflected in legislation. I refer to the marriage of same-sex people and the discussion that has now been decided on the conclusion of marriages by civil servants. Therefore, the considerations at the time seem to have become less relevant. In short, the wisdom of the legislator of that time is no longer the wisdom of today's legislator. It can be argued that there have been few or no procedures on this compromise construction, but it cannot be denied that from the outset the "single fact logic" has been highly critical and has raised a great deal of social resistance. From the outset, the discussions focused mainly on homosexual teachers in particular education. There is no denying that, on the basis of this construction, homosexuals and lesbians were at greater risk than heterosexuals of not being hired or dismissed on the basis of circumstances which cannot in themselves constitute grounds for labour law sanctions. In 2015, therefore, there is no justification whatsoever, if it could already be constructed, to allow this form of a potentially unjustified distinction to continue. My group therefore welcomes this bill. The initiators have shown reasonably convincingly that the European directive on equal treatment in employment and occupation also requires legal action. The Directive provides that exceptions to the principle of non-discrimination must be interpreted strictly. In its present form, the General Law on Equal Treatment does not clearly indicate the limits of exceptions which consider a difference in treatment based on religion or belief to be non-discrimination in circumstances. Firstly, the current law allows discrimination on grounds other than religion or belief. Secondly, the so-called double test required by EU law in the context of legitimacy and proportionality is not clearly reflected in the AWGB. The Netherlands has therefore rightly been criticised for the current construction by the Council of Europe, the European Commission and the College of Human Rights. The legislative framework is made clearer by the formulation of the initiative proposal. I also agree with the initiators that the alternative wording used by the Council of State in 2009 "good faith and loyalty needed to achieve the foundation of the institution" was less in line with the European directive and, moreover, a certain margin in itself which could give rise to new uncertainty and uncertainty. The initiators themselves chose the wording "which is appropriate, given the attitude of good faith and loyalty to the foundation of the institution." In any case, this wording is more in line with the directive. However, my group was not terribly impressed by the explanation given by the initiators that they see the term 'good faith and loyalty' as 'a tautology with a meaning which is part of the concept of good employeeship'. Can the initiators explain again why, precisely for this reason, they did not choose to leave the concept of "good employment" alone and to leave out the phrase "what is appropriate, given the attitude of good faith and loyalty to the foundation of the institution"? Apart from that, if "good faith and loyalty" is a tautology, why do we include it in the law? One could argue that it might be read that loyalty is something other than good faith and that it would then raise a new question that is difficult to answer before the courts. So aren't the initiators expecting an attitude of good faith and loyalty to be explained more widely than just good employeeship? My group would therefore be reluctant to do so. As I said, there is therefore no room in the Netherlands in 2015 for unjustified discrimination on grounds of race, nationality, sex, heterosexual or homosexual orientation and bourgeois status in respect of workers and those who wish to participate in education, even in the context of the discrimination based on religion, belief or political orientation under the General Law, which can be justified in itself. The argument that this is not a common problem, to the extent that it is already an argument, is not affected by the fact that the single-fact structure can be detrimental to population groups and can lead to exclusion, tensions, the forced embezzlement of one's own identity, don't ask, don't tell, and the imitation of one's sexual orientation. So I come to the conclusion that the single-fact structure is too far-reaching a breach of the principle of equal treatment and that a general law on equal treatment without that construction does more justice to today's society and to the times in which we live. Does this affect the fundamental rights at stake of equal treatment on the one hand and religious freedom, freedom of association and freedom of education on the other, as a single group here seems to think during the written procedure? Not at all, I guess. There is at most a new balance sheet. Fundamental rights do not have a formal order of precedence in our constitution and are therefore ancillary; I repeat that to Mrs Van Bijsterveld. The government explicitly confirmed this earlier, in 2004. I remember that pretty well. For the possible clash of these fundamental rights, the legislator can give conflict of laws rules and that is what has been done in the General Law on equal treatment and in this bill. Moreover, in individual cases, the court will have to consider the fundamental rights at issue in the light of the legal provisions and the factual circumstances. That is how it is regulated in our rule of law, and that is a good thing. The D66 Group is not otherwise expected to be positive in relation to the present initiative proposal, but, of course, await with interest the answers of the initiators.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-eerstekamer-3.u16	Mr. Chairman. We are now being presented with an initiative law which, should it be adopted, looks like it will create new relations between fundamental rights in our Constitution. This law is therefore of constitutional importance. If we had a Constitutional Court for which my party is in favour, the issues raised here could be referred to it. Now they're being presented to this Chamber. The issues which the draft law seeks to regulate and which, according to the authors, justify this view of the Constitution must be of great importance. Is that right? In the Netherlands it is not allowed to distinguish on the basis of personal characteristics, such as race, sex and sexual orientation. That "single fact" should not be grounds for rejection or discrimination, according to the law; however, additional circumstances can be taken into account. The authors of the amending law do not disagree with this, but they do not want private behaviour to be taken into account, for example when a teacher is appointed in particular in education. But behaviour in the private sphere is always taken into account, see the discussions on the role and integrity of political representatives and, for example, on police officers who are expected to behave in a manner appropriate to their duties outside working time. This also applies to teachers who are considered to promote a certain pattern of norms and values. Practice what you preach, we say. The proposers seem to think this goes too far, too far. They have a number of cases at hand, a limited number, almost exclusively related to the homosexual teacher at a special school. They believe that in order to do so, we should change the AWGB and strengthen constitutional relations to the detriment of the freedom of education, association and religion and to the benefit of the individual who might feel disadvantaged because some schools impose recruitment requirements on their staff, who affect behaviour in the private sphere.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-eerstekamer-3.u17	Mr Kuiper uses a wording which gives me an interest, namely that constitutional relations are strengthened. Could Mr Kuiper explain that further? Does he refer to the relationship between fundamental rights in the Constitution?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-eerstekamer-3.u18	My speech is actually all about that. I'll explain it to you later. Would it be okay if I continued my speech and answered you with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-eerstekamer-3.u19	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-eerstekamer-3.u20	The Constitution is there for all of us. It protects people who may differ greatly in faith, opinion and lifestyle. That is the great good of the Constitution. The Constitution must not become an instrument whereby freedom of compulsion for others. That is why the handling of the Constitution listens so closely. As a country of minorities, in which we have learned to give each other space and live together in relative harmony, we also have experience of this. That is why we should be wary of violations of the Constitution and the freedoms enshrined therein in this proposal for an initiative. There have been no less than four signals around this bill which should each be a reason for extra vigilance. Firstly, there is the much discussed balance between fundamental rights. This means that not one of the fundamental rights takes precedence over others. Mr De Graaf himself wrote about this in the 2004 note. This was also confirmed in 1994, when the General Law on Equal Treatment was in place. The principle of equality is therefore not above the freedom of education, association and religion, but is of equal value. By calling it a fundamental right, we recognize its intrinsic meaning. The respect that is demanded of us for equal treatment is also demanded of us when it comes to freedom of religion. Characteristic of the thinking of the initiators is that they imagine the balance as a balance. This is stated in the explanatory statement, even after the amendment following the opinion of the Council of State. It says that the initiators present themselves as a balance, with freedom of religion and education on the one hand and the right to equal treatment on the other. They think that balance here is about balance and that a little more of one can be at the expense of the other. This is quantitative thinking, while qualitative thinking is required here. There is a demand here, and that is constitutional thinking to fully recognise the freedom of religion and education, including views on faith. Now the authors say that this will inevitably lead to a clash of fundamental rights. I now argue that the initiative-legislators themselves accept that there is a shift between fundamental rights. Now the authors say that the balance could lead to a clash between these fundamental rights. That's true, but it's dangerous to anticipate that. The legislator should not anticipate this at all. That is, in principle, incorrect. Apart from the fact that we do not have to decide too quickly that there is a clash of fundamental rights, so many cases of which we do not have in this case a dispute settlement belongs to the courts. There is that course of justice, which is also being used and which shows that we do not have many cases that end up there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-eerstekamer-3.u21	I would like to thank Mr Kuiper for this speech, but he does raise the question as to whether everything he says about the current legislative proposal does not apply to a much greater extent to the single-fact construction itself. It violates fundamental rights more than the current weakening of that single-fact structure. Perhaps Mr Kuiper can comment on that. The single fact-finding structure is an order of fundamental rights, namely, this must not be allowed to happen on the mere fact of the matter. Isn't it true that this single fact-building is limiting and that this bill weakens that containment?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-eerstekamer-3.u22	Yes. Between fundamental rights, it can sand on several levels. We're talking about one of those planes today. Nevertheless, as legislators, we are being asked to give the full pound to all fundamental rights, as we are defending the Constitution in conviction. Now it is possible to make connections in concrete legislation and the single fact-building is such a thing. This brings the principle of equality within the framework of freedom of association or of education. The mere fact of race, sex or nationality must not constitute grounds for discrimination. Thus the relationship is regulated, only the single fact structure necessarily coincides with the additional circumstances.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-eerstekamer-3.u23	This is a nice presentation of things, but I believe that the single-fact structure is not intended to bring equality rights within the rights of freedom, but to limit their effect, precisely by using the term'single fact', which extends the further effect. I do not want to repeat the whole parliamentary debate on the single-fact structure, but as I see it, the single-fact structure is precisely the restriction of fundamental rights and this proposal is a weakening of that limitation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-eerstekamer-3.u24	That's right. I believe that the meaning is that the mere fact of one's sexual orientation, nationality, race or sex should not in any way constitute a basis for discrimination, even in the case of appointments in particular education. In fact, it is already too much about this case, but I am sure that this is a matter of caution when it comes to appointment policy as well. That fact cannot therefore justify rejection. This reflects the principle of equality within the framework of freedom of association and education. At least that's how I see it. This was my first point, the fundamental rights balance, which the initiators themselves are talking about. I come to this because this is how it is to be found in the pieces.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-eerstekamer-3.u25	I am very curious not only about the ideas of the initiators, but also about those of Mr Kuiper himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-eerstekamer-3.u26	I already gave it to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-eerstekamer-3.u27	Yeah, but I'm just trying to get a little more clarity on that. You mentioned an infringement of the Constitution. I thought that was rather harsh words. In the end, however, I get that impression from your text, which concerns the question of whether the legislator is wise to develop a fundamental right in legislation and then to regulate the relationship with other fundamental rights. So you really do not object to this initiative proposal so much as to the fact that we have a general law on equal treatment. It takes non-discrimination as a starting point and only then will it be considered whether it can be linked to other fundamental rights. In your view, is it fundamentally incorrect for the legislator to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-eerstekamer-3.u28	That's a lot of questions. What I would like to point out is that this amendment would not have been necessary for my group. With this, I take a position that is related to what the CDA has expressed. After all, there is an arrangement and a course of law is possible. The question is therefore whether it is necessary for the legislator to act here. That is why my text states that it is a question of whether it is necessary or correct for us to be here as legislators at the moment. My opinion on this has often been confirmed in our country, including by you and in parliamentary debates. That view is that the fundamental rights we know in the Constitution are of equal value and that they must be respected equally. The drafting of legislation can, of course, lead to all kinds of figures, but that is where our starting point lies. And that point of departure is now torn apart.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-eerstekamer-3.u29	I would like to make one final point in this connection. If Mr Kuiper accepts, on the head of the case, that secondary fundamental rights can be put together by the legislator in specific cases, whether they are public events, demonstration freedom or equal treatment, then it is not, in principle, incorrect and also not an infringement of the Constitution if an initiative proposal adapts an existing regime to a relatively technical point of its own in order to serve legal certainty. Then I do not understand where those big words of violation of the Constitution come from.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-eerstekamer-3.u30	I share your view that the legislator explains the Constitution. If the legislator is now explaining the Constitution in a way that affects the relationship between fundamental rights, I will give you other examples. We are talking about how we understand the Constitution and the relationship between fundamental rights and how we are about to see the freedom of education. I think that is very big things that come from a small technical legislative amendment. However, I am not bringing it up; the documents we have received are full of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-eerstekamer-3.u31	Mr Kuiper was just wondering whether it was necessary to act as legislator here. I assume that you are acting as legislators to deal with social abuses and things that need to be improved through legislation. The umbrella organisation of the Christian lhbt organizations says that the bill, if passed, can put an end to these intolerable tensions for teachers and students in religious education. Could the unbearable tension mentioned by the umbrella organisation not be such as to call for action by the legislator?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-eerstekamer-3.u32	I haven't taken notice of that letter yet. I think he just got in. What is said here, of course, I take it seriously, but I still have to weigh it up against the fact that school boards, in particular, deal with this extremely prudently. They have been through their own process over the last 20 years and have learned to take steps. On the other hand, relatively few cases have been brought to the attention of the Commission. What I stand for is the freedom of own consideration by management and competent authority. That space will be gone soon, but I do not have the impression that it is being horribly abused or used to maintain major abuses.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-eerstekamer-3.u33	I would like to point out to Mr Kuiper that in most cases school boards, including Christian schools, act very carefully. What matters is that you will depend on the careful treatment of the school boards. The board of another school can do it differently, which can lead to this unbearable tension among teachers. So it is not so much important that there have been few court cases and that school boards act carefully, but that they can act carelessly and, through the single-fact structure, cause tension to the teachers. That is the error and you could put an end to it through this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-eerstekamer-3.u34	Mr. Chairman. I will continue my speech. My first point was therefore about the relationship between fundamental rights. The second signal follows that and is about freedom of association. The legislative proposal infringes the independent balance between the competent authority of an organisation, association, school or association. Fundamental rights protect the freedom to make such considerations without interference from a government. They protect a state-free atmosphere. The Council of State described the infringement of this freedom of association as far as it was concerned. Let me make a comparison on this point. In the wake of the attacks in Paris, we are defending freedom of expression by hand and we do not want to be restricted. That's how we protect a fundamental right. Why do we not do that when it comes to freedom of association? A third signal concerns freedom of education and affects the provisions of Article 23 of the Constitution on freedom of direction. This freedom is also affected when this change of law can infringe the way in which an association or school wishes to shape that direction. This also affects the freedom of education. A fourth signal concerns whether the Constitution only protects individuals or groups. This bill seems to choose for the first. The principle of equality is now interpreted in such a way that individuals are protected. But the Constitution also protects groups and thereby protects the pluralism of society. We don't all have to be the same and make the same choices. The views and choices of one do not have to be those of the other, but let us not force each other to think equally or to be equal. This happens when the individual's freedom is established against any collective who, at appropriate points, feels differently about the views or behaviour of that individual. We know, of course, the considerations already made in the previous cabinet, partly on the European issue that was taking place. However, these considerations were designed to preserve equality between fundamental rights. The Council of State advised another route, as others have said. Why didn't the proposers seek advice from the Council of State once they had amended their bill? It is also important that we take this into account, as I said to my colleague Mr Koole on behalf of the Commission, that there is already a strong awareness of the sensitivity of issues in this area. It appears that this is already being handled very prudently in education. That is why, in my view, there are so few cases of equal treatment in the Commission. I do not think limiting schools' own discretion is helpful. Finally, I note this. To the language of the bill it becomes clear that this bill is aimed at certain beliefs. They are often referred to as orthodox or strict. Certainly that last qualification is not neutral. Is it true that the freedom of religion defends religious views, unless they are orthodox or strict? We have learned in this country in a long process to create room for other beliefs, beliefs that are not ours; so does the Constitution. Let us not restrict this area again with this type of legislation. We will continue this debate and now await the answers of the initiators.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-eerstekamer-3.u35	Madam President. We are talking today about the single fact-finding structure or, rather, about the cancellation of the single fact-finding structure in Articles 5, 6a and 7 of the General Law on equal treatment. The PVV is positive about canceling the singlefact construction. She therefore thanked the initiators for their initiative. This construction is in fact a hole in the law. In practice, the single-fact structure actually comes down to the following. Institutions on a religious, philosophical or political basis may not dismiss persons who work there and may not refuse persons who wish to work there on the sole grounds of, for example, sex, civil status or sexual orientation. This means that the persons concerned are clearly entitled to be dismissed or refused if there are so-called additional reasons. What these additional reasons may be is not described in the law. At the time of the establishment of the General Law on Equal Treatment in the 1990s, the single-fact structure and its potentially negative consequences were already called into question by politics and society. Reality shows that the single-fact structure offers uncertainties and uncertainties especially for homosexual men, bisexuals, lesbian women and so on. For example, can a homosexual teacher who applies for a job as a teacher in particular education, i.e. an institution on a religious basis, not be refused because of the mere fact that he so-called has an inappropriate orientation, but if there are apparently additional reasons? So can he be refused if, for example, he walks in public with his partner hand in hand, if he lives with his partner, or if he kisses his partner in public on the mouth? Is he allowed to be refused? In other words, may the teacher be gay, but can he not practice it? The General Law on Equal Treatment does not answer these questions. These are natural rhetorical questions, because the answer to them is, of course, no. The teacher in question should not be refused merely for the mere fact of his orientation, but of course not for additional reasons that are the logical consequence of his orientation. As has already been said, the present legislative proposal deletes the single fact-finding structure of the General Law on Equal Treatment. This makes it impossible to dismiss or refuse for additional reasons. That is fine, because discrimination on the grounds of sexual orientation is, and always remains, resentful and must always be avoided. Institutions on a religious, philosophical or political basis nevertheless retain the possibility to select their staff on the basis of their own bases. For example, the so-called secondary arrangement of fundamental rights remains intact; in this case, the right to equal treatment on the one hand and the freedom of education laid down in Article 23 on the other. Let us not forget that Article 23 is also of enormous value. Good education is of great importance, because education conveys our Western identity and our Western traditions of individual freedom and responsibility from generation to generation. Take the equality of men and women, of believers and non-believers and of gay and straight. It is all Western principles that are passed on in education. They are principles to be proud of; principles to be thriving. Freedom of education. Good education. And when I'm talking about "good education," of course I don't mean Islamic education. Of course. After all, Islam is at odds with our Western standards and values. We are discussing the equality of heterosexuals, homosexuals, lesbians and bisexuals here today. And if there is one ideology in which this equality does not apply, even more so: if there is one ideology in which homosexuality is punishable by the death penalty, I say to Mrs De Boer that is, indeed, Islam.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-eerstekamer-3.u36	I will say something about this once and ask a question. My point is that Islam is not an ideology but a religion. This bill aims to make it clear that institutions and schools on a religious basis, including institutions on an Islamic basis, must also respect the rights to equal treatment. Isn't that very important? Shouldn't we be talking about these institutions?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-eerstekamer-3.u37	I find it striking that Mrs De Boer stays behind when I make a speech about the single-fact structure, that she has nothing to say about it, and when it comes to Islam, Mrs De Boer jumps up to say something about it. You'll notice. Anyway, it's actually very simple. In Islam, homosexuality is the death penalty. We are talking about homosexuality and education. So it's impossible to have good Islamic education. In Islam, homosexuality is the death penalty and we should not teach it to our students. In Islamic education, discrimination against homosexuality is promoted. So it's pretty simple.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-eerstekamer-3.u38	I'm just thinking about what else I'm gonna say.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-eerstekamer-3.u39	You don't have to.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-eerstekamer-3.u40	No, it's okay. I stayed with the first part of your story, because for the most part I agreed. I understand that this is an issue for your political party, but I really do not understand how you can make a well-founded legal story, saying that what applies to one religion does not apply to the other religion. We will not get there, so I suggest that we do not have that discussion here. In my opinion, and I assume in the opinion of most people present here, it is right for Islam, as for other religions, that institutions that respect equal rights should be respected. That's what this bill contributes to.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-eerstekamer-3.u41	I am not surprised that Mr Kops involves Islam and the Islamic schools, because talking about it belongs to the identity of his party. So it would be amazing if he didn't pay attention to that. Here's what I'd like to ask him. He states that Islamic schools act predictablely. This means that he renounces the idea that even there the mind can move forward, as it has happened in a Christian and Jewish environment, and that one does not continue to defend thoughts about death penalty and exclusion, but that one starts to think about it more nuancedly. I think that in the Netherlands, too, many people who count themselves as Islam have become more nuanced over the years. By nailing them to an unchanging position, as it existed hundreds of years ago, Mr Kops merely promotes what he wants to fight. I would seriously advise him not to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-eerstekamer-3.u42	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-eerstekamer-3.u43	The question is...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-eerstekamer-3.u44	So no question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-eerstekamer-3.u45	It is a question, namely: is Mr Kops aware that he is forcing Islamists, Muslims, through this position, in a direction he himself wishes to fight? Would he not do much better to take the measures that will put an end to this position, which he loathes and I loathe with him? That's a much more fruitful way of changing things than just accusing people and nailing them to the past. I would ask Mr Kops to comment on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-eerstekamer-3.u46	Well, I'll read the Acts again. Maybe I'll understand. It's a woolly story. In any case, I do not understand the SP and I do not understand Mrs De Boer van GroenLinks either. We are talking about homosexuality and education, about discrimination against homosexuals. We agree that we must all combat this discrimination. And if there is one ideology in which homosexuality is punishable by death, that is Islam. So I cannot understand the parties in favour of Islamic education. If they say that discrimination against homosexuals must be countered, they contradict themselves. It's incomprehensible and unbelievable.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-eerstekamer-3.u47	Finally, Mr Meijer, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-eerstekamer-3.u48	Mr Kops is now using this as a reason not to allow Islamic education, while allowing education for other confessional directions. This is not entirely consistent on the basis of the freedom of education. I think that it only increases the problem, because once again he perseveres in the idea that Islam is unchanging in it, that there would be no different interpretations possible and that this should lead to what we all, together, Muslims and non-Muslims, Christians and Jews and non-Muslims, hate. Trying to avoid that now is my advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-eerstekamer-3.u49	Mr Meijer, I think your point is clear. I propose that Mr Kops continue his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-eerstekamer-3.u50	I'd say, of which I'm aware. But, yes, Mr Meijer is talking about the possibilities of interpretation of Islam. There is only one Islam: I am not having a theological discussion here, but a social discussion. I see that Islam is a very big problem in our Western society. All right, I'll continue my argument. No one should be surprised that in Islamic circles, in Islamic schools, I'm going to go about it by taking on homosexuality is a different story. The report The acceptance of homosexuality by ethnic and religious groups in the Netherlands of the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau of November last year states: "In 2005 Turkish and Moroccan Dutch in particular had a problem with an LHB teacher(e)." The report also states: "In particular, Turkish and Moroccan students think negatively about homosexuality. (...) Also, more than a third (of them) indicate having problems with a homosexual teacher(e). In secondary education, the attitudes of "other" non-Western migrants (on the other hand) are relatively positive." In this context, I have, in conclusion, a question to the initiators of the present legislative proposal. Discrimination based on sexual orientation is reprehensible and should be countered. We agree on that. The bill relates in particular to the homosexual teacher. So we're talking about homosexuality and education. How can you, on the one hand, want to combat discrimination against homosexuals and, on the other hand, are in favour, at least, of not being an opponent of Islamic education, where, entirely according to the Islamic scriptures, discrimination against homosexuals is being promoted? How do the initiators see this and what are they going to do about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-eerstekamer-3.u51	Mr. Chairman. The General Law on Equal Treatment, or the AWGB, containing the single fact-finding structure, was not at the time a happy find that I would still like to idealize. In this respect, our views are in line with those of the initiators. However, I do not consider the amendments they seek to make to their proposal to be ideal either. However, I would like to acknowledge that the proposal now before us is an improvement on the proposal originally submitted to the House of Representatives. I will give you some examples of this later. Nevertheless, my view is that the proposal is still strongly influenced by the original thinking behind it. Let me give some examples of this too. Firstly, the individualistic approach to fundamental rights. The liberal emphasis on the individual, which our legislation is aware of and on which the commitment to human rights goes back, has at least difficulty with the fact that each individual is also part of broader identity-forming links. Even anyone who wants to position himself against or emancipate any community will have to acknowledge that he is also determined by the collective to which he wishes to escape. So we are all, one more aware than the other, included in collective communities, whether they are politically legal in nature, expressed in a passport or membership papers, or are primarily a 'imagined community'. That is why we have a sense of collective responsibility. The fundamental rights also want to honour this awareness and the role of citizens and their private organisations in this respect. The second principle, which has remained valid in what has been weakened, is the shift in the balance between freedom and equality. On balance, the margins of freedom are limited. It is about freedom of religion and belief and freedom of education and assembly, and I consciously focus on the way these freedoms are guaranteed in our national Constitution. The most exclusive and far-reaching guarantee and space in this respect offers the freedom of education. It seems undeniable that these fundamental rights should not only be fulfilled from the relative autonomy of the individual, but also from the relative autonomy of the institution or organisation concerned, or the institutional aspect of these freedoms. The limitation of the scope of the proposal lies in the fact that recourse to the exception provided for in Article 5 (2) of the AWGB will no longer be possible, even if it is possible that a permitted distinction based on religion may also give rise to an indirect distinction based on race, sex or sexual orientation. I assume that the initiators can agree with me on this point. Although the initiators argue in the reply that neither the current AWGB nor the legislative proposal place the principle of equality above other fundamental rights. The AWGB elaborates on the principle of equality in Article 1 of the Constitution, but also makes exceptions to it. The question, however, is how far one can and may go with the subsequent limitation of those exceptions. In other words, how long can one continue to pull hair out of a ponytail so that it remains a ponytail? In this context, I also note a tension with constitutional educational freedom. The clarification of the proposal, which seeks to clarify the reasons for and the need for it, makes it clear that the focus of the proposal is on special education and homosexuality. However, as far as I am concerned with the competitive values of freedom and equality is concerned, it is clear that, despite exalted speeches about tolerance and moving pleas in favour of pluralism and multi-religiousism, diversity is once again being surrendered. The scope for diversity provided by Articles 6, 8 and 23 of the Constitution is restricted in favour of the prohibition of discrimination and the individual's right to respect for privacy. In particular, with regard to the freedom of education, particularly as regards the freedom of appointment of teachers, a fundamental aspect of this freedom, namely freedom of direction, is at stake. My view is that the changes proposed by the initiators would require a constitutional change on this point. That would then be the right way forward; in other words, I believe that the proposal is at odds with our Constitution when it comes to freedom of education. I do not think that the argument for the position that the proposal is not contrary to the Constitution is sufficient, at least not convincing. This is all the more true now that the need for limitation has not been demonstrated by problems that have arisen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-eerstekamer-3.u52	Is Mr Holdijk's view that the underlying proposal cannot actually be regulated by law but should not be regulated in the Constitution also for the entire Equal Treatment Act? Is his argument of violations of certain fundamental rights not the same as it is about the whole Equal Treatment Act? So, in his opinion, is that actually an unconstitutional law?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-eerstekamer-3.u53	I would not argue the latter. I did not argue that either because I made it very clear that I regard the AWGB as an elaboration of Article 1 of our Constitution. It is only when a proposal has an effect that affects freedom of education that the question has to be asked and answered whether this still fits within the current wording of our constitutional freedom of education. It could therefore be that an adjustment of the AWGB, for example the adjustment we are talking about, would also require a prior adjustment of Article 23 of the national Constitution. That is what I wanted to argue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-eerstekamer-3.u54	I understood that; thank you for that explanation, but also the General Law on equal treatment as it still stands means a conflict of laws rule, a relationship rule, between the principle of non-discrimination, the right to equal treatment on the one hand and the right to freedom of education on the other. That is also settled by the ordinary judge. This means a certain limitation of the different rights. You are talking about restricting the freedom of education, religious freedom and other freedoms through the right to equal treatment. You could say exactly the opposite, namely that the current law, and also the initiative proposal, restricts the right to equal treatment by allowing exceptions because of other fundamental rights. Hence my question again. If that were the case in the current Equal Treatment Act, would you therefore believe that the current Equal Treatment Act required a constitutional revision?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-eerstekamer-3.u55	That is, of course, a matter of consideration, if I may say so, Mr President. Mr De Graaf is right to say that this General Law on Equal Treatment constitutes a balancing of Article 1 of our Constitution and Articles 6, 8, 23 and so on. If necessary, you can also include the international guarantees of these same freedoms. I did not wish to argue that the General Law on Equal Treatment as such was already contrary to the Constitution and that this conflict would now only increase as a result of the adoption of this bill. Nevertheless, as was originally the case, in the context of the establishment or amendment of the General Law on equal treatment, the question of the extent to which this balancing framework does not conflict, let alone, with the formulation of our national fundamental rights must be asked. That was done at the time, and I believe that this must be done again today, when the law is being amended. That is the spirit of the passage in my contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-eerstekamer-3.u56	If I understand correctly, I hear Mr Holdijk say that if the proposed provisions in the General Law lead to discrimination contrary to Article 23, Article 23 should actually be amended. Could it also be that if there were some friction between the provisions of the proposal and Article 23, the courts would have to interpret the new provisions as being fundamentally consistent, in accordance with Article 23, as a less burdensome solution than a constitutional change? Would that be a solution for a possible sanding point?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-eerstekamer-3.u57	In response to what Mrs Van Bijsterveld has said, my thought is spontaneous, for this moment, that her solution, that the judge is trying to reduce this tension to the minimum possible, is the next best solution. Since we have not been presented with a Constitutional amendment and this proposal may be accepted without amending Article 23, I hope, of course, that the judge will then carry out his or her task to the full. If I do, I was wondering whether the legislative proposal to amend the General Law on equal treatment does sufficiently justice to the freedom of education and to the diversity of education in that respect. More generally, I would like to say that the public authorities have an interest in dealing with legislation, whatever. If the general interest does not make this legislation necessary, including in the light of the Constitution, it must refrain from such legislation, or leave organisations a certain space to perform a social function or leave citizens the room to evade generally imposed obligations as conscientious objectors. This seems to me to be one of the important general principles of wider legislation, but also of the proposal we are discussing today. A motive, albeit not the primary motive, for submitting the legislative proposal lies in removing uncertainty and legal uncertainty. To the extent that it achieves terminological alignment with the relevant EC Directive, there is a possibility of this. Much less is the case if the intention is to formulate even more precisely the legal frameworks of the area in which the judge must come to an agreement. I would also like to say this to Mrs Van Bijsterveld, after her interruption. Problems at this point, when it comes to determining the courtroom, have, to my best knowledge, proved nothing. Therefore, the amendment of the law on this basis is more of an old-fashioned form of legal thinking, with the legislator requiring the court to interpret the law. For example, on behalf of my group, I have had the opportunity to express some rather fundamental and fundamental or legal reservations about the legislative proposal. That does not mean, however, that I indicated there at the beginning of my contribution that I would not appreciate the final text and explanation of the legislative proposal in parts. For example, I have noted with satisfaction, for example, that, at the request of the CDA Group, the initiators confirmed on page 7 of the reply that the power to explain the school base rests with the authority empowered by the statutes and that this also applies mutatis mutandis to other institutions on an ideal basis. I assume that the initiators fully share this view. If it's different, I'd like to hear it. I would also like to express my appreciation for the fact that the law makes it possible for institutions on religious, philosophical or political grounds of persons who work for them or who work for them to be able to ask them to sign that basis explicitly and that of workers in education, even outside the school situation, to be required not to act in a way which is unmistakably contrary to the principles of the school. Finally, I should like to put another question to the Government, which I would like to thank for the answers to our questions in the preliminary report. In their response to the opinion of the Council of State (see page 12), the initiators expressed the view that the fundamental rights balance "has finally shifted something." This would be because the European directive and the legislative proposal expressly do not allow discrimination on grounds other than religion, belief and political orientation. In the letter from the Minister of BZK of 28 October 2014 (Part D, page 2) the government responds to a question from the SGP Group that during the debate with the House of Representatives on the initiative proposal it was not established that the current balance will shift after acceptance of the initiative proposal. My question is obvious: can we assume that the government will stick to that conclusion, even during the debate in this Chamber? I cannot go along with their proposal, but I appreciate the careful work of the initiators on the basis of this proposal. I therefore look forward with interest to their response to my comments and questions, like those of the Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-eerstekamer-3.u58	Madam President. On behalf of the VVD Group, I would also like to thank the authors: Mrs Bergkamp, Mrs Van Ark, Mrs Yücel, Mr Van Dijk and Mr Klaver. I would like to thank them for their initiative, to express my appreciation for the great work they have done and to congratulate them on the results. As far as the VVD Group is concerned, they are reaching the end of this proposal, because the core of this initiative is the freedom of everyone to organise their own lives of their own choosing. That is what my group considers to be the most important point. The initiative proposal contains only a few rules. In principle, however, it is of great importance. Therefore, the final Article II, if it is up to the VVD, may enter into force as soon as possible. However, we have some comments and questions on the objectives of the draft law and on the scope that the draft law gives to the judge. I have three preliminary remarks to make in advance. Firstly, there are not many cases known. However, we have to bear in mind that a large number of people do not come out of the closet or are difficult. According to the COC this is 10%, the bill states 4%. Anyway, it's a lot of people hanging a sword over their heads. The draft law therefore also has a great practical significance, in addition to the principle of principle. Secondly, there is mainly talk of homosexual teachers in Christian education. However, the draft law also covers other religions and trade unions, political parties and professional organisations. It is also about pupils, political belief, race and nationality. We shouldn't strain the design too much into that one example. Thirdly, as far as we are concerned, the timing of the draft law is fine. The applicants could also have waited for an overall review of the AWGB, but that might take a long time. They have now passed the bill and the VVD thinks that is a good choice. Then I come to the objectives of the draft law. Three objectives are set out in the explanatory memorandum and the response. The first is to abolish the single-fact structure, the second is to implement the EU Directive 2000/78/EC and the third is to increase the clarity of the law. My group agrees with all three of them, but unlike fundamental rights, there is a ranking of these objectives. The abolition of the single-fact structure is paramount. What was this construction about? In short, it means that only homosexuality is no basis for distinction. There has to be something else, the so-called additional circumstances, which in themselves are not serious enough for dismissal. The sum of homosexuality and additional circumstances is a ground for dismissal. In other words, the fact that someone is gay is charged from the start. He or she is permanently one-legged in a dismissal procedure. The straight guy doesn't run that risk. We consider this to be a serious form of unauthorized discrimination and we want it to be deleted as soon as possible. The second objective is to incorporate the European directive into our national legislation. It is true that this has proved to be a subject for discussion, but on such an important point as equal treatment, my group considers that there is no longer any need for postponement and further discussion. The third objective is to improve clarity. In itself, my group agrees with this, but it doubts whether the legislative proposal meets this objective. On some points, the law becomes clearer. With the single fact structure, the additional circumstances and therefore the uncertainties about them disappear. This is a gain in terms of legal certainty. The law prohibits the making of distinctions, but the law also makes exceptions for institutions on religious, philosophical or political basis. This is done under strict conditions. This defines the scope of the exceptions, more sharply than has been the case so far. This can also be seen as a profit, but with this new limit new points of discussion may arise. This could lead to a new lack of clarity. Let me give you some examples. Does the law concern only employers or employees? Is respect for the foundation sufficient, or should it be endorsed? Do good loyalty and loyalty only affect the work situation or also private life? How do good faith and loyalty relate to good employeeship from the BW? Is the balance of fundamental rights being distorted in such a way that there is a material hierarchy of fundamental rights? Is that order of precedence contrary to the Constitution? It is not a question of answering these questions. I am concerned that questions will disappear on the one hand, but at the same time new ones will emerge on the other. It is good to realise that there will always be discussion. In view of this ongoing discussion, my group wonders whether the draft law does not leave much to the courts. Also the prediction of court rulings remains uncertain. Would it perhaps have been desirable to settle a number of foreseeable points of discussion in the law? Should we codify existing case law in this law? Should we write down what we know now and what we want? Is this a missed opportunity or were there specific reasons to leave a lot of space to the judge? We should like to hear the comments made by the authors on this point. With a previous change of the AWGB it was exactly the other way around. On the other hand, the proposal for an own-initiative opinion on the refusal of officials restricted the possibility of judicial review. In our opinion and the opinion of a number of other groups in this Chamber, this was wrong. At that time, the Minister said that he would propose, at the time of the next amendment, to delete this limitation from the Court of Justice, which is the state in Article 5 (2) (d) of the Treaty. How's that going? All in all, my group is very positive about the draft law. We look forward to the reaction of the proposers and the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-eerstekamer-3.u59	Mr Schouwenaar touched on something that has already been mentioned by several speakers, namely the possible hierarchy of fundamental rights that would now arise. He asked a question about it, but what is his own view on this? I assume that Mr Schouwenaar did not ask the question without reason.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-eerstekamer-3.u60	I didn't ask a question about it, but I mentioned some examples in asking form. So they were more rhetorical questions. I even said I didn't have to answer the questions. But if Mr Kuiper asks me the question, I will be happy to answer it. In my view, a shift is taking place because Article I, disrespectfully put, falls into the left row, which lowers other freedoms in the order of precedence. Is that such a shift that you need to speak of a constitutional change? In that case, you should follow a completely different procedure. We believe that there is still sufficient room for Christian school authorities, for example, to pursue their own policies. They may make a distinction on political or religious grounds. Do they have a basis and do they have a distinction? Are they relevant restrictions in view of that basis? Doesn't it go beyond the demands of loyalty and good faith? These hurdles must of course be taken, but in our view there is enough room, apart from the indirect distinction, which we have spoken of little, but which also applies fully to those schools. So there is a small shift, but only if it was made impossible, if the current possibilities disappear, you could say that a gradual difference becomes an essential difference. Then you're talking about a constitutional change.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-eerstekamer-3.u61	You acknowledge, I note, that there is a shift which restricts the area of other fundamental rights, such as freedom of association and education. How does Mr Schouwenaar suggest that, in the light of the tradition that we have in our country and which is confirmed in a number of strong statements and in government notes, in order not to place a hierarchy between fundamental rights, I think this is happening now and to say that they all have their own intrinsic value? How does Mr Schouwenaar see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-eerstekamer-3.u62	I think I just said that. I am trying to point out that all these fundamental rights have their own value and can barn together here and there, as Mr Kuiper himself said. These are the situations that cause the problems, and those are the situations that we need to talk about here. However, we must look at the extent of this shift and how serious it is. How big is the heat that's released from that barn? There must be a certain "minimum" to say that this principle of equal ranking of fundamental rights is being undermined. In our view, there is a gradual difference here, but not so great that one should speak of an essential change in that order.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-eerstekamer-3.u63	Madam President. A lot has already been said. I will therefore be brief, but not after I have also appreciated the initiative and thank the initiators, including the previous ones, for the much work they have done. The members of the PvdA Group can well agree with the objective of the initiative legislative proposal that is being discussed here and that is to cancel the single-fact structure in the General Law on equal treatment. It is a step further along the path of equal treatment, which was taken at the time by Minister Dales. However, this construction brought with it a fundamental ambiguity, as has been shown over time. This led to uncertainty for those involved, although in practice this has not led to a large number of court cases. The deletion of the single-fact structure contributes to reducing this uncertainty. And that's important. It is a question of the right of people to equal treatment. A little law change with a big weight! In schools and religious institutions, too, homosexuals must be able to be sure that there is no discrimination based on sexual orientation. That is why I have just read a quote from a letter from those Christian organisations, who are very pleased with this bill. Of course, the schools and institutions are allowed to conduct a personnel policy whereby people are selected on the basis of religion and basis and, of course, on the basis of justified professional requirements. However, that is something other than sexual orientation. Although the current General Law on Equal Treatment states that you cannot dismiss a teacher even now because of the mere fact that he or she is homosexual. But in combination with "additional circumstances," which in themselves are no reason to resign, that is possible. The authors rightly call that an offensive reasoning, because these "additional circumstances" may lead to dismissal in combination with homosexuality, but not in combination with heterosexuality. The principle of non-discrimination or equality, to which the PvdA attaches great importance, is therefore at stake and we welcome this initiative proposal. At the same time, this legislative proposal responds to criticism from among others the Commissioner for Human Rights of the Council of Europe and our own Human Rights College and brings Dutch legislation more into line with the European Directive 2000/78/EC. The thorough consideration of this bill in the House of Representatives did not give our group any reason to ask written questions, but now that this debate is being held, we would like to emphasise the great importance of equal treatment for people with different sexual orientations. It also gives us the opportunity to put a further question to the proposers and to the government on one point. To the proposers, I ask whether this bill provides the judge with additional tools for assessing, for example, the dismissal of a homosexual teacher at a school with a religious impact. This bill does not aim to establish a hierarchy of fundamental rights, whereby the principle of non-discrimination would be of a higher order than freedom of religion. A teacher may be expected to be a good employee within the meaning of the Civil Code and also to respect the basis of the school. Moreover, the general law on equal treatment does not refer to the behaviour of employees, as I really understood, but to that of employers. If an employer, say a school board, considers that the homosexuality of the teacher does not properly relate to the respect of the school's basis and would like to resign, does the judge have any additional tools with this bill in order to arrive at a well-founded ruling, other than making it easier to refer questions to the European Court of Justice if necessary? I ask the government, in response to the commitments in the Lower House, how the College of Human Rights is involved in the monitoring of the law. I also ask how, and to whom, the government is going to insist that the power provided for in the law be used generously to seek a judgment from the Human Rights College at the time when a dismissal procedure is taking place. My group is looking forward to answering her questions with interest, even though it is already clear that the PvdA Group will support this bill wholeheartedly, because equal treatment, regardless of sexual orientation, gender or otherwise, will be another important step forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-eerstekamer-3.u64	Mr. Chairman. I would like to congratulate the authors of the bill on their hard work, which has led to their handling at this potentially final stage. Today we are discussing the Renkema Act. The law deserves that name, because Duran Renkema was fired in 2011 by a liberated-reformed primary school because of the bare fact that he is gay. Renkema was the first gay teacher to fight his resignation through the judge. Before going into more detail about the law, I would like to express my understanding, condolences and appreciation to all those who, in daily life, are faced with discrimination based on race, faith, orientation, belief or any other basis of discrimination that we have prohibited in our Constitution. When religious groups distance themselves from the prohibition of discrimination on the basis of higher authority for them, we do not understand when that distance takes shape as we can now see in Syria and Iraq. Fortunately, discrimination against minorities in our country does not go that far, but in essence it amounts to the same thing: rejection of the other, on the basis of one's own belief that seems to be above all doubt. People with a non-herosexual orientation not only often feel misunderstood, but are often deeply grieved by the way in which they are rejected within society. That may be by the way in which their mode is defined or assessed as a deviation that could or should be eligible for healing, or by pointing out abstinence, but in any case by pointing out change that is contrary to that mode. Duran Renkema said in 2014 in an interview in Trouw that the adoption of the law in the Lower House was the end of an exciting three-year period that left deep, positive and negative traces in his personal life. He "has had a rotten experience in Christian education." I myself taught at Christian schools for seven years and saw more than once how homosexual colleagues were treated in a very inappropriate manner until they left voluntarily or were fired. In many cases they were excellent teachers, who in one way deviated from the ideal line: they were not heterosexual. Many teachers in particular have to do with incomprehension, violence, discrimination, losing their jobs and ending up in isolation. That is Renkema's experience and this one is very recognizable. The House of Representatives has approved a bill that will ensure that schools, as well as other institutions or organisations based on religious beliefs, are not allowed to dismiss teachers or to dismiss students because of the fact that they are homosexual. The COC fought for twenty years for the abolition of the so-called "singlefact construction." The real breakthrough took place four years ago, through the resignation that Renkema fought. It is not because there are no other cases that there has never been a dismissal in an Orthodox-Christian school before. "You can be talked into this. So a lot of gays stay invisible. Or they're gonna be bullied away. It is scandalous that people are being discharged like this," Renkema said at the treatment in the Lower House. He denounced his resignation and it gave him the right of the judge and a lot of publicity, and a huge risk, because in times of Twitter, Facebook and Google the whole history of his struggle will continue to be found for parents, teachers and students in future schools. If anyone ever came out of the closet with all the risks, it is Renkema and he deserves great appreciation as far as my group is concerned. Duran Renkema eventually left the school in Oegstgeest despite his victory and now works at another Christian elementary school. "Starting with a clean slate, that's never gonna happen to me again. School boards, colleagues, parents: they can all google me and read all the nonsense that has been written. That's a false start, isn't it? You have to convince all these people. But now I dare say that 90% of the parents just think I'm a good teacher." For children, a gay teacher is not an issue at all, is Renkema's experience. They're pure and they don't stick labels. They make their own decisions. "It's about the parents. And if the school board supports you." Renkema now has that support: from the school, and from the law we are discussing today, which can actually gain the power of law when we decide that the faith of an employer should not matter to private life or to the belief of life, let alone to the mode of an employee. Does the law forbid a Christian school to fire an openly gay teacher? The single fact-finding structure of the General Law on Equal Treatment was not effectively reviewed for a long time. The question was: is a reformatory school even out of line by firing an openly gay teacher? From the point of view of special education, it is stated that the Equal Treatment Committee has no authority over special education and therefore does not make binding statements. A judge may take those judgments into account, but may also ignore them, as the case of a hands-defying Muslim shows. If the employee wishes to sue, this should initially be done by means of a procedure with a Disputes Commission, which is often required to do so. If a lecturer ultimately wants to challenge the dismissal, the canton court has jurisdiction in that regard. It is generally pragmatic and does not force parties to cooperate if such cooperation no longer seems workable. The judiciary is not unambiguous in this respect, it is brought in from reformatorial circles. The canton judge in Almelo once spoke about a cohabiting teacher at a reformatorical elementary school. His personal life didn't concern the employer, said the teacher. The school argued that an extramarital relationship does not fall exclusively in the private sphere, given the peculiarity of education at a reformatory school, lying in the unity of family, church and school. The canton judge could "fairly" and fired. A similar line followed the canton judge in Amsterdam at an Islamic school that wanted to fire his gay director. It was assumed that there was no longer a workable relationship to maintain and this led to dismissal. On this basis, school leaders from Orthodox Christian circles suggest that a dismissal, based on a belief or belief of life, is likely to occur. -style of a teacher who is contrary to the creed, should not be without chance. Question is, what's the deal with this single-fact construction? A school shouldn't fire, or not appoint, on the sole grounds that someone is practicing gay? From special schools, however, it is suggested that the General Law on Equal Treatment does not seem to play such an important role in many case-law. Moreover, there are schools that are not associations, but are independent parts of a church to which they are linked. If a school assumes one or more churches of the same connection, it is possible to operate as part of that church or churches. The General Law on Equal Treatment does not apply to "legal relations within churches and their independent parts and bodies in which they are united." On this basis, it could be argued that such a "church school" falls outside the scope of the General Law on equal treatment. My question to the proposers is how they look at this escape route that is currently being suggested within Orthodox school boards in reformatorial media. However, if it were to be assessed under the General Law on Equal Treatment, the question remains whether in a case involving a practicing homosexual teacher dismissal is impossible. Can the fact of a "disturbed working relationship" be invoked as an additional circumstance in itself? I would like to receive a response from the Minister. The General Law on Equal Treatment prohibits dismissal for "some facts" because this makes a direct distinction. As an exception, a special education institution is entitled to "declare requirements necessary for the achievement of its foundation'. This exception relates to the freedom of education. How do the proposers judge this exception in relation to the bill? This exception is, however, legally restricted by the rule that such a requirement to achieve identity should not lead to discrimination on the basis of the single fact of homosexual orientation. The Equal Treatment Committee has developed criteria for this: recourse to the derogation is justified if the measure is necessary to the teacher in view of the basis and if the policy is consistent. Can it be assumed, based on consistent school policy, that a judge assumes that a dismissal measure is in line with foundation and purpose? At the time, the Minister stated that the fact that a homosexual teacher actually starts living together is not an additional fact in the treatment of the General Law on Equal Treatment in the House of Representatives, but is related to the sexual orientation that is protected. However, the cabinet also stated: "But if there is more to the fact than that, if a teacher no longer carries and conveys the conviction of the school, then it is something else, namely the functioning of that teacher in the context of the school concerned (...) This concerns the setting up of a teacher who raises doubts as to whether this teacher is still behind the school's foundation and whether this teacher is still able to carry out the school's foundation in a credible way. It is therefore a question of behaviour which gives rise to the additional circumstances and which, in addition to the mere fact, is a practice which undermines the functioning of the teacher in a particular school with a certain view." How do the proposers and the Minister view this statement in relation to the present bill? It has been over 20 years since the General Law on Equal Treatment was introduced. All this time, the single-fact construction has led to a lot of uncertainty. We have to establish that the characteristic of human beings, their sexual orientation, should not be considered relevant to their work or their qualities as teachers. If there's a legitimate reason for dismissal, you should be able to fire someone. However, sexual orientation has nothing to do with that and it must remain out of it. As far as my group is concerned, therefore, there is no need for the single fact-finding structure.
