ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-5.u1	Mr. Chairman. In Petten, North Holland, there is an important producer of medical isotopes. It is an innovative production company, working together with the government on a new generation of isotopes. The isotopes are of great importance for the detection of cancer and tumors. Almost a third of all isotopes used in the world come from Petten, and more than 7 million patients use materials produced in Petten every year. In 2009-2010, when there was a major shortage of isotopes due to problems in Canada, it became clear once again how important isotopes are in the treatment and finding of tumours. In order to meet the need for isotopes in the long term, Minister Kamp, together with the province of North Holland, has launched a programme to replace the old reactor with a new state-of-the-art reactor. Cost: a sloppy 500 million. The feasibility study would be funded by both the Empire and the Province. According to reports in the Volkskrant, which would quote secret documents, the province of Noord-Holland is threatening to withdraw that aid. My question to the Minister is whether the reports in the newspaper are correct that North Holland intends to withdraw the aid. Is this intention or doubt shared with the Ministry of Economic Affairs? What is the motivation of Noord-Holland to stop making the money available?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. I am acting on behalf of the cabinet and, in particular, on behalf of the Minister for Economic Affairs, who is now serving the interests of our country elsewhere. We have also taken note of the reports in the Volkskrant. I can't confirm them. We have of course asked about the province of Noord-Holland, but it has not yet confirmed it. However, Minister Kamp will hold administrative consultations with the province of Noord-Holland on this matter next Friday. We're in this together with the province of Noord-Holland. We have already indicated together in 2012 that we want to pick up the pre-financing Samsam in the preliminary phase of the development of a new reactor. That's still our intention. All I can say is that we are still going through Friday's administrative consultations with that intention. If there are any new developments there, we will, of course, report them to the Chamber immediately. Furthermore, Minister Kamp has already indicated to the Chamber that the Court will be informed in intermediate steps at every intermediate stage. So we will be able to do that again next week. At the moment, however, I do not yet have confirmation of the alleged messages.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-5.u3	I won't go into a well-naïve discussion with the Minister. I note, however, that in addition to the Volkskrant, the Noordhollands Dagblad has also written about this problem, as I would like to call it. In this, the deputy does indeed deal with a situation "which could lead to." He expressed his doubts about the feasibility of the project. I thank the Minister for the answer he has given, but I do think we should look at it in the broad context. I think that would reassure a number of people. I'm thinking of people who are sick or who were sick or who are doctors working on cancer research. Can the Minister tell us anything more about the final business case? Have investors already been found who want to participate alongside the government in the production of high-quality medical isotopes?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-5.u4	In order to reassure Mr Van Veen, I can say that our intention is unchanged. We still see the great importance of the reactor in Petten and of the investment in the new reactor. However, he is right that it is our intention to bring pre-financing of the start-up phase to business investors over the threshold. There is an interest, but of course it will only become concrete if all the preparations, the design phase and the licensing phase are very far-reaching. That is why this pre-financing is crucial. That is why we need the province of North Holland. That's our bet. This is how we enter into the consultations on Friday. I hope to return to the Chamber with a positive message.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-5.u5	My party would like to continue to believe in the Pallas project. Of course, agreements have been made with the province of Noord-Holland. When the province of Noord-Holland withdraws its support, the government also withdraws its support. For my group, the importance of research and innovation is very important, as is the great dependence on these substances to overcome cancer. On my last visit to Petten, I was able to see that myself. Again, this includes a closing business case, as the Minister himself states. Can the Minister promise that he will discuss this in the near future? He will do that on Friday, but would he like to inform the Chamber immediately about the exact state of affairs?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-5.u6	We will do so as soon as possible after Friday.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-5.u7	I would like this Minister to confirm that the market must finally pick this up, as Minister Kamp wrote in his letter. I'd also like to have the board agreement that's been concluded in the Chamber. It's not on the Internet. It would be very nice if we received that. It says, for example, that if the province decides not to finance the Empire doesn't. I've spoken to the radio program Argos. That's what the secret minutes saw. So I didn't see it myself, but she did. They confirm that, in the absence of future prospects for this nuclear power plant, the province of Noord-Holland is indeed considering not paying its first instalment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-5.u8	The first instalment has already been paid, also by the province of North Holland. We stand for the moment to decide on the second tranche. Once again, we have asked the province whether there is a secret note that we could get. That was not the case, at least we could not have it. We are hearing on Friday in the administrative consultation procedure, and that is fine with me at the moment what the province of North Holland thinks about the second tranche. We'll inform the Chamber about that. It is our intention to work together with the province of Noord-Holland; I can only confirm this. If she runs away, the Empire won't be ready to pick up the bill immediately. We have a joint commitment here and I hope that we can keep it up.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-5.u9	And the question about the secret administration agreement?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-5.u10	I will pass it on to the Minister of Economic Affairs. I cannot judge this as l'improviste, but we shall return to it in the letter that we will send to the Chamber next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-5.u11	The production of medical isotopes is of great importance. I understand, therefore, that this matter is on the agenda for Question Time. My question concerns the information that will be received from the Chamber of the Minister. I understand that no irreversible decisions will be taken before the Chamber is informed. Does the Minister also wish to involve current international developments? I understand from media reports that work is also being carried out on the production of medical isotopes in the international context. New installations are being built in Canada and France. If we take a decision on the second tranche, would it not be wise to involve these international developments explicitly, of course alongside the market players?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-5.u12	I will return to that in the letter. The business case prepared a few years ago has recently been updated. This includes the latest international developments. It is precisely as Mr Van Veen said in his speech that 60% of the European market and 30% of the world market for these medical isotopes are served by Petten. Of course there are new developments and there are other initiatives, but replacing that capacity will have to happen somewhere. The argument that there are new initiatives and that therefore the question is whether Petten is still needed is too soon for me. 60% of the European market for medical isotopes is currently operated by the Petten reactor.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-5.u13	I'm very close to Mrs. Fat. Apparently, we always have the same questions. I hope the Minister will also recognise the fact that cyclotron technology is becoming more mainstream. We talk a lot of like-dance terms, because the consultation still has to take place. If the Minister of Economic Affairs is going to talk to the province, is the starting point indeed Samsam, as the Minister now says? If the province decides to pull the plug, is the consequence for the Empire that the loan will be suspended or is there some kind of perseverance from top to bottom that will allow the Minister of Economic Affairs to change the province's mind?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-5.u14	I'm not ruling out the latter, but not on the basis of perseverance. We will not impose this on the province. I hope we can convince her. Again, I don't know if this is necessary at all, that will turn out to be Friday. In the Volkskrant there was a ratio of 40 province and 80 empire, but that ratio is 40:40. That's how we're in it. A total of 80 is needed to finance the preparatory phase. Once that preparatory phase has been completed, business parties will, in our opinion, be prepared to take care of the construction, construction and operation. Otherwise, we would not be doing this pre-financing. So it's Samsam.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-5.u15	I thank the Minister for his commitments. The CDA would like to hear whether the Minister can also comment on the importance of nuclear knowledge in the Netherlands in the promised letter, in which many points will be raised. Petten and later Pallas play an important role in this, in addition to those important isotopes for the people who have or do get cancer. We in Europe must have the right resources for health care.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-5.u16	I fully agree with Mrs Mulder. However, I would suggest to her that we do not write this down again in the promised letter. The importance of this theme has been endorsed in all previous letters from Minister Kamp and the Minister of VWS. This is the main argument to strive for a new reactor in Petten, precisely this importance. So be assured this is our motivation. Writing it again wouldn't be more than copy-pasting the previous letter. This is what we're doing. Moreover, the importance of regional employment is also very important for the province of Noord-Holland, as it involves thousands of jobs in North Holland. I hope this will continue to motivate the province of North Holland, in addition to the medical argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-5.u17	Thank you for your answers and your coming to the Chamber.
