ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u1	We shall continue with the first term on the part of the Chamber and that is the turn of Mr Recourt of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u2	Mr. Chairman. Together with my colleague Ahmed Marcouch, I will speak on behalf of the Labour Party. I will start with Paris, because that is the subject that concerns us all. Death and horror have come very close, first to Paris and later to Brussels. Those attacks scared me, but they also pissed me off. That doesn't just apply to me. I think it applies to almost all Dutch people. In order to remove that anger, the perpetrators must be caught and tried and IS must be combated. To remove the fear, we need to increase the safety of Dutch people even further, by finding out more at an earlier stage, by appealing to our allies even more strongly to their efforts. Within what is possible and sensible, we are not doing enough. We must continue to do this with the utmost urgency, not only in the Netherlands, but also in the Netherlands in Europe. No one can guarantee that there are measures that guarantee safety 100% in the Netherlands. We must live with the fact that our open, safe and prosperous country is vulnerable. That's the time; let's deal with it. So we have to fight those vulnerabilities, and in the long run we can only win that fight if we realize that it is a battle of realists against extremists, if we realize that everyone is needed and if we realize that we have to stop our energy in preventing attacks and not in healing. So it is not acceptable that we do not yet have the rapid registration of refugees in order. I understand even better after Paris why people are fleeing, but we need to know who's coming here, and then we can separate the good from the bad. Is that in order now, national and European? I'll ask the Secretary of State. Intelligence services need to work even better together, and I continue to argue, not for a European intelligence service, but for a place where these services physically work together and exchange data. The culture of giving information only when it is necessary must change within services that we trust and work with, into a situation where anti-terrorist information is exchanged by default, unless there are good reasons not to. That is the key: information we obtain by technical means, but also information from allies, and by allies I also mean the family of someone who travels to Syria. The teacher or anyone in the area of radicalizing people. We must continue to invest in neighbourhoods, in people, in knowledge, and technology must help in this. At a time when people mainly communicate digitally and we store a lot of data, the services must be able to retrieve relevant information from it. For that, you must be able to look smartly, with the right guarantees, and I say this very strongly in relation to proportionality, independent control, legal protection and so on. One of the laws that has to regulate this, the Intelligence and Security Services Act (WIV), is not yet in the Chamber and we urge the Cabinet to urgently come to a careful law. We want the cabinet to give the highest priority to legislative proposals from the jihadism action programme. We want a solution very quickly for those returners who we cannot prosecute in criminal matters, but who we do not want to allow to return to society. We propose to examine whether we can impose a measure on them. Finally, we are concerned about possible cyber attacks by terrorists. The next attack will always be different from the last one. You need to prepare for the unexpected. What about the safety of locks, the control tower at Schiphol Airport, our payments? I have heard many plans and measures over the last few weeks, but the cyber side was completely missing, and that is when we know that ISIS has the resources and knowledge in this area. Can we trust the smartest boys and girls in this field to work for our services? Anonymous does not protect our locks, airports or bank balances; we really have to do so ourselves. The number of digital targets is incredibly large. Refugees who fear for their lives deserve a safe life. This is a responsibility that we must take on together in Europe. We offer this reception here, but also in neighbouring conflict areas, so that people do not cross the road in crummy boats and we can handle the amount of refugees. We have to provide shelter, but it's not gonna happen by itself. We also see the problems of housing, employment and integration. Refugees arriving in the Netherlands must therefore be able to adapt quickly by learning the language and our standards and values. Providing solutions to the legitimate concerns and providing decent reception to refugees is at present our main task.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u3	Mr Recourt rightly stressed the urgent nature of the refugee problem. He also says that these people need to adapt quickly and that they need to get to work on integration. Does this also mean that Mr Recourt advocates, for example, language lessons from day one?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u4	I am in favour of language lessons, but on the question of whether this can be done from day one, I must not blame you for the answer. I'm not a spokesperson in this area. You often have the debate with lecture Kuiks and she will have answered you on this point. I know of D66's proposal to start language lessons on day one. I also know that we are sympathetic to this, but I just don't remember if we supported this plan exactly. I can give the answer in the second term, but the fact that Mr Sjoerdsma is asking makes me think that we did not fully support the plan. I hear "as soon as possible."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u5	I heard a little whisper "as soon as possible." That is, of course, welcome, because it is not happening at the moment. At present, asylum seekers are on average six months in prison and, if I may believe the letter from the Secretary of State, it may take longer to wait for them to enter the permit. Is the PvdA prepared to bite through on this point and ensure that the Cabinet actually takes care of those language lessons?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u6	The PvdA wants language lessons as soon as possible. We will first ask the cabinet how it will realize it, because I understand that there is a lot to be done. There are many challenges. This one's very important, but it's not the only one. Depending on the answer, we will see whether it is sufficient or whether we need to take another step further.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u7	I have two questions for Mr Recourt. The first is the question I asked Mr Azmani. The people need to be taken in, but when we look at the budget for the COA, we see a hole of 400 to 500 million. What is the PvdA's view on this? Secondly, the Secretary of State has previously threatened to put people on the street with some pocket money if there are any more. What is the PvdA's commitment to that statement by the Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u8	The first point has already been raised in the General Financial Considerations. The Minister of Finance said that he would come up with a solution to this problem in the Navy's note. It will probably cost more money, given the estimate we received yesterday. That was also my question, and I do not need to ask it now. I want that solved, too, but I understand that this is not possible today. After all, the estimate is yesterday's. However, it must be made clear quickly. The reception must be provided, and that will cost money. That needs to be taken care of. On the second point, Mr Voordewind still has to help me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u9	That was about the question...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u10	Whether people should be on the streets. No, not basically, but we do have to row with the belts we have. The answer remains, in principle, no, but with the very small reservation that emergency law breaks. As soon as there are more, I can't see what and how we're gonna do it, but the starting point is that people get care in a decent way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u11	That is clear on the second point. On the first point, the following. Of course, we will have to vote on the budget for security and justice later. The Navy note will not be dealt with in the Chamber until the last week before Christmas. How is the Labour Party going to justify voting on a budget when it is not yet known whether the gap of 400 or 500 million is covered? Do you not think it is justified to ask the Secretary of State to at least give an indication as to whether that hole will be closed?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u12	I told you, I have that question in my speech. I don't think that coverage should have been delivered by now. Once again, that would be too short a day: yesterday a letter and today the cover. Moreover, it is expected, but still uncertain inflow. If you asked an accountant, he would not say: it has to be today, with this budget. We have some time left, so let's do it carefully and well.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u13	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u14	The Labour Party calls for a new European asylum policy with hotspots at the borders of Europe, so that reception is distributed among the European countries. A policy in which humane care and a just return are central. In addition, Europe must jointly monitor the external borders and develop a tough approach to smugglers. However, it starts with the removal of the need for flights, on the one hand, through diplomatic efforts, on the other hand, by improving emergency care in neighbouring conflict areas. Providing perspective on education and employment is one of the most important conditions for reception in the region. European Member States refusing to take responsibility for receiving asylum seekers must face sanctions. It should not be the case that Member States only experience the lusts and not the burdens of our European cooperation. The PvdA opposes the "every man for himself." Finally, a number of questions to the Secretary of State. I see Mrs. Gesthuizen standing by the interrupting microphone. Shall I ask the questions first? I have already said the first: what about the availability and funding of long-term care? Is there enough money for that? The Secretary of State expects 58.000 refugees for next year. How's he gonna do that? Can he show you that yet? Is he able to make our already overloaded system look ahead and ensure that we can move from emergency care to a more structured approach?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u15	I would like to touch on the previous point, the unwillingness of European countries to help and cooperate in, for example, the redistribution of refugees, I assume that Mr Recourt is also referring to this, or to ensure that your own reception is properly arranged at all. Mr Recourt also mentioned the issue of sanctions. What if we go down that road? Of course, we have agreements, and if you don't keep them, sanctions are always possible. But isn't that kind of the wrong way? Should we force solidarity in the European Union through the threat of sanctions? Isn't that a bad road?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u16	It's not bad, it's annoying. You would like countries to be positively motivated to solve this problem. However, the practice seems to be different. At that point, you can say: you also receive subsidies from Europe and all kinds of other desires, so we are going to look critically at that if you do not accept what you experience as a burden. I think that's acceptable.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u17	Mr Recourt and I generally agree with the way in which we look at the problem, our ideals and our solutions, but in this case I would like to say that in terms of helping, cooperating and helping other countries, including the Netherlands, our government, there are some points to be made. Take that back to Hungary or sit back for years with regard to the needs of, for example, the Italian government. To what extent will other countries, according to Mr Recourt, be prepared to shoulder the burden if even a country like the Netherlands sits back at the necessary moments and sits back together with the poor?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u18	I do not believe that the Netherlands sits with its arms over each other and leans back. Of course, you can discuss whether the Netherlands is doing enough, but there has been a commitment from the Netherlands in Greece and Italy lately. As far as Hungary is concerned, it is not only the condition that 'you will take back those who have applied for asylum from you on the basis of the Dublin agreement', but also the condition that 'you must do so properly'. When there comes a question that one wants to be helped, we will, of course, look at it by then. Again, I'd rather stimulate positive than negative. I only fear, when I look at it from a distance, that the positive stimulus is insufficient. So I fear that both the root and the stick is needed to really get European asylum policy off the ground. I come to the next topic. People are afraid of attacks, which is understandable, but they are also afraid of criminals in their own country. That is remarkable in a way, because crime decreases year after year. So it's going well, you'd say. Meanwhile, however, people are concerned about their safety, challenge motorcycle gangs to authority, the workload of police, OM and judges is sky high, people don't feel protected, not in their safety, not in their privacy and not in their rights. This is an almost impossible task for the cabinet. Apart from the terrorist threat, to which every possible effort is rightly made, the official figures are heading in the right direction, but certainly not the unofficial feelings. What are we gonna do? The PvdA says: go ahead, but not on the familiar road. Open the doors to the Justice Department. We're asking for renewal. With more extra money coming to justice, that should not only be spent on more of the same. So we want innovation and we want the citizens to be put at the centre of all these plans. This is the last budget of this cabinet in which there is still room for renewal. There is no shortage of ambition and work in the Ministry of V and J. This is the Ministry responsible for the reception of refugees and the fight against terrorism. Much bigger assignments can hardly be imagined. But also the biggest reorganisation in Dutch history, the National Police, is on the plate of this ministry. A huge task of a completely different nature is the revision of the Code of Criminal Procedure. Eighteen legislative proposals are being prepared for this. We also have the EU Presidency in the category of major projects.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u19	Mr Recourt is asking for renewal. I would almost put it in my mouth: the helm has to be turned. After all, I have the exact title of the interview Mr Recourt gave with Mr Marcouch three years ago. In two days, it'll even be three years ago. In that interview, the PvdA says that the helm has to change in the justice department. While Mr Recourt says that this is the last year of this cabinet with a full budget, I also hear him say that there is a need to renew it. What has the PvdA done in recent years to reduce the budget of the Justice Department, to get rid of that feeling of justice and to those crazy legislative proposals that fortunately have all been dropped in the Senate? What did the PvdA who was at the helm do?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u20	The helm has to change with regard to Rutte I. That was the cabinet with bad plans for the Justice Department. The helm has changed, because those bad plans have gone off the table. Good plans came back for it. That's actually the first summary.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u21	The hesitant way in which Mr Recourt brings this is not known to set an example, and it indicates that the PvdA has just been pitting while the VVD was tearing down the ministry. That's what happened! In fact, in that interview the PvdA announced that the VVD could no longer count on a conservative majority in this house. The duo Recourt and Marcouch hit their chests with a progressive majority "with which they will cooperate." "We will develop initiatives with the progressive majority." None of this has happened, but in the last year of this cabinet, the PvdA says it wants renewal and wants it to move forward, while it is the opposition that has had to close the gaps here! If we had not kept our feet firmly in the past week, this budget, this pork cheese, would simply have been forwarded to the Senate. Because we have an opposition position there, the government has had to adjust the budget. Mr Recourt has to take the word'renovation' and the call for a change of direction, either concretely or swallowed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u22	Then let me make it concrete. I refer to the initiatives, including with D66, in the fields of marriage, property law and divorce. Even we are working together with D66 on the legalization of drugs. We do not get a majority in this Chamber on this point, but D66 does find a constructive PvdA on her side. Mr Pechtold says that the First Chamber has stopped nasty laws, but Mr Pechtold has not seen the increase in registry fees passing through here. It didn't pass through the Lower House. For other laws, I give all the credits to the First Chamber; I have to admit that. This cabinet doesn't mess around with that remark, of course, I should have started, but it does what both PvdA and VVD had to do, namely pay attention to the pennies. Not only the Ministry of Security and Justice, but all ministries had to do so. In this case, they had to do so from the coalition parties. If D66 had ruled, they probably should have done it from D66, because Mr Pechtold too has simply included a reduction in security in his election programme. It is quite easy, even for D66, to say constantly in everything that hurts: we do not participate in this, because this hurts the rule of law. D66 puts no alternative to that, other than the legalization of soft drugs, which does not make it in the Chamber. So that's a fake alternative.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u23	This is an important point. Indeed, some of the money is released under pressure from the opposition, but it would be nice if the PvdA also had the guts and the courage to take a second step and check the whole list for once. If we look at our ambitions with regard to the Public Prosecutor, the judiciary and the police, which have ambitions, the PvdA too, as Mr Recourt has just said nicely, it would be nice if the cabinet were to take that one step further and come up with more resources.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u24	That would certainly be nice. I fully admit to the opposition that she has said that there must be money. By the way, I would also like to say that my group chairman and that of the VVD in the General Political Reviews have also expressed their dissatisfaction. However, there is also a need for a majority in the Upper House, so the credits are where the credits belong. As far as we are concerned, they are at least shared. Of course, as the Justice spokesperson, I would very much like to have money. The D.A.'s office says it's a nice first step, but it wants to take further steps. This is also heard within the probation and the case-law. Except I don't have that money, so I count my blessings. I see the worst needs are being served. I see that the cabinet has kept its word. After all, the cabinet has said that there is always an outstretched hand; when it fails, the cabinet places money in it. This has been done, partly under opposition pressure. For this budget 250 million is added while 200 million was requested. It can always be more, but for now it's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u25	If you look at that outstretched hand, you can see it might be two fingers. However, you need all the fingers of a hand to make a fist. I'm asking the PvdA to deliver the other three fingers as well. Those are fingers for the State's Attorney's Office, the justice department and the police. Previously, Mr Recourt and I had a debate on the radio. Then I heard Mr Recourt say something special. He said he was going for the preservation of the seven courts, with a view to a full justice close to home. Let me try to get agreement on that. Does Mr Recourt agree with the SP that we should ensure that the quality of justice is maintained and that we should therefore also go close to justice?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u26	Yes. In fact, it is my own motion that has been adopted by this Chamber. In that motion a ruling was given on full justice, not only in the courts, but also in a number of canton locations, for the benefit of common case law. I have a very extensive input on this subject, so I would ask Mrs Kooiman to listen to it first and then ask questions if necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u27	We do interrupts in two.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u28	I was gonna ask the same thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u29	Okay, we'll come back to that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u30	I've got at least two.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u31	I have another question about the effectiveness of the Labour Party, one of the two government parties. That question concerns partner alimony. Can Mr Recourt tell us what the situation is now, because a lot of Dutch people pay blue to partner alimony. They are waiting for a much shorter duration and Mr Recourt is preparing a legislative proposal. When can this be introduced?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u32	I'm afraid to venture predictions anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u33	That would have taken a very long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u34	Yes, that's right, but careful legislation is also important. I cannot say at all what the Council of State will judge; that is up to the Council of State. It is a difficult matter and I predict that the necessary words will also be exchanged in the Chamber. We're doing our best, it's not us. In the coming year we will have many other, less radical plans for the Ministry, as well as ambitions and the inevitable incidents that will certainly occur. What about, for example, the progress of the Court's automation agenda, KEI? I'm getting more and more disturbing signals. When will the Law on Computer Crime III come? I read in the newspaper today that another child pornography network has been rolled up. We need that law urgently. I am not saying that we will be uncritical, but we want to deal with this law quickly. It remains silent for too long about initiatives from the Chamber, such as the 2011 Labour Party's proposal to establish a public shareholder register. The Minister has his hands full controlling the massive device. He's doing this incredibly well. I'll give him that compliment. This also applies to the Secretary of State. The Minister knows how to keep an admirable number of balls in the air and I am concerned about that; it is too much for one minister and one secretary of state in the long run. The political direction is therefore vulnerable. Are power and counterpower still sufficiently guaranteed? Is this still workable? Asking the question is answering it. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The Labour Party knows the value of the rule of law and its price.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u35	I wonder if Mr Recourt is not afraid that we will go back to the old tribal struggle that used to exist between the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Justice. That could be so flat that the Minister of Police and the Minister of Justice discussed the question of who could be in the front of the picture.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u36	It is embarrassing if that happens, if that were the case, but I take it directly from Mr Van Oosten. Of course, I am not concerned with the question of who gets to take the picture first, but with the organisation of power and counterpower. I am concerned that we have a ministry with a realistic span of control for one minister and one secretary of state. I think that is important, and I now have my doubts about it. Police are then best placed to do so because checks and balances are involved, but also foreign legislation is becoming an increasingly important element through consultation with mayors and reception services. I want there to be a manageable ministry and we are constantly organising power and counterpower in our country. That is one of the essentials of our rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u37	Of course, I would like to agree with Mr Recourt on the latter, but is there not a part of that power and opposition between this cabinet and this Parliament? Is it not also up to us to exercise proper control over the cabinet, including that large Ministry of Security and Justice? Does it not also have considerable added value to have the entire criminal justice chain in one hand, from the beginning to the end of the probation? How does Mr Recourt look at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u38	To start with a detail: I certainly don't think the probation is the end. It has its advantages. For that reason, I think that this cabinet finally chose that mode: everything in one hand. The incidents that have taken place and the enormous amount of tasks that lie on the shoulders of these two people show that it is difficult for them alone to run this ministry. Let alone allow the Chamber, which is more remote, to oversee what is happening there. So I would like to add an extra balance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u39	I agree. I also think that this has become completely distorted between the Interior and the Justice Department. If the PvdA says that here today in the budget debate, I think it should do something about that too. The PvdA Group cannot say: you know what, we rule for three years and in the fourth year we announce that we will solve the climate problem after we have done nothing about it for four years. You can't say: we're going to do something about justice after we've made that mistake for four years. The only thing that would slow us down now is the division of political weight between PvdA and VVD on the number of ministers and secretaries of state. That's the only thing that slows down. Then it is in the hands of the PvdA just to do something about it next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u40	It's not true that this cabinet isn't doing anything about the environment. It may be a step more, that we saw last week, but it is not true that nothing is happening. It's also not true that nothing happens on the Justice Department. Only, to change the beacons now, seems very unwise to me. This minister is negotiating the police cao. This minister is in the process of making this reorganisation a success. It seems to me that it would not help if the Minister dropped all of this and we moved it to the Home Office. That's typically something you have to work on with some preparation time. That is why we are now saying that this is our commitment to the forthcoming cabinet negotiations, should we be allowed to participate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u41	I must admit I'm wrong. It's true: something happened at the Justice Department. The Minister has left, the Secretary of State has left, the Secretary-General has left, the Head of Information has left and the Chief of Police has left. He retired, but when he heard that he said: well, not at all retired; departed. So something happened at the Justice Department. Exactly what I am now referring to is the result of an overloaded ministry and a lack of political direction. Mr Recourt analyzes that, and I find that manly, because you saw that the VVD was going to interrupt right away. But if you're gonna do that, you're gonna have to make something out of it. Then you have to say: okay, then we're going to give Minister Plasterk some extra tasks. I repeat it, because I am afraid Mr Recourt is not going to agree with me: the only reason why that does not happen is that it is a political deal between VVD and PvdA to keep it that way. If those two do not jump over their shadows, then they are beautiful words, but cheap words.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u42	I've already answered that. If you did that now, you'd make more chunks than you'd make whole. That's the last thing the Labour Party wants. I told you, we know the value of the rule of law, but we also know its price. That is what this budget seems to be about, about the price of the rule of law. I would prefer to say that in the case of something of such value, we are not going to be difficult about money and yet I am not saying that, because that would deny the essence of politics. In politics it is about making choices in the distribution of scarce resources and scarce money. You can agree with cuts or not and then debate them. However, you cannot just say that you must not cut back, because that by definition undermines the rule of law. Fortunately, most of the parties in the Chamber do not either, because they have introduced a substantial reduction in security in almost all their electoral programmes and their distribution by the Central Planning Office. Money is therefore the subject, and above all what you spend that money on, with a number of values that are not valued on money. That's money. Structurally 250 million is good news and that was necessary. Structural money goes to organizations that have been under pressure for years: the police, the public prosecutor, the judiciary, the probation and the NFI. Access to the law was further under pressure by again increasing the Registry fees and that is not going to happen. There will be no further cuts in legal aid in 2016, pending the Wolfsen report, thanks to a motion from the Upper House. There is also investment in quality. Although it can always be more, there is now every reason for satisfaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u43	I hear "all reason for satisfaction." I'm gonna take a look at the list I have. It says there's $5 million going to the NFI and $5 million to parole...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u44	Plus 13.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u45	... and that's very nice. However, there is 15 million going to the state's attorney's office and that is really half of what is needed there. There's 20 million going to justice, and there's 30 million more to it. With the police, there's nothing left under the line. Then I come to 50 million in investments, when, if you look at what has been broken down over the past few years, which the Labour Party did support, then I can't say I'm jumping here right now. So where is the fist of the Labour Party when it comes to investment in the rule of law and the security of the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u46	Of course, security has been cut back in recent years, which was also the subject of my entire previous piece. That is what we stand for, but if these cuts go at the expense of too much, then it is good that we are also being redirected and that means that we have an additional 250 million. If we give EUR 20 million to justice and EUR 25 million the following year, and the case law says that this is too little and that there is an additional EUR 20 million to be added, I understand that from the point of view of justice. Same goes for the D.A. and the police. I'd do it myself in their position. But I also don't know if it's the best solution to honour all wishes right away. I don't think so. Take the D.A.'s office. We have the De Galan II report on this, which has been validated and money added. That money makes it possible for the employees of the D.A. simply to be able to do their work in their first line of work somewhat sufficiently solid. If they're gonna do extra jobs, they're gonna need more money. That's not in the 250 million, and I totally agree with Mrs Kooiman. I think that would be asking over the financial possibilities of this cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u47	So what I don't understand is this. Here is a Labour Party which has the power to offer the opposition a truly outstretched hand. We're all actually asking for the extra 200 million. So I think it's a pity that I only get a pinky, because I can't get any further than 50 million. I ask the Labour Party today to stand up and say: yes, we are no longer cutting back, we are putting a line through it, given the present time with the need for more security, the call for more police and better justice, so that the quality can be maintained and the public prosecutor can continue to do the work.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u48	Instead of budget cuts, money has been added. I don't share the 50 million-dollar math with Mrs. Kooiman. There's a lot more going on. If you add everything up to wishes, then of course it is a different story, but if you look at it realistically there are substantial amounts going to organizations that were actually squeezed before. We have had many debates on this. Eventually, I don't share the cops' stuff either. Of course, at the moment, the cabinet cannot say what the collective bargaining will cost. This is inherent in negotiations. There must be some ambiguity, because at the moment you say "we have this money for it" you also know for sure that you have lost it. There is, however, quite a substantial amount of money reserved for it. That's the jar where it's gonna break up anyway. Those other "pluss" are out of there. At least when it is disappointing, that money cannot be taken out of the other budget lines.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u49	Mr Recourt is, of course, right; money is not free, it has to come from somewhere. But let's look at the money that is released right now. I call the 20 million for justice. The Council of Justice has said that this should be 50 million. Mr Recourt says that we do not have that money, for the time being. The Minister has asked for a second opinion and it came out at 15 million extra for the justice system. Then perhaps Mr Recourt will say: we do not have that money either. It seems, however, that the 20 million will now have to be fully earmarked for ICT. Does the PvdA think that is right or does it say with the Christian Union that part of the 20 million could perhaps be well spent on strengthening justice?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u50	I hear the word "maybe" and then I agree with you. I asked what's going on with KEI. As with many government automation routes, this is likely to become a constant cash flow route and that you cannot stop because there is already so much money in it, while the expectation is that it will be able to generate money in the long term. Besides, we have to automate; I don't think anyone doubts that. So that's what I'm worried about. Next, I hear the sound that more room for quality in justice is needed. I'd like to respond to that. In my speech, I am now in the part where I make an explicit reference to this, so I would like to continue with my speech, so that Mr Voordewind can see if he can live with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u51	Perhaps Mr Recourt comes to the point, but my specific question is whether the PvdA is talking about a redistribution of the 20 million. For example, 5 million can be reserved for justice, while the other funds go to ICT.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u52	This depends on the government's response to the question of KEI's state of affairs. Whether it is necessary depends on the attitude of the cabinet. There are also financial concerns about justice in the region. Seven courts remain open. Well, that's good, but what are the cases dealt with there? Like the rest of the Chamber, I agree with the Minister that empty positions should not be financed. There is already room for manoeuvre and it will increase in the coming years. So that problem has to be solved. This solution takes time, firstly, and secondly, the willingness to move and thirdly, room for renewal. I ask the Minister to be present at the talks with the regional leaders and the Council for the justice to be done in the coming period. I ask him not to look at square meters: does he not only want to look at the 7 courthouses, but at all 32 locations? I'm asking the Minister to lay down the management of these locations at the National Real Estate Company. This is how you create space to deal efficiently with government buildings. For example, you create space for Assen to come up with solutions yourself. Thus, you separate the future and the quality of justice from the buildings that make up the justice system. I imagine, if you look at 32 buildings, there are a lot of square meters left of office space. This will save more money than has already been booked.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u53	Looks like everybody's waiting for everyone in this file. I remember well the General Political Reviews when Mr Samsom stood behind the speaker's seat. He said, "It doesn't feel right." All the mayors rebelled. He said, "Let's do it carefully." I hear Mr Recourt saying that we need to buy time. However, we all know how it will end: the debate on the courts has not taken place before the budgetary procedure and will not take place after the budgetary procedure. The Court of Justice will decide after tomorrow. Everyone knows what comes out of that; we don't have to play hide-and-seek about that. Yesterday we spoke with people from the Dutch Association for Justice. They said, "Give us more time; not a month, but just a year." That's $30 million. Would the PvdA like to join in this proposal of the NVvR? Buying time once costs 30 million, but then we can make a careful decision and we can solve this matter creatively and neatly, whatever Mr Recourt wants.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u54	Mr Oskam has indeed heard me say that I want more time. However, I want less time than what Mr Oskam asked for in his first term. He wants to wait for the evaluation. It will be ready in 2018 and then it will be 2019; then we will be four years further. That's too long. However, I have also heard very well the members of the NVvR who say they need a year. Whether it really takes a year, I don't know, and it doesn't cost $30 million. I'd like to have the quality discussion. What are you doing where? Do you want to deal with very specialised cases everywhere, or is there going to be a spread? I think that is realistic, but I want to separate it from those seven courts in the region. I hope that I have answered Mr Oskam's question sufficiently. In addition, I will continue on this subject in my contribution. I want to go beyond the discussion about the stones. Really bring justice to the citizen. Bring matters that are really important for a city or region, also to that city or region. Eindhoven has no court. Nevertheless, I can imagine that, if there is an important case for Eindhoven, it will be dealt with in the town hall. The case-law also considered this to be a good plan, as it turned out at the hearing. The practice, however, has proved to be unwieldy. A typical Frisian criminal case I tried together with colleague Jacobi to get to Friesland, but we got twice zero on the reekest. How are we gonna get this flexibility? How do we ensure that the quality of justice is restored? I refer to the Cohen report. The number of cases will decrease further in the coming years. Can the judges and prosecutors then catch their breath and carry out the Cohen report? As Mr Oskam said, the NVvR asked for time for proposals for renewal. I would like to support that request. I haven't heard anything about a $30 million price tag, by the way. I don't think that's necessary either. Everyone has to move to do so, so we have to start with those excess stones. My ideal is that we bring far fewer cases to justice, because we are increasingly able to resolve conflicts ourselves at an early stage. If we then need the judge, I want it to be invoked at an early stage of a conflict. There's still so much to improve. More about that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u55	The Disputes Committee on Consumer Affairs, I say quite frankly that I did not know about the existence of this body, and it turns out that it is a very noble body that prevents us from going to court. It's gonna be cut off.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u56	It won't be cut off. That Disputes Commission is largely financed by the market. It is good that Mr Pechtold interrupts me, because that saves me a bit of speaking time. I'm worried about that. As a consumer, you go to a dispute committee that is almost entirely paid by the other party. I don't think that's desirable. I want the government to continue to finance the dispute committees, even if only for a limited part. I don't want the government's contribution to be so large that it's more expensive to go to a dispute committee than to the ordinary judge. It must be a low-threshold, relatively advantageous supply. I fully agree with Mr Pechtold that killing this facility is a wonderful example of penny wise, pound foolish.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u57	I'm very happy with this hand-out. To my best knowledge, 20% is now funded by the government. Mr Recourt and I agree that it is fine that the sector should provide funding but that there should also be government control over its operation. You do that by co-financing. I believe that this cut amounts to 1 million, so it is not even a large sum. I hear Mr Recourt also say that we are not going to do that. Then I hope that if the cabinet itself does not move, we can table a motion together to persuade the cabinet to do so. I hear behind me there's support. The CDA is in on it, too. We're already with a whole group. I think we already have a majority. Can I have that firm commitment? Well, then we've got something back in, haven't we, Mr. Oskam? It's $1 million. Do we have it inside?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u58	As this whole cabinet period is a very different story than under Rutte I, I say just for the sake of completeness. You have the commitment in so far as I can say that the SP and GroenLinks have tabled an amendment to this effect which I am sympathetic to. However, I would like to await the answer of the cabinet. I'm not gonna judge until I know what's going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u59	Well, Mr. Chairman, that's back in!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u60	I note that Mr Pechtold is happy to return to his seat.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u61	I am very happy to hear this, because there is indeed a need to find a solution for the Disputes Committee. I have tried to listen carefully to Mr Recourt's words about justice close and maintaining quality. He is actually saying that these two points must be guaranteed. The NVvR presented a petition to the Lower House yesterday and also said that more resources are needed to do so. Is Mr Recourt prepared to look with the cabinet at how we can arrange this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u62	The answer to that question is very easy, because that is 'no'. I'll tell you why I'm answering that. First of all, money goes to justice. Secondly, it is expected that the number of cases will continue to decrease in the coming years. I have just asked the cabinet not to roam that immediately, but to let that organisation, which has had to work so incredibly under pressure in recent years, catch its breath, think about quality and then implement it. That's what we've had the Cohen committee for. We're gonna have to do that now. However, I do not think it is wise to open the money supply immediately, where I think you can still discuss that calculation. Again, organizations usually ask for more than is really necessary. I don't blame them on that point either.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u63	I find it unwise to submit a wish to the cabinet with an uncovered cheque. We have heard all the organisations here, including the Council of Justice. They also say: there has been countless years of savings on our organisation, now the measure is really full; if we want to maintain quality and the justice system close to it, then there will also have to be an investment and not the 20 million, because we cannot do it for that. Also in the last letter we received last weekend, it says that the KEI programme is lagging behind, so it will not happen so soon, and that the workload is increasing again. I can name the whole list again but when the PvdA has a wish here, she has to come to terms with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u64	Your question is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u65	I have already replied to this. I have to be honest with you about uncovered cheques... that I'd rather keep a mirror. That is not what we are doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u66	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u67	I go on and I announce that I am going through my time, but that is no objection to my group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u68	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u69	I was working on justice and innovation. I am very pleased that the case law itself is looking at how it can preserve international trade disappearing from the Netherlands. I think that's a nice piece of innovation, but I do have some concerns about that. Well, for example, that procedures can be offered in English, but what cannot be done is market forces in case law. Justice is an excellent public service. Then it cannot be possible, for example, to buy priority through a high registry law. Can the Minister reassure me in this respect? My second point is for the sake of time, because colleagues have already done so. A classic judicial approach, whereby a lawyer presents a problem to the judge, is necessary for a small part of the problems, but is unsuitable for dealing with problems in a truly structural way. To get you right in court, you have to make problems bigger instead of smaller. So in the core, it's a sickening system instead of self-healing. Trying to break this down sometimes, what is the situation with regard to the mediation proposals, Minister? In most cases, however, the vested interests are suffocated. Too often it is thought from the interests of organisations. The PvdA wants to break radically with that. We want all problems to be approached consistently from the interests of people, citizens. Minister, Secretary of State, allow yourself to be challenged. We want the government to be able to be challenged by default by people, by parties who pretend to have better solutions to the problems the government faces, starting with structural mediation in criminal law. The examination of my own initiative paper is awaiting funding. I ask the Minister if he can promise that mediation in criminal law will be structurally financed after the successful pilots. For it is so incredibly important to let people first see if they can resolve a conflict, not only to let the victim be a victim, but also to give it a role and a responsibility. Restoration law is the future. And then the values that are not valued on money, starting with the right to hope. Yesterday, the judge in Drenthe did not impose on the perpetrators of terrible murders for life because Dutch policy does not actually comply with human rights. Even the CDA and the VVD must be a thorn in the eye: shorter penalties rather than longer for terrible crimes because our regulations are not in order. The periodic review of people who have a life sentence must be carried out. The next of kin don't deserve a lower sentence than they wish for because the government doesn't have its business in order. The perpetrators do not deserve it because they have a right to hope and society does not deserve it because it benefits from appropriate punishments. In the area of administrative law, too, I see a problem with decentralisation, with regard to youth care, with regard to other matters, such as care for the elderly, but also with regard to existing issues such as the provision of a scooter. It is incredibly good that the government that is closest to citizens does so. But these are vulnerable people, who are also entitled to protection against that government. That's where things have gone too much lately. I hear more and more sounds in this vein. People disagree with a decision, go to an expensive legal aid provider who objects and then get an answer: you are too late, you should have done it earlier. It also happens that people start expensive procedures, but then it turns out that they do not oppose the decision, but that they have a complaint about its implementation. In short, there is a great lack of clarity in the social domain when it comes to legal protection. I would like the Minister to do something about this and see how the Awb can be adapted. The new decentralisations must also provide for legal protection so that people can go to court if they need to, but it is much more important to avoid conflicts with the government. When people object and say, "Hey, it's not going well here," the government needs to see what's going on and how this can be solved. I'm coming to civil law. The largest group of people who rely on the courts and legal aid are those who are divorced. It is precisely a divorce that lends itself to an old-fashioned legal trenches war because of the great emotions. There are far too many fighting divorces, with disastrous consequences for children and former partners themselves. This problem also needs to change its course of action; the current approach is not working. I myself have put forward proposals with others in the Chamber by means of own-initiative legislative proposals. There are many other ideas outside the Chamber about how to do better and how trenches can be avoided. Give these people a chance. I would ask the Minister to express a specific ambition: to reduce the number of divorces to 50% in five years as a divorce in conflict. I ask the Minister to be challenged by good plans. There's a lot of knowledge; I told you. Open the doors. Write out a "divorce challenge," to put it modern. Let the winner do it. More generally, I say, let yourself be structurally challenged as a government. Do not think in existing frameworks or in existing solutions. Capture the right to challenge in the Awb. My colleague Grace Tanamal picked up the stick with regard to local rights. Mr. Otwin van Dijk made it possible at the AWBZ. I want it in divorces. Let us conclude with a general right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u70	I do not understand Mr Recourt. What exactly does Mr Recourt want to achieve? Does he want the minister to prevent divorces or to ensure that there are at least 50% fewer divorces than they are now?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u71	No. If only the government could do that, that would be another challenge, although I think the SGP has already made proposals to reduce the number of divorces. What I want is this. There are divorces at odds. This means that the parties disagree and go to court. They are usually in battle and say: we have a big problem, solve it for us. There are also joint requests. That is what we are talking about, whether through mediation or not, if we have been able to come to an agreement. The judge will see if it's fair, hit it and put a stamp on it. Then it's done. I want the adversarial divorces before the judge to be reduced by half in five years. Then it does not help that we continue with the system we now have. It is often a juridized system, in which people are stimulated. In health care, too, you are often encouraged to be sicker than you are, because you want to be right. I can talk about it for a very long time, but I have to quit from the chairman. At least it has to be different and innovative.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u72	There will undoubtedly be another debate. What does Mr Recourt mean by challenge? Is it a challenge for the minister? Is it a challenge to society? Where does that challenge land?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u73	There are already a number of examples. I have a motion in preparation and I shall mention it there. I heard the D.O.D.'s pleading for a challenge the other day. There they said: Defence thinks in a certain direction, in a certain direction, but we know that there is a lot of knowledge at universities and at think tanks and such. We would like to bring them in to change and innovate. They've also written a challenge. I say to Mr Van Oosten: let us also challenge you. Bring in new knowledge. Do not always think that problems can be solved by doing more of the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u74	Mr Recourt spoke finely about fighting divorces. Earlier, I said fighting divorces were child abuse. There is a letter from the Minister of Justice which contains all kinds of proposals, but they have now been postponed. Does the PvdA support the CDA's motion, which calls for the special curator to be introduced? That gives the kids a special position. After all, people are allowed to go to court; you cannot deny that to people. It's about someone who really takes care of the child alone. You make sure that a directing judge is introduced everywhere and that there is no more shopping in the courtroom. And you're also willing to do something about the addition system. That could have happened a long time ago, but that is what your government is waiting for. So now please take action instead of another new idea!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u75	In any case, I appreciate the approach and ambition of the CDA. In that sense, it's a challenge. It's just not so much the side I mean. Mrs Keijzer is looking for a solution in court, but that is too far in the system as far as I am concerned. I want to prevent people from going rolling down the street at the expense of the children at all. You need to put in much earlier in the process of divorce knowledge. How do you prevent people from arguing? That's what I want to achieve.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u76	That's good. But what I see happening is that there is a positive response to that immediately. Then we'll talk about it again. The CDA's concrete proposal is to give a special curator at least at the time when people end up with a judge, and that is where a marriage has to be dissolved. The child or the children from that relationship in which people have once been very happy, so that they can really look at the best interests of that child. Then I find the PvdA by my side?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u77	I am not yet responding to this very specific proposal. I'd have to figure that out right now, but I'm not. Besides, I'm not a spokesperson. But for the sake of the child, and in general, the CDA obviously has our support in legal aid. Mrs Keijzer mentioned that a lot of proposals have been made to better organise this in the case of divorce.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u78	I also felt challenged by Mr Recourt's remarks. A year ago, we got the report from the Children's Ombudsman. Mrs Keijzer pointed out that divorces are actually child abuse. She has also put that very prominently on the agenda. But how do we prevent the subject from running away again? Mr Recourt has already indicated that he is not actually the spokesman on the whole subject. Then there comes a bit to the front that gets stuck again; we see nothing else happen to it. How do we ensure that the urgency we all feel about this subject also leads to real steps?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u79	One element is already at issue in the Chamber, namely the specific representation of children in the courts. So that's what's going on. My plea is to look at how we can solve the problems much sooner rather than at the end of the day with the judge. I hope that I can also get the support of Mr Van der Staaij. The justice system, the funnel to the judge, is not the right system for that. You have to go the other way; you have to get people into a mode where they come to solutions and not to fight. That's exactly what you need to know from outside. In the meantime, I know that there is an enormous amount of knowledge; I run a lot of meetings on divorces. Experts have very good initiatives and ideas. Let's tap into that knowledge and get it into the Justice Department and into this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u80	That's a very good point. I wholeheartedly support that. We've talked about that before. But that also means, in fact, that there is a very important task for the municipalities, including the Youth and Family Centres, and for the parents. If you really want to get there early, you also need to look at the low-threshold and early offer of help, especially in order to strengthen relationships and to prevent things from getting into trouble.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u81	I couldn't agree more. For example, I have heard a proposal that says: let's not finance legal aid now, but let's just make a play. People can see for themselves if they need a lawyer. But maybe they need a relationship therapist or a trial counselor or one I know. We need to look in a much more creative way at what external expertise can be hired at an early stage and then we need to have it funded by the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u82	Mr Recourt raised an important point. We see divorces becoming divorces more and more often. Rutte I has removed the relationship mediation from the basic package of care. We are not going to have a debate on care here, but it is touching on this issue. Will the Labour Party consider whether we could get the relationship mediation back into the basic package, or whether we could place it with municipal authorities such as the CJGs?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u83	I'm watching to tell my care colleagues what to do. I have just said in reply to a question by Mr Van der Staaij that you can, for example, throw the means of legal aid into that pot. People hire a couple's therapist instead of a lawyer. I think that's one way to possibly get out of this challenge. That's why I'm saying, government, let yourself be challenged and get that knowledge out of the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u84	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u85	I have one more point. Again this year I am pleading for a different funding in the case of problems in the area of justice. When you start with money, the organizations involved are gonna hang in the balance and think about their interests. You have to start with the ideal situation. Think together what the ideal solution is and then put the money in it. Then you come to a much better bet of money. So no more case financing per organization, but chain financing. I would like to say this, and I believe I say this for the second or third time in a row, that this is being done, for example, in the area of neighborly quarrels. I am therefore considering tabling a motion on this point. It could be better, but for that we have to go off the beaten roads. I have so much ambition to divide justice and security better in the Netherlands: cabinet, take over!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u86	I understand that Mr Recourt has the floor on the subject of asylum and not Mrs Kuik. Hence my question to him. I just heard a brief debate with Mr Voordewind about the government's plan, or at least the idea of moving next year to stop housing refugees; instead, men in particular are thought to be sent out on the streets with some money per day. It's an extremely bizarre idea. Doesn't that have to do with the fact that this government is simply not in control of these refugee flows? Shouldn't that just motivate the PvdA to get this government to do what I asked for, namely finally make a real assessment and calculate how much money you need to avoid that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u87	I asked the same question, so we agree. Government is forward-looking, and if you know that there's going to be about 58,000 people next year, you have to think about how to take it in a structured way. Then you have to figure out how much money that takes. I asked that question and we discussed it earlier in the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u88	Then I am pleased to note that, in accordance with my request, we are getting a letter of amendment today with the financial translation of all these consequences in the areas of housing, education, care and benefits. Or isn't that the point?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u89	As I have already had an exchange of views with one of my fellow Members in this debate, I do not know which one it was. If you get an estimate of the number of people expected yesterday, you can't have coverage for that today. That has even been changed in the General Financial Reviews. Then the Minister of Finance said that he would return to the Navy note. I have also said that it must be done. Accounting can do the same, because it remains an uncertain situation. I repeat myself with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u90	Thank you, Mr Recourt, for your contribution. I see you again at the interrupting microphone, Mrs Keijzer, but we are doing two-way interruptions, and this point has already been discussed at length. Perhaps we can come back to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u91	Then I have a point of order. When I stood behind the chair, I said: do you want to talk about the refugee issue in a real way, do you have to know how many people you are talking about and what the financial consequences are?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u92	That's the point you made.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u93	I notice that the PvdA is also running away from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u94	This is not a point of order, Mrs Keijzer. I am very sorry, but this was not a point of order. That makes it difficult to allow it if you want to make a point of order next time. I call Mr Marcouch.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u95	Mr. Chairman. I said you can't live in fear in this place last year. I was thinking about that sad man in Amsterdam New-West who was so terrorized by his neighbor boys that he didn't even dare to go into his own garden anymore. I was thinking of threatened mayors, yelling at Jews, assaulted gays and spit on Muslims. And yes, I also thought of the mother who feared her son would travel to Syria. Now Paris buries its victims of terror, the German footballers do not dare to play in Hanover and in Brussels is quiet all the time including the metro and including the schools. We are in danger of being paralyzed by terrorism. We must find a way of dealing with fear, starting with keeping the danger of Salafism in the ropes. Salafists offer jihad warriors the ideology for their bloodlust. I miss this insight in the reports of the AIVD and NCTV. Our information services recently presented Salafism last September as a fragmented minority with a spectrum of subfluxes. Honestly, it struck me as naivety. Can the Minister tell us if our intelligence services see the danger of Salafism as a portal to the jihad? Forget the supposed long arms from Morocco and Turkey. Notice the gripping long fingers from Saudi Arabia that use their glossy sharp nails to penetrate our children's bedrooms, which through the mobile screens beckon our adolescents to the recruiters lurking around the mosque. I expect a proposal on how we can tackle this totalitarian power ideology called salafism with better ideas. I want to see how our intelligence and investigation services track down and disarm these recruiters. It's a matter of investing. I saw with interest that the Moroccan intelligence services pointed France the way to a wanted terrorist. Can the Minister tell us whether, and if so how, we in the Netherlands are stepping up cooperation with the Moroccan intelligence services? With the recently adopted motion - Samsom/Zijlstra, the Lower House asked the government "to give greater priority to the prosecution of inciting hatred, discrimination and violence, to combat radicalisation and terrorism." That motion was adopted yesterday and I would very much like to hear from the Minister how he is going to implement this motion. What helps is European cooperation against the arms trade. Terrorists use kalashnikovs, like the assassins at liquidations and motorcycle clubs, as unified order services of the underworld. These are the kalashnikovs from Eastern Europe that we find in large numbers during police raids. These are clearly easily available. How is the Minister going to make a serious effort to combat them effectively and to force a joint fight against arms trafficking at European level? How's the Minister gonna take care of that? The mayors will thank him for that. They deserve help. Two mayors are now given the opportunity to put together special teams that come behind the front door of the families around jihad warriors, across the floor of the brothers and sisters to prevent them from making the same fatal mistake as their bigger brother or sister. The jihadism intervention team, the JIT I mentioned in my motion, with deradicalization experts, aid workers, youth coaches and others working customized. The Minister promises a pilot with two JITs. How far along is he with that? Those who say capillaries say mayors and also district agents. The neighborhood cop balances between the long bar and the big ears. What happens when neighborhood agents are missing, I've been through surveillance in the Paris suburbs. We drove into the banlies at night in a van with heavily armed young cops. Contact with the population was forbidden. That ban was superfluous, because the people had long been hiding when the vans came in. No one there says the government is ours, too. Or: the police are ours, too. And: the police want to protect us from criminals and radicals who plague us. No one came to the police to report what crime he had seen or what violence he suffered, not even at the police station that was located as a bunker 40 kilometers away.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u96	I hear admirable words from the PvdA about fighting salafism. Now there has been a discussion in this Chamber for some time about whether these people are allowed into the army. How does the PvdA look at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u97	If I am not mistaken, a motion was passed yesterday. As far as I am concerned, people who adhere to such an ideology are not welcome to the army or to the police. I believe that a motion has been tabled on this subject and we have also supported it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u98	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u99	I have one more question about the neighborhood cop. In the past, we have tabled an amendment on this subject together with the Labour Party and the SP. It says that every 5,000 inhabitants have to be just one district cop. Now I'm tasting from the Ministry's reaction a little bit the tendency to say: we can't fill that out exactly for every municipality; there's room to move within the regional units. Do you agree with the original interpretation of the amendment, namely that it is really intended that every 5,000 inhabitants within a municipality are entitled to a district agent and that there are not all kinds of escapes in it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u100	My group is truly convinced that we must not interfere with the area-based police, the 'close to' police, whose district agent is a symbol. As far as I'm concerned, that neighborhood cop has to be there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u101	So no possibilities to slide within the units, but first make sure you meet the standard of 1 in 5,000 and then distribute it flexibly?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u102	Exactly. That's a deal. As far as my group is concerned, that was at the time when the discussion was about the new Police Act and the reorganisation of the police, one of the cornerstones, namely territoriality and proximity, in which the district agent plays a key role. It needs to be guaranteed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u103	That is indeed a promise that has not yet been fulfilled, that district agent on 5,000 inhabitants. Mr Marcouch called the district agent the "close to" agent. I see him at a far-away distance. The neighborhood agents who mail me will also have received e-mails from Mr Marcouch: I do not get my duties as a district agent, because I am in reception centres. Or: I'm dealing with roster pressure. Or: I have to work on new government priorities. What will the PvdA do to ensure that the district agent can actually do what he is so good at, namely stand in society and know what is going on behind the front door?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u104	I don't just call the neighborhood cop. I am describing the French banlieus as a nightmare, as an example of how things should not be done here, precisely to highlight the role and importance of the district agent and to press the Minister not to change this. The district agent must have the opportunity to be a district agent and actually be in the capillaries of society. This calls for personal presence, for investment in trust, in contact with your area of work, to eventually acquire the most important capital that the police have, namely information. Otherwise, you can't be those big ears. As far as my group is concerned, that is not a matter for discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u105	Then Mr Marcouch did not actually hear the stories of the workplace. When I talk to cops, I hear they can't get to the district agency at all. The police unions and the central works council both sent a letter of fire to the Chamber. They write: they need more agents, but this cabinet cuts 2,000 fte off the street. I would very much like a statement from the Labour Party that she is investing in agents instead of pulling agents away from the streets.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u106	There have to be as many cops on the street as possible, first and foremost the district agents. Of course, I hear complaints. That is also why I would like to emphasise how important we are and how important it is that the district agent should also be a district agent. Where things aren't working out yet, the Minister needs to improve it. I don't recognize the image of cops being taken off the streets. The basic agreement with this cabinet is that there are 49,500 agents. If Mrs. Kooiman agrees with me, she will see that we have over 1,000 agents more than we agreed on in the base. We'll keep it until the election. I would like to remind the SP Group that there will be a story about more agents in the election programmes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u107	Mr Marcouch spoke of salafism. Just now there was a brief interruption by Mrs Keijzer on this subject. I ask Mr Marcouch why he puts all the salafists on the same footing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u108	Salafism is salafism. I think that's an evil ideology. People who seek polarisation and violence, who consider themselves ideologically superior to other people, have no business with services such as the police or with the Defense Department.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u109	I would like to remind Mr Marcouch of a letter from his party colleague, Louis Asscher, to the Chamber about the fact that salafism is a fragmented vision and that there are many differences. That letter distinguishes three forms of salafism. Mr Marcouch says: they are all the same to me. How does his expression relate to the letter written by his own minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u110	Mr Kuzu did not listen very carefully. So I don't agree with that analysis. I find it rather naive to assume that salafism is not an evil ideology. I think Salafism is the gateway to jihadism, to violent jihadism. In this sense, it is dangerous and it must be combated. In an open, free society, we do the same with better ideas. The analysis in the letter in which that fragmentation is expressed does not do justice to the view I have on Salafism. Mr. Chairman. I was talking about the French banlieus. The police lacked the basic working capital. What's that? That's information. For that, we need accessible district agents who know how to live up to the trust of the residents. We must not go to the other extreme now. The neighborhood cop works at the mercy of the detective who hunts down jihadrons and other criminals and takes them out of the neighborhood. What about the quality of the detectives? Are detectives adequately trained and trained? Professionalism creates confidence, the confidence of the people that the police are going through the fire for her. The police are in danger of losing this confidence at a rapid rate and need to re-establish confidence. I'll mention four things. Firstly, by working on integrity in the police organisation, especially after the fear of the mole in the organisation. Secondly, by intervening in the case of discrimination at home, so that the humiliation of colleagues stops with a colour. Thirdly, by working area-oriented, i.e. by attracting specialized agents who function in the best possible way per district. Agent Roberto in the Bijlmer, Agent Jan in Breda and Agent Hussein in the Schilderswijk; agents with access to worlds that remain closed to others. That is also good against ethnic profiling, or ethnic profiling. Agents with specific expertise see who is good and who is bad and do not have to keep a whole category per color. Fourthly, by prosecuting the perpetrators of discrimination, such as the houseboater who recently called for mosques to be set on fire. I continue to draw attention to the persecution of the perpetrators of discrimination. Here too, I am fighting for the professionalisation of the police. So taking good care of the police goes far beyond the regulation of ICT. First of all, it means good training. The police officers come in good condition from the Police Academy, but then the police department allows them to physically neglect themselves. That could be fatal for cops who have to decide within a second what they see when rumbling at a car door. Is it someone who lost his car keys or an armed carcracker?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u111	It is good that Mr Marcouch knows exactly where he is going with the police. I know that there is a vacancy, but perhaps it is good to talk again about the 138 million that the Minister makes available to the police and legal aid. We do not know how the amount will be distributed, but we will find out later. My question is: what does Mr Marcouch's plans cost to make the police better and stronger and to make them work in accordance with the PvdA's ideas?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u112	My colleague Mr Recourt has already said how pleased we are with the extra 250 million for safety. Some of them are reserved for the police. I was not in the debate on this, but in the debate on the re-evaluation of the police organisation. At the same time, extra money was allocated to this organisation, in which, as far as I am concerned, we should also pay attention to the training of agents. As far as I'm concerned, that's out of the budget. It is not always a question of extra money, but often also of setting priorities and emphasis.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u113	That wasn't my question. We all welcome the Minister's 250 million. Of these, 138 million are for the police. Some of it is intended for legal aid, but we do not yet know exactly how it is distributed; we still need to hear it. There's also a lot of things we don't want to have to do with, including the police-cao. Mr Marcouch's plans to improve the police and give priority to matters such as discrimination, ethnic profiling, the district agent and the quality of the detectives cost money. That's what the 138 million is for. How much of the 138 million does Mr Marcouch want to invest in these quality injections?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u114	I'd like to give the Cabinet the room to see what's needed with the police organization. I think it's important that it happens. Money for training and training is also included in the police budget. I hope that the collective bargaining process is not just about more pay, but also about the quality of the police, because in the end it is also in the interests of the police themselves that they are well trained and trained.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u115	It is noble that Mr Marcouch speaks about diversity in the police and that he identifies the so important theme of ethnic profiling in the Chamber. However, I can remember that Mr Marcouch has been doing this for years. In 2011 he asked in writing about the diversity within the police. It has been replied that this is no longer recorded. However, it is well known that the influx of migrant groups at the Police Academy is incredibly low. What does Mr Marcouch propose to do to improve this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u116	Indeed, I have been calling attention to this for a long time, and I will not stop until I see that this is an automatism in the police organisation. This means quite specifically that I ask the Minister to get to work on recruitment and to give priority to it. It will not have escaped Mr Kuzu that the police leadership now considers it important to do so. I urge them to keep doing this. This is very important for the effectiveness of the police.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u117	That's the problem. Mr Marcouch has been calling for five years. That's barking and not biting. He's been doing this for five years, but I think he's also very aware of his position as a coalition partner and the opportunities he has. As far as I am concerned, not only should it be encouraged, there must also be a specific objective. What does this encouragement from Mr Marcouch mean for the use of the cabinet? Can we expect anything from that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u118	People speak and talk and dogs bark; I cast this far from me. We have recently adopted a constructive attitude with other parties. We have passed motions. There's a police plan to shape that recruitment. We are working, but I believe that it is urgent and that it must be done at a rapid pace. Until it happens, I'll keep following this. As long as I am not reassured, it is enough and ready and goes on my own, I will continue to argue for this. Taking good care of the police also requires investing in agents, including their physical vitality. That is, of course, a matter of training, but also of appreciation. I call on the Minister, and through him also the corps leadership, to appreciate policemen who by themselves are doing a great deal for their physical vitality in working conversations. This has to come back in one of those conversations. Policemen will then be inspired to do this on their own. So not only the mandatory trainings, but also what policemen do on their own, should be appreciated. I was with Mrs. Kooiman in East Brabant last week. We took part in the training there for a whole day. We have shot and trained arrest techniques in difficult circumstances. Hats off to the instructors and the people who are being trained. We noticed that hundreds of agents come to that remote training centre to train and practice, but that there is no cafeteria, for example. I know this is the choice of the police department, but isn't that exemplary for the neglect of cops? If we're gonna take care of cops, we're gonna have to do it literally. Will the Minister respond to that? How does this take care of cops in front of him? I'm closing up. My colleague has already said a few things about refugees, but I would like to address two more points, namely the special protection of children and immigrants (lesbians, homosexuals, bisexuals and transgenders) in the reception centres. I'll start with the kids. This week, a motion was adopted by members of GroenLinks and the Christian Union asking the government to give priority to families with children in emergency care. A number of organisations have expressed concerns about this. They have called for this to be done properly. I would like to stress once again that my group believes it is important that children do not move from one crisis shelter to another. Children should be given as much priority as possible: children first. How will the Secretary of State carry out this motion? Mr. Chairman. Then the lht'ers. I spoke to Arab gays this weekend, gathered by the interest organization Secret Garden that is committed to the Arab gays. These gays claim to have fled both the war and the intolerant culture. And now they are placed in the Netherlands in the midst of the same intolerant culture. They say that they are heavily harassed and do not dare to press charges and very often do not give COA and police at home if they do want to press charges. As far as my group is concerned, that is unacceptable. I call on the Secretary of State and the Minister to respond appropriately. The COA must make it clear by living rules what is acceptable and not in multilingualism, so also where this sensitive issue is concerned. In a refugee centre where refugees rely on the escorts and the COA, there should always be a possibility to report such intimidations and crimes. It's supposed to be in a civilisation that the victim isn't put away in a safe house but the unsub is locked up in a cell.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u119	This trajectory has been going on for a long time. Secret Garden is also well known to me and foundation Gave has the same mention as regards the Christians who are threatened by Muslims in the azc's. A report has been prepared on this subject which contains recommendations. One of these recommendations was not taken up by the Secretary of State and it concerns the appointment of an independent confidential person, to whom people can report without feeling that their case is being adversely affected. Do you think the PvdA would feel that way?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u120	We are always in favour of a pragmatic solution. I understand that there will be a hearing soon on how to solve these problems. A confidant, someone whose people know they don't condemn them because they are who they are, can be one of the solutions. Ultimately, if criminal acts are committed in an azc, people must be able to rely on the authority of COA, police and justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u121	Mr. Chairman. What weighs about half a kilogram, contains holes and gives everyone headaches? Answer: the budget of the Ministry of Security and Justice. Unfortunately, I'm just gonna say right away. The previous minister had to leave, this minister looks away, and that brings me straight to the criticism that my group has of the budget for next year. There are structural financial deficits in the police, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the judiciary. There is still no idea of improving performance in the criminal justice chain and insufficient understanding of the financial risks of the policy. The formation of a National Police should be completed in 2017. It is now clear that this is not going to work and that the delay costs about EUR 230 million. The Minister acknowledges that this is an assessment and that the amount may also change. With such a remark, you expect two things. Firstly, that the Minister is motivated by the financial risks and secondly, if those risks arise, by whom they are taken up. But unfortunately, none of that. My group believes that the costs of delaying the reorganisation should not be borne by the police themselves. Is the Minister prepared to guarantee that despite all the investigations announced? The Minister put that hot potato in front of him in the letter of 6 October. He did the same in the letter of 20 November last, merely stating that in due course an investigation will be carried out into the financial feasibility of the outline note on detection which he himself proposed. According to Deputy Chief of Staff, Mr Bik already needs EUR 30 million in the short term in order to comply with the initial measures of the contour note, up to EUR 200 million in terms of wage scales. In addition, new tasks are constantly being asked for in this police capacity. There are the recommendations of the Hoekstra Committee, more attention should be paid to victims and 80 terrorist investigations are under way. All nice and nice, but it costs money and capacity. However, you do not hear the Minister about this and certainly not about keeping up with what has been achieved in the field of ICT. The Minister wants to see his MEOS parade-horse succeed, don't he? In short, the re-examination plan for the police already has holes that cannot be closed with the 250 million that the minister has gathered. In addition, the 250 million will have to cover much more holes than the police alone. Think about the D.A.'s office, for example. In addition to the additional budget cut of 52 million, the Public Prosecutor's Office is increasingly under increasing pressure. As early as spring 2013, it was clear that this austerity is not feasible without the work being affected. The Galan Group has been investigating whether the Public Prosecutor's Office is on track to carry out the cuts. Perhaps the Minister hoped that the harsh conclusion would not stand out if he sent the report to the Chamber during the throne speech, but unfortunately. In short and in plain Dutch: there are too many tasks and there is too little money. Here, too, there must be money, about 51 million, or the cuts must run over a longer period of time. The Minister's reaction is not surprising. He's holding on to the planned austerity. The Public Prosecutor's Office is therefore facing another year in which it has to come to the other side on a loose cord without tears, but fear not, the Minister's outstretched hand is still valid. There's only a small tip, 15 million from 2016 or: far too little. And that while one of the conclusions of the Galan Group is that in the current context 2015 and in particular 2016, the public prosecutor can come through very difficult with a balanced budget. Then I come to the final part of the criminal justice chain: the judiciary. Even if seven sites are closed, which my group strongly opposes, there will be a structural deficit of 32 million per year from 2020. We have all just heard that there is no funding for empty spaces, but even if those buildings were to be closed, that would only yield 19 million. Here too, the Minister is showing himself on his greedy side. There will be an additional amount of 20 million in 2016 and 25 million from 2017. But that amount must be spent on KEI, the Quality and Innovation Justice Programme. As the Court of Auditors has said more or less, the Minister attaches great importance to ICT as a medicine for everything. In the progress letter on the KEI programme of 23 November, the Minister also acknowledges this, because it literally states that there should be more prioritisation, even if it is possible to process digitally in civil proceedings in mid-2016 without mandatory process representation. My group therefore has a hard head: the government and ICT are not a happy combination. In any case, the amount is too low to keep the courthouses open. That is certainly not in the spirit of my motion, which was adopted unanimously years ago. It stated that there should be canton justice in all courtrooms. I tabled that motion in the context of the revision of the judicial card, because locations closed at that time. Then you should not close down locations and say: at the locations that remain open, the canton justice remains. Then you can close them all down. That is certainly not in the spirit of my motion. The Minister knows that too, because he was there himself. Not only in terms of finances, weeping is not enough; performance in the criminal justice chain has not been demonstrably improved, despite a very critical report by the General Court of Auditors in 2013. That was two years ago. There was a programme for strengthening criminal justice chain performance, but so far it has not improved, let alone strengthened. In fact, three and a half years later, the Minister has not yet set objectives. This means that it is still unclear what is expected of the police, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the judiciary. Then how is the Chamber supposed to control the Minister at this point? Last week we had a debate on terrorism, following the terrible attacks in Paris. In last year's budget debate, I tabled a motion of censure against the Minister on behalf of my group because he refused to close the borders for jihadists returning to the Netherlands. And what does the VVD do in 2015? It shall file a motion for the purpose of criminalising voluntary residence in IS territory. My group's position, which will not be surprising, has not changed: borders close to returners and administrative detention for those who are already back. The attacks in Paris show that something must change, insofar as it was not clear after the attack on Charlie Hebdo. Cops aren't designated to take out terrorists. That's what the Special Interventions Service (DSI) is for. But cops are often the first ones on the scene. Their job is to observe and then transfer. My group hears disturbing noises about this from various quarters. The training and the service weapon are not suitable to cope with such situations pending the arrival of the special teams. Agents are taught to stay in place and seek cover, but terrorists do not stand still. This goes against the so-called three-second rule of defense: every three seconds you have to move, because if you sit still, you won't have a chance. The policeman is a sitting duck, as they call it so beautiful. In doing so, the weapons and ammunition of the police are intended to take out an attacker in the event of a storm at a reasonable distance. A terrorist with a bulletproof vest and a kalashnikov therefore has little to fear from the police, from a cop who has to do it with much less protection. We all know the phrase "Never bring a knife to a gun fight," but that's actually what we let our agents do. Let there be no misunderstanding: as far as my group is concerned, it is the Special Intervention Service that must take out terrorists. However, it cannot be the case that, in the meantime, the agents have to manage with the current resources. Why aren't more cops trained to handle heavier weapons? These weapons can remain available in the car or at the station, so patrolling is not even necessary. In the event of an attack, it will be possible to act more quickly and from a greater and therefore safer distance. Agents can frustrate things until the DSI arrives, at least from a distance. This is necessary not only in the case of terrorism, but also in the case of fast drug shipments, such as those that are so well-known, and liquidations involving the shooting of agents with kalashnikovs. And what about the robbery on Brinks? Is the secretary for the security of the agents and is he going to do something with this? I like to hear it. I'm rounding up. Last year, in the budget debate, I said that we should hope that in a year's time we will not be standing here with the debris of our criminal justice chain. A year later, unfortunately, it starts to look like that. Let me finish by quoting a quote. "I wouldn't know where any more money can be found, new cuts are not justified, money needs to be added in the future rather than off." It will not surprise those present that this is a quote from the MP Van der Steur. I fully agree with that. And let that now be Minister Van der Steur! In conclusion, there will be money, but as far as my group is concerned, that is far too little. In addition, income is also uncertain and we do not yet know the outcome of the collective agreement negotiations. It again resembles the trick of former minister Opstelten with the money found in "the caverns of the ministry" or "an old sock." The 250 million found should at least have been net and should have been spent on the criminal chain, on the police, on the Public Prosecutor's Office and on the judiciary. It will therefore not surprise anyone that my group will be voting against the budget of the Ministry of Security and Justice for next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u122	Mr. Chairman. This budget debate is a good time to consider all the damage this cabinet is doing. In the area of immigration and asylum, this damage is truly unprecedented. The borders remain wide open and the influx of asylum seekers breaks all records. This year, more asylum seekers have already arrived until October than in 2014 and 2013. Then, of course, asylum-seekers' centres shoot out of the ground like mushrooms. The cabinet has promised to always make money for that, no matter how lucky there are. According to the EU, many more asylum seekers will come to Europe next year than this year. And because the cabinet does not do anything and does not want to do anything, the asylum system in the Netherlands will be even worse than we have experienced this year. This is, of course, inconceivable, now that everyone sees that our country has long since been unable to cope with the ongoing asylum disaster. It's the PVV a thorn in the eye. Our country is being given away in high-speed train traffic. Our culture, prosperity and security are being thrown too gibberish like it's nothing. The PVV keeps calling to turn the tide, and that's what I'm doing again. Now finally close the Dutch borders and no asylum seeker will allow. The need to do so is particularly great. I am of course also referring to the issue of safety. It is precisely in this area that the cabinet and this Secretary of State have shown a naivety that is unprecedented. It has always been said that it is unlikely that terrorists will ride with the flow of refugees. It is now clear that at least two of the Islamic butchers who lived in Paris have entered Europe in this way. Does the Secretary of State recognize that he's misjudged this? Can he abandon his naivety about terrorists in the flow of refugees as quickly as possible? I would like to hear a response, because the trivialisation of problems is quite dangerous. The PVV has always warned that terrorists hitch a ride in the refugee stream. That also makes sense, because then they don't have to show any passport or papers. Asylum seekers are always allowed in without papers. They'll never be returned. It can't be easier and more anonymous, even if you take the plane to Schiphol, for example. In this way, without papers and without passports, almost 12,000 asylum seekers have already arrived this year. In the Netherlands alone, to be understood! So thousands of strangers are allowed into our country whose Secretary of State has no idea who they are and what they're doing here. Doesn't the Secretary of State think that's totally irresponsible? The Secretary of State has completely lost control. This is also apparent from the answers to the actual questions raised by my group. We asked how many asylum seekers have committed a crime in the Netherlands. The answer was: I don't know. We asked how often foreigners' residence permits are withdrawn because of a crime committed. Again, the answer was: I don't know. We also asked how often false passports or incorrect documents are found in residence applications. The Secretary of State doesn't know this either. We asked how often asylum seekers bring partners or family members to the Netherlands on average. There is no indication of this either. We asked how often rejected asylum seekers submit other asylum applications on average. Here, too, the answer was: we don't know. This can't be happening, can it? This proves that the cabinet has no idea what it is doing, that it does not know how big the problems really are. How is this possible, is my pressing question. Is it incompetence, is it powerless, or is it really okay with the cabinet that no one knows about the true nature of mass immigration? What doesn't know, what doesn't bother, the cabinet might think. In any case, it shows that action must be taken very quickly. To the most important question on the most important issues, the Secretary of State can no longer say: I do not know it myself either. Stop mopping, stop mopping and keep wet and stop the asylum influx. With the latter, stopping the asylum influx, unfortunately we are not there yet. For the many admitted asylum seekers will yield great follow-up invaders. And of course this happens with the well-known snowball effect of partner and family migration. Migrants who get a residence permit can bring multiple partners to the Netherlands in a row. Their children can also be brought here, who in turn will bring partners to the Netherlands, and so on. In this way, mass immigration runs even outside the asylum influx to total out of the claws. To understand what awaits us, we need to look at how this went, for example, with the Moroccan community in the Netherlands. At the end of the migrant workers' scheme, according to the Central Bureau of Statistics, there were some 27.000 Moroccans in the Netherlands. This relatively small group grew mainly through partner and family migration to the no less than 380,000 people that the Moroccan community now counts. This snowball effect is now, of course, threatening to happen with the Syrians, the Eritreans and all the other groups that the cabinet let in as an asylum seeker. That nightmare scenario must not, of course, be allowed to happen to the cabinet. That is why I ask the Secretary of State what he is doing to combat this partner and family migration. The PVV wants people from Islamic countries no longer to be admitted as part of this regular immigration. Otherwise, the evil Islamization of our country will continue with gas, which we must, of course, stop. It is incomprehensible that the cabinet has not even made the slightest start in tackling this partner and family migration, knowing that this will only make the immigration disaster worse. The cabinet doesn't think it's a problem that there's not even a limit on the number of partners someone can bring from their country of origin to the Netherlands. Besides, marriage isn't even necessary for that. The term "marriage migration" is therefore misplaced. And you certainly don't have to start with training requirements and such. So in this area, too, the cabinet continues to spread residence permits. The lack of action of the cabinet is, of course, terrible, but it is very bad if this is cleared up with weird fairy tales. Unfortunately, this is happening more and more often and the PVV also wants to take advantage of this debate to put an end to this deception. Hopefully, the Secretary of State will cooperate. Let's start with the fairy tale that asylum seekers come to the Netherlands for their safety. That is not the case, because they were safe long before they came here, for example in Turkey or in all the European countries they visited before they came to the Netherlands. It is the lucky seekers who are here not about security but about the money, the benefits, the houses and all the other beautiful things they get thrown into the lap of this cabinet. Can the Secretary of State just acknowledge that? I come to the fairy tale of the highly educated Syrians who would come here. The director of the COA recently claimed that as many as two thirds of Syrians are highly educated. Reality is different. The reality is that two thirds of Syrians are on welfare. In Germany it has been established that the vast majority of Syrians should be considered illiterate. In that light, it would be very coincidental if our country, on the other hand, had all the nanotechnologists and heart surgeons. Without hard proof on the part of the cabinet, this must not therefore be claimed, not even by the services for which this State Secretary is responsible. I'd like a clear response. As a result, I ask the Secretary of State to distance himself from the myth that immigration is good for the economy. Please admit that this is not the case and that immigration costs us a lot of money. This has been proven very often, among other things by the Central Planning Bureau, NYFER, the Scientific Council for Government Policy and so on. It helps if the cabinet is honest about this and says that immigration is harmful to our economy and our welfare state. Also, admit that immigration can never be a solution to the ageing population. That's one of those persistent myths. Years ago, the Dutch Interdisciplinary Demographic Institute has already made it scientifically chopped up. It has been shown that if you want to use immigration to combat the ageing population, you must have admitted more than 100 million migrants in the year 2100. If we talk seriously about migration as a solution to ageing, we are a long way away. But if, for example, this nonsense is being helped by the EU in the world, it is never being fought by the cabinet. That's how the lies win, and that has to stop. I'll come to a conclusion. I would like to point out that the PVV group, as my colleague Helder has just indicated, will vote against the budget for security and justice. This is, of course, also due to the enormous cost of asylum reception. These costs are unacceptable to the PVV because we have to stop receiving asylum seekers. They can be taken care of in their own region.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u123	Mr. Chairman. It's a mess budget. That was the budget presented to us from Security and Justice on Princess Day. A mess! That conclusion was widely shared in the Chamber after the General Political Reviews two months ago. It's a hole cheese, even worse than in recent years, and it's pretending nothing happened: no series of mistakes in homicide, no receipt from Cees H., no more 230 million in red tape costs with the police, no 600 million in loans from Finance, no setbacks in real estate and ICT, no queues at the Dutch Forensic Institute and the probation, no red figures in the justice system, no chanceless legislative proposals, no alarming report on the Public Prosecutor's Office. Today, another 5 million will be added: the ICT project Radar. Even the Chamber has been misinformed. Like none of that was and isn't on the agenda. As if the budget of V and J did not need any correction, repair or even adjustment. Do you know, Chairman, what would have happened if the VVD and PvdA cabinet had a majority in both chambers? Then the cheese budget would have just remained the budget. It wouldn't have moved a comma. The opposition was needed to get the cabinet moving, as well as with the problems in the security services. Just like with the D.O.D. problems. That is a painful observation for a party that in campaign time is full of bus booths full of raging lyrics about more blue on the street, the treatment of criminals and harsher punishments. That party, the VVD, tried for five years to ignore the accumulation of problems in the police, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the judiciary, while the performance of the justice chain gave every reason to make a big effort. 55% of the reported crime is not arrested by the police. The clearing rate has been varying for years between 25 and 27. Only 19% of the outstanding custodial sentences were implemented in the last year. 19%! That doesn't cheer you up when you've been robbed, when your car or your bike has been stolen or, worse yet, someone around you has been murdered. This gives people the feeling that crime pays off in the Netherlands. Or, as a former judge said in EenVandaag: criminal is a low-risk profession in the Netherlands. Criminally in the Netherlands is a low-risk profession; this must be taken into account by this minister. What people want and what victims ask are not big words or empty promises. No analyses or validations. People are right to expect us to just catch bad guys. "Strike for those who deserve punishment," I quote those orange-blue posters in the bus booths. Let me add: within the limits of a strong and resilient rule of law. I would add that explicitly. That rule of law is being demanded a great deal in 2016. Jihadism, organised crime, cybercrime, child pornography, fraud: it must all be tackled within our constitutional boundaries. That can only be done if we invest in the police officer on the street and in the district, in the district attorney, who has to bring a case to court and in the judge who assesses the cases. It's gonna take a turn. This minister seems to be aware of that. He has returned Lady Justitia's place with V and J, at least on the Delft blue tiles he regularly gives away. Nevertheless, a good start. It is wisdom that my group appreciates, but do not leave it to tile wisdom. A good start in this ministry isn't even half the job. Last Friday followed a new step towards improvement: extra money for the whole chain. I say that is a turning point, after all these years of austerity. Greetings for that! Hailed also for getting rid of the idea that you can free up money through perverse incentives. The time of coupon quotas is hopefully definitely behind us. Keeping cases away from the courts for a lucrative settlement is highly undesirable. The financing of the budget must be balanced and careful. So much for the praise. Soon this minister will think that with the departure of Mr Schouw and Mr Berndsen, D66's critical attitude towards security and justice has also left this Chamber. Nothing is less true, because we are far from there. What happens to those millions? This is mainly the closing of holes and the removal of unpredicted legislative proposals. But that's different from the quality impulse needed by the police, the prosecution and the justice system. How does the Minister see that? I see a cash drawer as cover. That is the language of The Hague for money now that is needed later. Isn't that just cutting back on security in the future? What about the $50 million we're getting paid by other departments? It won't be surprising that, as a D66 man, I put a red flag on cuts in education. So that's not where we're gonna make it. I come to the three organisations at the heart of the justice chain: the police, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the judiciary. The police are under maximum pressure. The police need to remodel while the store stays open. The detection rate remains at 19. That is something that needs to be dealt with. The police themselves indicate that they want to invest in detectives; in highly trained specialists to detect complex crime. However, the minister plays cat and mouse. I cannot tell from his proposal whether or not he is putting money on the table for the police in 2016 and whether he is paying out of this pot in the collective bargaining process or whether this is another, separate game. I'd say get it done properly! Can I have the assurance today that this won't be another setback? The Minister had a note written about improving the quality of the search. However, he continues the concrete impact to spring 2016. You don't catch bad guys with notes, Minister. Criminals don't wait for the police to get their shit together and the minister has his analyses and validations in place. Is the Minister prepared to bring forward investment in detection, in detectives and in district agents, so that a serious blow can be made next spring? With regard to the Dutch Forensic Institute, the Minister writes that there can be no open-ended funding. I get that. But if there is a lot more work on the NFI sign, like the MH17, you can't say: figure it out. Then the Ministry has to jump in. I'd like to get a reaction to this, too. Then I'll join the state's attorney's office. The D.A.'s gonna have to see to it that suspects are brought to justice. However, the passage times should not drag on unnecessarily. The D.A.'s gonna have to bring a case to trial with speed and a full file. Why do things have to drag on so long? Especially in the case of 'Jos van Rey', let me just mention that here. He's been dragged through the mangel for years. Maybe that's right, but we don't know that. That goes against my sense of justice. Cases need to be brought to trial swiftly. Faster lead times and higher quality require investment. Is the amount of 15 million really sufficient? Does the Minister think that the transition times with the Public Prosecutor of that money can be improved? I'm coming to justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u124	I hear Mr Pechtold saying that crime should not pay off. In that respect, we can shake hands. That's what the VVD thinks. That is why I have said in my contribution to the Minister: do not be afraid to use the tax route if it takes so long via the criminal route for all kinds of constitutional considerations and if the criminal ultimately reaps the benefits of it. Then use the IRS, where that fits, where that's possible, to take the returns from that criminal. Does that have your support?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u125	I think it's a creative idea, but I think it's an idea that comes from a financial consideration. I wonder if we will not violate our rule of law if we use the Tax Administration as some kind of judge. The FIOD employs tax officials and not detectives, not people with judicial powers like when someone just goes to court. We don't feel sorry for criminals, we share that. If we can catch them, if we can pick them, if we can bring them to justice quickly, that's for me to discuss. But throwing it over the fence to finance from the Justice Department does not seem to me to be the solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u126	I'm not talking about throwing it over the fence. I am talking about the best possible approach to ensure that we can take away the profits that the criminal makes by violating the law and standards of this country. Sometimes you have to use criminal law to do that. Of course, otherwise you don't get behind the front door, but then you also have to dare to use municipal services and also the Tax Office. To do that, we also need D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u127	I'm okay with cooperating with investigation services. If that means that it can be done more efficiently and quickly, I would be happy to do so. Mrs Swinkels, who will be fully managing the Justice portfolio as of tomorrow, is certainly prepared to work with you in this respect, especially in view of her own background and expertise. I'm coming to justice. Dutch justice belongs to the top of the world. You don't stay in that position if you don't modernise and invest in quality and accessibility. 20 million is on the table, but only for digitisation. That is not even half of what is needed to improve quality, reduce workload and maintain full courts. Why argue with mayors about maintaining courts? How does the Minister get justice out of the red figures next year? How does he plan to close a deficit of 143 million between 2016 and 2018 by 20 million? I'd like to hear the math tomorrow. Why also cut back on valuable alternatives to justice, as we have just discussed in the case of interruption, the Disputes Committee on Consumer Affairs? There must be good cooperation in the criminal chain. It must be a well-oiled machine. The Hoekstra report showed that the machine is failing. We're out of oil, not just a little bit, but structural. The exchange of information throughout the justice chain really needs to be improved in 2016. Is the Minister coming up with a good ICT plan? In 2007 I also did this budget treatment as Justice spokesperson. Even then, I asked why all these procedural documents still need to be printed on paper. All that copy work, sometimes literally trucks full, there's got to be another way. Surely such a police file should also be able to be transmitted digitally to the D.A.'s office? Connect the systems better, come up with a master plan ICT for the entire criminal justice chain, complete with investment paths and test gardens. Will the Minister agree to that tomorrow? Will the Minister also look closely at good prevention projects? I call the Safety Small Business Scheme. SMEs are not happy with the deletion of this scheme. They are rightly shocked by the title of European shoplifting champion. That's us in the Netherlands: European shoplifting champion. That is a title that is poorly shared by the Netherlands. If a sound budget had been tabled, I would have asked for shoplifting to be a priority for next year. But now I'm thinking, can I ask the police? However, shoplifting is a huge cost for shopkeepers and SMEs, and a burden for the shopping public. Shoplifting has to stop. But it seems to pay off. Recently we read that a once generously stolen apple does not seem to stand in the way of a career as a head of state. For the current cabinet, 2016 is the last financial year. It would be particularly painful to note that five years of VVD on Security and Justice at its best has turned the trend of austerity. The Minister is now putting a sum on the table after strong opposition pressure. If that had not happened, we would not even have been here to deal with the budget as far as I am concerned. It's a good thing we're here now, but we're not here yet. I heard the Minister say on Friday: that's it. If that remains his attitude, not only he, but above all the police, prosecutors and justice have a problem. If he now says that he has listened carefully to the Chamber, that this is only the beginning and that there will be more, then we will have a meaningful conversation. But then I expect a number of firm commitments. We need an investment plan for the CID. We need to put an end to the austerity pressure on the state's attorney's office. There are full courts. The case law must come from the red figures. There's gonna be a master plan for ICT. Those must be firm commitments. They are not written on a tile, but appear in the Spring Note.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u128	Mr. Chairman. Many people call the refugee problem a crisis. Yes, it is true, this is a crisis, but it is mainly a political crisis. In 2015, the cabinet was overwhelmed by the asylum influx. The cabinet was not prepared for this asylum entry. It was not prepared, while a former Secretary of State warned in 2014 about the influx of 65,000 asylum seekers. However, virtually no measures were taken. We notice the consequences of this every day. I mean municipalities that are constantly looking for beds. I'm talking about being dragged with refugees. They sometimes spend eight times 72 hours in another shelter. Municipalities are being robbed. The other day, they sent a letter of fire asking for more money. Buses with asylum seekers who spend a day at the ADO stadium looking for a destination. In The Hague, a wrong group of asylum seekers arrives at the former Ministry of Social Affairs, and that again results in tensions. Kids don't get education. Vulnerable groups such as lht'ers are not sufficiently protected and there is no sight of sick people which makes some people in the country scurvy and gritty appear. Just a selection of recent newspaper reports, I say to the Secretary of State. I could go on about it for a while, but how does the Secretary of State look at these reports? Is this a reflection of the fact that the Secretary of State is in control or is threatening to get out of hand? Shouldn't this be a reason for emergency action? I also see some jumps in the cabinet. The recent plan to let young healthy men sleep on the streets at night is actually inexplicable. The plan to punish municipalities financially if they do not cooperate instead of reward is strange, to say the least. The question arises as to whether the Secretary of State is in control of this process. I also ask because the Chamber almost forced the cabinet to arrive at a more realistic assessment of the number of asylum seekers next year. The cabinet almost seemed to be planning to surprise itself again by the high influx of asylum seekers, because the budget we received on Princess Day contained totally unrealistic estimates of asylum. Until last week, the cabinet maintained that there would be only 26,000 asylum seekers. Meanwhile, the cabinet has added 32,000, bringing us to a total of 58,000. It is good that there is now a more realistic approach, but I still have serious doubts. The cabinet makes extra money available to the IND to prevent the waiting period and hence the length of stay and the reception period from increasing too much. Do you think they're gonna run out of money? Does the Secretary of State intend to say that the current waiting period of at least six months is going to increase to seven or eight months? Why doesn't the Secretary of State bet on reducing the waiting time? That's literally what it is right now, a waiting time. I'll be on cover. Of the 60.5 million going to the IND, 70 million comes from cuts on the IND itself. That's not even a pocket pocket anymore, that's just a pocket pocket. Half of the coverage also comes from the European Union's funds for the reception of asylum seekers relocated by the European Union. I wonder how the Secretary of State intends to sell that it will be possible to finance an improvement in the chain, whereas it is only intended for the reception of these people. At the moment, my group finds it quite strange that there is no cover for those 32,000 asylum seekers who are estimated to be extra and that the capacity of the COA is not being increased. My group, like the CDA group, would like to respond to this and not only in this year's Navy's note, but before the budgetary treatment of Security and Justice and Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation has been completed. Is the Secretary of State actually planning to receive 58,000 asylum seekers? Will the COA be given the capacity to regulate that planning? Have any agreements been made with municipalities about next year's shelter? I would like an integral plan from this Secretary of State on not only the care but also on all the other questions that his coalition colleague of the PvdA has asked about education, health care and other matters. My group raised the issue of the cost of crisis relief earlier, which is now almost entirely borne by the municipalities. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his commitment to discuss this with the VNG, but I think it would be a good idea to resolve this issue as soon as possible and preferably this week. Now municipalities sometimes see the bottom of the municipal treasury coming into view. If they receive asylum seekers, they may sometimes be at the expense of contributions to libraries, lampposts and that kind of local expenditure. That seems simply unacceptable to me. I ask the Secretary of State today to meet these municipalities and to say in advance that the actual costs incurred by municipalities are covered by the asylum reserve. This seems to me to be a better strategy than to make threats to municipalities that asylum seekers will be thrown out. I come to the registration of asylum seekers. In the Netherlands and in Europe it is extremely difficult. My group had serious concerns about this earlier. My group chairman asked about the delays in the debate. The Secretary of State then said soothing words: yes, the foreign police were lagging behind, but they would be eliminated. Suddenly it turned out that the registration that took place was heavily below par. I ask the Secretary of State if he can guarantee that these budgetary adjustments and on the basis of these estimates will guarantee the quality of registration. National level is one thing, but we must of course solve everything at European level, so a genuine common European asylum system with a fair and binding key. In that respect, I have a question about the external borders. Open internal borders can only be maintained if the external borders are properly controlled. My group is in favour of a genuine European coastal and border guard and would like the cabinet to take over. I hope that's what the Cabinet wants to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u129	Mr. Chairman. A week and a half after the attacks in Paris, we are discussing the budget for security and justice in the Netherlands. This shows how important it is to invest in security and in our rule of law. For the Christian Union, it is important that the core of the task of the government, namely guaranteeing security and doing justice, is properly ensured. Like many parties, the Christian Union was concerned about the cut in the budget for Security and Justice. We have previously referred to it as a small-scale budget. We were very concerned about the probation, the National Police and the justice system. Fortunately, last Friday we received a letter from the cabinet about 250 million extra. We were happy about that. We congratulate the Minister and the Secretary of State for that extra contribution. It was necessary, too. I assume there will be a letter of amendment. I say to the rulers that we may see reason to organise a reopening before the vote on that letter of amendment, as far as we get it. We in the Christian Union want to see whether we agree with that letter of amendment. We still have some concerns: the case law, the National Police, the smuggling of people and the capacity of the COA. I'll start with justice. That's where 20 million goes, but isn't this totally absorbed by KEI, the ICT programme? Is there room for strengthening the rule of law? A second opinion has been requested by the Minister, as has just been mentioned in an interrupting debate. An additional investment of 15 million is needed. We are committed to giving real impetus to justice by 15 million. Thanks to the Slob/Samsom motion at the General Reviews in September, the decision was taken to look again at the courts in seven cities. The motion asks to consider the alternatives, together with the municipalities. What are the results of that conversation? Can the government confirm that the undressing of the courts will not yield money until 2018? If so, is the Minister prepared to ask the Council to postpone the decision and to consult the municipalities to see if we can simply keep a full court open at those seven locations? It would be nice if it could come to another solution. I'm coming to the National Police. I am pleased with the money that has been spent before. My group continues to question the budget for the National Police. The Court of Auditors says that the Minister is putting his head in the sand for the risks. Is this EUR 138 million in Friday's letter a response to this criticism? If so, what part of this amount is the Minister going to spend on the police and on what? Is there gonna be money for the cost of the new CID plans? What about more district agents and the possibility of combating radicalisation through a local neighbourhood approach? I would like to receive a response from the Minister. I'm here to talk about the cover. 250 million has been released. 50 million must come from other ministries. A further 15 million has to be cut within the Ministry. The proceeds of the fraud investigation have been very optimistic. Is the Minister not afraid that he will have to come to the Chamber at the end of the year because there is still a shortage of money? Then there's the human trafficking. Police, D.A. and Kmar have for some time been making a significant priority in tackling human trafficking. That's perfectly right. But I am getting signals that this is at the expense of the capacity to deal with, for example, trafficking in human beings, a matter that must also be dealt with as a matter of urgency. I therefore have an amendment in mind to make an extra modest and targeted amount available to deal with human trafficking in special teams of police, OM and KMar, so that there is room for regular work, such as the fight against trafficking in human beings. The field has also insisted on this. I will continue with the asylum section of the budget. The Slob motion, which calls for more funding for the reception of asylum seekers in the Netherlands, but also in the region, was adopted in the General Reviews. Last Friday, the cabinet gave its first hand in terms of the amounts for the IND, but that leaves the reception of the people themselves in the Netherlands. We have already discussed amongst ourselves that the assessment of 58,000 asylum seekers next year is real. For this, the COA should receive more money than 430 million for next year's budget. This year we are probably spending a billion dollars on the reception of asylum seekers. Surely it cannot be that we are cutting back 500 million on that post and moving it forward to a Spring note or even a Autumn note? If we want to approve this budget, we should not see a budget deficit of 500 million. I would like a response or at least an indication or also the Secretary of State can add money to the COA. A proposal has been made for a mini-Schengen. A mini-Schengen could be created together with the neighbouring countries. This is, of course, the result of the failure of the European approach. The hotspots don't come off the ground. We have talked about this several times in the Chamber. I believe that only one has now come off the ground, namely on Lesbos. Even it doesn't work. There are also noises about some kind of asylum quota. I would like a clear response from the Secretary of State. Is it the case that every refugee must always have the opportunity to apply for asylum? Can the Secretary of State continue to give that guarantee? We're going to the winter. It could start freezing again. We now know that some people are in the emergency shelter in the pavilions, in the tents. Can the Secretary of State promise that when winter starts, those people are taken out of those pavilions and those tents and they just get a roof over their heads? We have spoken on several occasions about the Ranov and the naturalization problem in the General P.D. I welcome the letter from the Secretary of State that he is finally meeting these people in terms of not being able to demonstrate their origins. We do get signals from people who are now trying to arrange this through the IND, yet they still have to prove their identity with other possibilities and means than a birth register. That can't be the intention of the letter, can it? I therefore urge the Secretary of State to urge his staff to come up with a practical solution so that the general ministers who have been waiting for years and cannot, for example, marry or cannot go to England can naturalize as quickly as possible. 158 children's rights organisations have expressed their concerns about this Chamber. Let me give you one example of the problems they face: the family reunification procedure of single minors, a very vulnerable group. As there is a delay in the processing of applications for asylum, it takes much longer for an application to be made. This can happen, given the large influx of asylum in this area, including of minors, but this should not lead to these people being of age at the time of their application. I therefore ask the Secretary of State to ensure that the time of entry into the Netherlands is decisive in assessing whether the post-travel provision in Article 29 applies. Does the Secretary of State share our analysis and is he prepared to do so? We want to prevent the children from being of age and from having an opportunity to leave.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u130	I have a question about the budget of justice. I have not heard from the Christian Union about the housing plans of justice. The previous chairman of the Christian Union Group has tabled a motion on this subject which seeks to increase the time needed to allow this whole process to take place. Yesterday, a petition was presented by the Dutch Association for Justice. The Christian Union was not there, but I told Mr Voordewind what was said there. What is the Christian Union like in that? Is that $20 million enough or does it need money? Can the 20 million be used for housing? Or are we, as the NVR says, going to stretch it for a year?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u131	I imagine I talked a little fast, but I did mention it. I have urged the Minister to take more time so that we can see whether we can find practical solutions to the full functioning of the courts in the seven municipalities concerned. At this point, I have a motion in preparation. Maybe we can file it together.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u132	Even if it costs money?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u133	Yeah, even if it costs money. I understand it's gonna take a while before it's gonna cost money. Mr Oskam mentioned amounts of EUR 30 million, but I understand that these amounts are smaller. In any case, let us ask the Minister to consult with the municipalities on what is possible. If there are any figures, I understand that there will be smaller amounts of around 6 million ECU, then I would like to start the discussion with Mr Oskam and hopefully also with the PvdA, which I assume is on the same line, to see if we can get out of it together.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u134	Thank you. Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u135	I should like to conclude my speech. It is now important to continue to invest in our security while remaining hospitable to the refugees. Finding that balance, speaking with two words, will be the challenge for the coming time. On this point, the Christian Union will continue to encourage the rulers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u136	Mr. Chairman. The attacks in Paris and Beirut were not only attacks on people and humanity, but also on democracy and the rule of law. It is precisely then that we must defend the values of the democratic rule of law. Last week we had a worthy debate in this Chamber. I would point out that GroenLinks is pleased that the cabinet too now believes that the cuts in security and justice are damaging the rule of law. The question is whether the years of austerity can be brushed away with 250 million structuralally from 2017. Justice has to do with structurally ten years of late maintenance, we read in the media. GroenLinks wants to know exactly where the money comes from, where it goes and whether it leads to structural improvements. I agree with the many questions raised by the previous speakers. Citizens' rights and thus access to justice and justice are at the heart of the rule of law. That is why GroenLinks is pleased that the increase in registry rights is over. At least as important, however, is the functioning of the police, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the judiciary and the probation. Do the police and the D.A. get the room to do their job? Do all the courts remain fully-fledged courts, or do we undress some of them? How does the 250 million come structuralally from 2017? Crime is falling, we see in the statistics, but so is the size of the police. In five years the police are shrinking by about 5,000 fte; that is as much as 10%. This puts the police's neighborhood-oriented approach in jeopardy, as the district agents must also serve other priorities. Precinct agents in particular contribute to crime prevention and preventing radicalisation. In the interrupting debate, I already asked about the railway police. A strong rule of law includes a strong watchdog for the observance of human rights. To that end, at the end of 2012, we installed the College of Human Rights. If the college wants to do its job properly, a cut is now even a relatively small amount of money. We have tabled an amendment to that effect. By strengthening the College, we can also strengthen the rule of law. The same goes for the counselor who has to be present at the interrogation. In the legal aid scheme, it is now budgeted for only one hour in the first three to four days that someone is incarcerated. The same applies to the Disputes Committee. That is what other colleagues have already said. GroenLinks believes that additional funding for the IND is right, but at the same time the structural improvement of the funding and the organisation of the reception stays out. My colleague Mr Voortman's motion on small-scale care is not yet being implemented. I'd like to get a reaction on how that's gonna happen. On the other motion co-signed by GroenLinks, the spokesperson of the PvdA asked questions. I'm waiting for the reaction to that. On Friday the mayor of Ede had to withdraw a plan for an azc, because the residents did not want one large azc, but were open to small centers. The COA did not want that, however. It seems that the cabinet is cutting costs for social support and quality of care. I urge the Secretary of State to dedicate the COA to opt for small locations as well, rather than only for large locations. GroenLinks proposes that the reception during the asylum procedure should no longer lie with the COA, but with the municipality. This strengthens the support of the local population. Does the Secretary of State wish to examine the possibilities of a reception system in which the COA is solely responsible for the very first part of the reception of asylum seekers and the municipalities provide the reception during the procedure? My colleagues have also said that we must get rid of the wonderful way of funding the shelter. Budgetten will be established in retrospect. The budget is now based on 28 000 refugees, but the forecast is 58 000. Apparently, the finances in the Spring Note are only finally settled. This is a very big administrative challenge, but it is also about the proper reception of refugees in our country. That requires proper funding. I would therefore ask the government to adapt the budget for reception and the forecasts to the Autumn note. According to GroenLinks, this is a matter of good governance. GroenLinks wants the rulers to work in 2016 to restore, improve and strengthen the rule of law, i.e. justice, and decent asylum reception. This does not fit in with the creation of budget tension, as the Secretary of State writes. The idea is that by budget pressure, actually consciously creating deficits, there would be efficiency gains to enforce. After ten years of austerity, that is simply not possible anymore. With the General Court of Auditors, GroenLinks believes that ambitious priorities include an appropriate budget. A prosperous country such as the Netherlands has a strong and stable rule of law. We will simply have to put the corresponding resources on the table. And a humane reception of refugees in the Netherlands also requires an appropriate budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u137	Mr. Chairman. I'll start with a quote. "Give us insight into our spiritual lack and impotence so that we learn to hunger and thirst for true justice." You must be wondering where that came from. I'll tell you. It is a quote from Professor Rinus Otte, a well-known judge, who quoted these words in his book "The Emperor's New Clothes." They come from a prayer that his mother always prayed. He calls that an attitude that wouldn't be out of place in the world of justice. You must have a keen eye for what is wrong, for what can be better, but not to then end up in a passive grumpy and whining culture, but precisely to contribute to real justice and to do justice to the deep desire that injustice is restored. I think that's also a great mission for Security and Justice at this time. People notice that many budget debates in this Chamber involve a great deal, except for the budget itself. You can't say that about Security and Justice this time. We talked a lot about the money. I would also like to contribute to this. Security and Justice are central tasks of the government. Whether it's theft from your home, violence in the street, criminal gangs raging the countryside or threatening terrorism, citizens expect action. And yes, there's a price on that too. Unfortunately, in recent years, the budget for security and justice has also suffered from political volatility. I can say that, because the SGP already advocated structural investments in security and the protection of the rule of law in the 2012 election programme. At the time, we were almost alone in not only cutting back on security and justice, but making additional money available for it. I am pleased that the need for this is now widely supported. We then mentioned 250 million. We have heard that amount before today. We turned out to be a little ahead of our time. We've been through this before. Anyway, it's come of it now. The Security and Justice budget presented at Princess Day was actually too thin in everyone's eyes. The ambitions have only increased and the cuts have become increasingly tighter. We see it as a good and good step that extra money has now been made available. I, too, have a "but" follow up on that. How much is really left under the line, and is that enough to meet the pressure on the safety chain? We do not yet hear from all sides of the field applause for the budget. It will be argued that this is never the case. Nevertheless, one time there is more text than the other time. We hear from various quarters, for example from the case law: is this enough to maintain the sites that are at risk? Mr Oskam and other colleagues have also mentioned this. The Chamber held a hearing on it. As far as we are concerned, it is extremely unfortunate for the accessibility of justice if the money goes only to investment in ICT and this problem cannot be solved. The President of the College of Attorneys General called for real investment in security before the summer. The border of what the Public Prosecutor can still do in the fight against criminals has been reached. Is the extra 15 million really gonna make that fight work? After all, the necessary cuts are still on the agenda for the coming years. The risk remains that important investigations will remain. Here too, more is needed to maintain and strengthen quality. It is obvious that this is also in the light of the "emergency of times" in order to further undo the cuts, including for 2015 and 2016. When it comes to the police, the Minister says that in the Netherlands we almost meet the legal standard for district agents of 1 in 5,000 inhabitants. In the meantime, it is possible to deviate from this standard within the unit. I'd say that's not what the law's supposed to do. The local police task is precisely the basis for security policy. The SGP therefore calls on the Minister to do everything possible to achieve not only the total number but also the right distribution. This is very important for the exercise of the basic police duty throughout the country. I'd like to hear a reaction to that. I have already mentioned this in an interrupting debate with Mr Marcouch. The Minister is in the process of adapting the specific legislation on the use of force by agents. This discussion has been going on for a number of years. In 2016 we can expect a bill. Can't we go a little faster? I see the Minister's shaking no as it is, but he can't answer until tomorrow. Maybe shaking the no can turn into saying yes. A wish in the field of police is also to make more work of professional mental care. It is a difficult and risky profession. We hear that in practice, despite all the good wishes of the previous collective agreement period, this has not yet been achieved. Money, resources, powers: in the fight against terrorism, they all come together and are discussed. We have had an extensive debate on this recently. I'm not going to repeat any of that now. I do have another question that we have already raised in a previous debate on terrorism: would it not be possible, in the case of terrorist offences, to take away as much as possible, in the case of a single nationality, which cannot therefore be taken away as with a double nationality, so that the terrorists have a so-called bald nationality? When can that be clarified? A critical point that we have often raised here is the release after two thirds of the sentence, even if someone has been in prison for terrorism. We often find this very unfortunate, even from the point of view of public support for justice. It is better to have a sentence that is served completely than to have to explain each time that it is quite common that a third person does not have to be served. When can a battle be struck here? In the execution of our motions on volunteering and care for prisoners, the necessary has been taken into account. We call for the principle of co-financing to be firmly regulated. There's been a motion in the Chamber earlier. Volunteering for prisoners helps that social rooting and receiving money from outside to bring society more into the picture. So I would like to see a firm co-financing scheme put in place. In preventing recidivism, it is also essential for ex-convicts to be able to find a job. I would like to draw attention to the project "The Company" of Prisoners Care. It appears to be successful to invest in a work path during detention. What are the possibilities of providing financial support for these kinds of pathways, whether or not they come from social affairs? The perpetrators must be more aware of the consequences of their actions on the victims and society. This is covered by SOS projects. What do directors do to make such projects work in the longer term? I hear that there are very good projects and that they are being financed, but it is unclear whether they can survive. I would like to conclude with a few comments in areas other than the classic areas of justice: family law and, finally, asylum. In the area of family law, I limit myself to questions about adoption. Sometimes there are serious reasons to raise children outside the family in which they were born. This is possible both in foster care and in the field of adoption. It should be avoided that, for financial reasons, it should be abandoned in order to become an adoptive or foster care parent. I am not going to call again for a stopped subsidy scheme to be restored, but would it not be possible at the very least to reduce the costs that are also charged to parents by the Justice Department itself? Furthermore, in October, the Secretary of State again applied for advice on a future-proof adoption system. I thought another external investigation was launched. Haven't we had enough of that kind of research now? There seems to be a need for a new investigation every time. In order to protect children, domestic adoption must also be properly regulated. In Germany there is a procedure for giving birth under pseudonym. This guarantees the privacy of the mother and, at the same time, the child's life and right to information of origin. In order to protect children, does the Minister want to see whether legislation in the Netherlands can be adapted in a similar way? Finally, I would like to make a few comments on asylum. I'm in injury time, but my group still has some in the pot, so I can talk for one more minute. I can see that the chairman is okay with it. The Netherlands must be a safe haven for foreigners when a dangerous storm of injustice and violence rages in their country of origin. We think it is incredibly important to give real substance to this temporaryity, which is now in it, in practice, so that, in the end, there is also more support for the reception of large numbers of people who are fleeing. Now we see that this system is very little flexible. After five years, you'll have a permanent residence permit anyway. Would it not be possible to extend that deadline? The Secretary of State had promised to send a letter on this subject with advantages and disadvantages for the budgetary procedure. I haven't seen it yet. Perhaps it could at least come before the second term. Is it possible to clarify more quickly whether or not to obtain a temporary residence permit for the people who are coming in now? There is now a great deal of uncertainty and uncertainty about this. I'm rounding up. We sincerely wish both rulers in this exciting time God's blessing and wisdom to do justice in all these matters and to contribute to real justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u138	Mr. Chairman. Mr Van der Staaij often does this so meritoriously: starting with a quote. That's what I want to do today. I will start with an important quote from the policy agenda on the Ministry's objective: "Once upon a time, protection of people from crime and other threats to their security has been seen as the central task of the government. That protection must take place in a way that is careful, correct and just, so that everyone in the Netherlands has the maximum space to live in freedom." These are wise, promising words that appeal very much to 50PLUS. But these are also words on which we are deeply concerned, because can this objective be achieved with this justice budget? 50PLUS seriously doubts that. I'm gonna drop right into the house with the door. There are no less than half a billion cuts on police. Partly in response to the attacks in Paris, the police union is asking for this to be reversed. Such events have a direct effect on Dutch police work. The union says it needs 1,500 more agents and 500 more detectives, and advocates an early heavier armament. If the attacks in Paris make sense to us, it is that protection against crime and the violation of our security are serious issues. Probably the government agrees with us. And so she has to make a visible commitment to that. May I have a response from the Minister to the statements of the police union? We no longer trust the slogan 'do more with less money'. We have seen this on several occasions in the municipal social domain. It's a beautiful pursuit that really has its limits. For this reason, 50PLUS has serious reservations about the doubling of the planned reorganisation costs to be covered by the police budget. How realistic is that really? Is the Minister prepared to take the request of the police seriously, talk to the police and reconsider the cuts? Reducing the number of police stations, and thus the blue on the street, can have a major impact on the sense of security. Mr Van der Staaij recalled this last week. The number of district agents is far from up-to-date. In addition, the victim will have to continue traveling for oral declaration if digitised declaration cannot be made. Or the other way around, people who are not digitally skilled, may be more likely to give up on this if they can't file a personal report. How careful, correct and just is that? It also affects senior citizens who are increasingly affected by the so-called high-impact crime, such as robberies, street robberies, home invasions and violent crimes. The fact that we put in the budget that the number of street robberies should be limited to 6.534 in 2016 is actually strange. 1,596 robberies may still be allowed, but then it must be over. That's weird. What concrete measures does the cabinet take to better protect older people who have to live longer at home from these crimes? The austerity of justice is equally worrying. Yesterday, the Nederlandse Vereniging voor Rechtrecht presented a petition to the Dutch Parliament asking for the new multi-annual judicial procedure to be postponed. Some judges also recently expressed their concerns in the Dutch Lawyers' Magazine. They all had the same message: further cuts in justice are unacceptable. The soil has been reached, there is no support and the plans are being continued too quickly. For example, the judges state that the review of the judicial card must be kept under review. I'd like to get a response from the Minister to these disturbing signals. The Justice Council said that it needed a structural additional EUR 50 million to deal with the impact of the new housing plan. The importance of good justice is recognised, but the necessary resources are not sufficiently released. The cabinet has now eased the austerity, but that's barely half of it. Why was this choice made? The intention to reduce the number of courts will hit certain regions and people with less money or with reduced mobility the hardest. Moreover, it is feared that scaling up will lead to a lower quality of work. Access to justice for the disabled and inability to work remains guaranteed, according to the cabinet. But how? There is also the intention to digitise the case-law. How will access for digital low-literate students be guaranteed? Does digitalisation lead to more efficiency and not just to digital stacks? Finally, I have a few other points to make. It is good to read that some European funds have launched projects for, among other things, the physical and digital protection of the range of the NL-Alert alert alert system, with special attention to reach among vulnerable groups, such as older people. 50PLUS has previously called for attention to be paid to this. What exactly is meant by'special attention' is not yet clear to us. I'd like to get an explanation on that. More and more people at the notary draw up a life testament. The Secretary of State of VWS calls for attention to this in the handling of elder abuse. It is understandable that people think about the fact that they can become incompetent or unable to act and record their wishes on this matter. But the high costs of this are often raising the threshold. Can the Minister agree with us on how to lower that threshold? An increasing number of vulnerable elderly people is an easy target for criminals, for example aggressive handymen. The Secretary of State at VWS assured us that he was in close consultation with the elderly unions about the financial resilience of the elderly. What does the Minister think about this? What role does he see for himself in promoting the resilience and safety of elderly people living at home, in particular the group that used to be able to go to a nursing home? The light and serious crime caused by this cabinet's foreign drug policy in our view gives rise to 50PLUS concerns. Doesn't the cabinet really see that something has to change, for example by having the back door legally supplied? I'd like a response. We would also like to hear a response from the Minister on this afternoon's news that the European Parliament supports the proposal to place returned Syrian fighters under judicial supervision. One of the most accessible complaints institutes in the Netherlands is the Foundation Disputes Committees on Consumer Affairs; a lot has already been said about it. This foundation assesses various consumer complaints and currently has 54 affiliated committees. This body's handling of complaints reduces the influx of more expensive cases within the legal system, says the government itself. However, the contribution to this foundation will be phased out from 2016. That's our eyes at least illogical. This makes it increasingly difficult and more expensive to resolve a complaint or dispute. The corridor to the court should be made with all the financial consequences of that. It raises the threshold for consumer complaints and is highly undesirable in several respects. Why was this choice made? I'd like a response. Together with SP and GroenLinks, we have tabled an amendment on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u139	Mr. Chairman. We stand for justice, equality and the fight against double standards. During this budget debate, many issues have already been reviewed. I will leave it to a number of subjects which we believe have been discussed too little. In this context, I am talking about discrimination within the police organisation, the issue of ethnic profiling and the traffic fines. But I'll start with asylum policy. We at DENK are in favour of a fair distribution of refugees, a fair distribution international with reception in the region, a fair distribution within Europe and fair distribution within the Netherlands. In the region, the vast majority of refugees are already being received, and that is going well. However, more money is needed and countries must comply with their financial commitments to UNHCR. Can the Secretary of State give you a status report? Is the amount sufficient to allow human wintering and which countries have not yet fulfilled their commitments? The distribution within Europe is inadequate. No one really wants the refugees. In this respect, Europe looks just like a pinball machine: some change goes in and refugees go back and forth. Merkel is on the buttons and occasionally Hollande is allowed to play a game. Our secretary of state is also allowed to play a game once in a while, but most of the time he's just watching. As far as DENK is concerned, Europe must stop fighting and distribute refugees fairly. As the 160,000 refugees from Italy and Greece were distributed across the Union, all refugees should be divided, but that is still not happening. We ask the Secretary of State again why that is not possible. Surely every country contributes to the financial aid package to Greece exactly according to its capacity? Why is Europe in solidarity in a financial crisis, but not in a humanitarian human crisis? Is saving the euro more important than saving people's lives? What about the spread within the Netherlands? That's what I'm asking the Secretary of State. Isn't it ridiculous that tiny villages get large asylum seekers' centres? We also note that rich congregations consciously emerge from the dance. Why not asylum seekers' centres in Blaricum and Bloemendaal? I'm sure there's enough empty mansions and untapped estates there to build shelters. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. DENK believes that the Dutch police deserve a better collective agreement. The police carry out a crucial and responsible task, and this includes a good salary and good secondary working conditions. But we at DENK are also asking for something back from the police. We want discrimination and racism to be totally eliminated in the police. This requires a cultural change, and it does not go from one moment to the next. Now, in addition to many good policemen, there are some racist cowboys, a small group, that we have to go hard on. That racism manifests itself in the phenomenon of ethnic profiling. On the basis of skin colour and appearance, civilians are picked out by the police. Usually this is not a serious crime but is done by identity and traffic checks and by preventive search. This phenomenon is at the expense of trust in the police. People get the feeling they're second-class citizens. I'm not just saying this, anthropologist Paul Mutsaers saw it happen at traffic checks. When the window went down and there was a blonde Dutchman in the car, he was told: you are allowed to drive; you are not one of our target groups. We are fighting fiercely against this unequal treatment, against this double measure. The United Nations and Amnesty International have also spoken to the Netherlands on several occasions about the bad practice of ethnic profiling. However, we see that nothing is being done about it by the government. Why not? I'll ask the Minister. Do we perhaps feel too good for the criticism of the United Nations and Amnesty International? We in the Netherlands are proud of our human rights and our rule of law, aren't we? DENK therefore asks the Minister if he is finally prepared to take measures to eradicate this bad practice in the Netherlands. Last summer, for example, we saw the murder, unfortunately, at Mitch Henriquez in The Hague. He was beaten up without great cause and put in a neck clamp. He died on the scene. Unfortunately, the Public Prosecutor tried to cover this up and came out with a press release stating that Mitch Henriquez died in the hospital. This press release was withdrawn within a few moments. In the meantime, the same prosecutor is responsible for the trial of the agents. How does this benefit confidence? This is an accumulation of injustice and injustice. All the political parties here in the House of Representatives who spoke on this subject said they wanted to wait for the investigation, but when reports came out about that investigation, it was silent. Minister, normally the police have to protect the citizens. But who should protect citizens from disproportionate police violence? Who should call civilians if they see the police using unjust force? Shouldn't there be an independent organisation where citizens can complain about the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office? I'm gonna move on to my next point, the traffic fines. They are not fair as far as we are concerned. They're rising exponentially. In 1990 the government made 200 million euros. In 2000, the government made 400 million euros. In 2010 that rose to EUR 800 million and now, in 2015, we are at EUR 1 billion. So that's a doubling every ten years. The Cabinets Kok, Balkenende and Rutte have one thing in common: the traffic fines are used as a milk cow. The Court of Auditors also says this. It looks completely independently at the legality of expenditure. The PvdA and the VVD use the traffic fines to close the gaps in their budget. We think that is unfair. My question to the Minister is therefore whether he is prepared to cut into his own flesh. Is he willing to cut the traffic fines by 50%? In this way, the excessive government voraciousness of the past few decades is reversed in one great gesture.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u140	I was a little hesitant, but I still have an interruption. Mr Kuzu said in his introduction that DENK considers justice important. A nasty, horrible incident took place in the Schilderswijk in The Hague, where a prisoner died. There is a separation of powers and good use is that MPs do not judge with terms like "murderers." That people in their emotions call outside such things, you can still understand, but now a MP who claims to stand for justice does not respect the separation of powers and already condemns cops for murder, while there is still an independent investigation by the Reichsrechterche and the D.A. of what exactly happened. Would Mr Kuzu not then begin to do justice to his own words, by giving the agents in that case justice? Get the D.A. to investigate, stay away from it as politics, and let the judge have the final say.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u141	Mr Marcouch may also scratch behind his ears when this incident takes place in June. July, August, September, October, it is now November, Mr Marcouch. It's been six months. That research is indeed still ongoing, but we have also seen various expressions in the media over the past period. The victim's attorney in this matter, for example, has seen the report and a number of things have surfaced. In this sense, we have all said here: we await the investigation of the police. I see that, unfortunately, with him too, there is not enough movement in the fundamental nature of this issue. The vast majority of the people working in the police are doing very well and doing noble work. It is, however, a question of eliminating excesses, incidents and practices. Ex-Police Chief Gerard Bouman mentioned this as well. I would like to hear Mr Marcouch on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u142	The point is that it is unfair to use the term "murder" in the mouth. I believe that this is unfair to both the victims and those involved in that case from the police. I don't like doing that around here. I think it is right that we should keep the agreement here that politics should stay away when cases are under investigation and under the courts. That's how we do it here. Mr Kuzu has said this here, and I would like to throw it far from me. I also distance myself from it as a Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u143	Mr Marcouch may, of course, distance himself from reality. We saw a lot of footage just after these incidents. The Public Prosecutor's Office published a press release shortly after that incident and that same Public Prosecutor's Office withdrew this press release in no time after the commotion on social media and in society. I strive for that justice. I strive for citizens to have confidence in the police and in the Public Prosecutor's Office. I am in favour of this and I am in favour of this kind of incident not contributing to increasing confidence in our public institutions. Mr Marcouch can, of course, make a point of the rules he applies, but these are less important to me than the rights of people.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u144	Mr. Chairman. Security is the core task of the government, but this cabinet does not take this obligation seriously at all. The little extra money that is being allocated is not even enough to close existing gaps. The extra 250 million is a tissue for bleeding. There is nothing left for real investments in security, when we see everywhere that the police cannot handle the tasks in a time of war. Rutte II makes the Netherlands more unsafe. 40 jihad suspects are out there. Keep sleeping, Minister! Jihadists can enter our country through the asylum influx. The identity of 12,000 asylum seekers is unknown. The jihadism action plan is not in any hurry. We've got to move the helm around. The Cabinet must take the following measures as soon as possible. Re-enter border controls. Not only do we want that, 70% of the Dutch population want that. Close the borders for asylum seekers; there may be IS-jihadists among them. We only want shelter in our own region. Invest heavily in our safety. We want an additional 1 billion for police and justice. Enter administrative detention so that jihadists, as in the US, the United Kingdom and Australia, can be detained preventively. Give police people heavier weapons and the ability to carry service weapons in private time, for which police union ACP has also argued. I would like a response from the Minister to this proposal. The cabinet must protect the Netherlands as much as possible, but while the terrorist threat has never been so great, our country has a failed National Police. It pains me to see that. Unfortunately, it remains a mess under this minister too. Reorganising at record rate while at the same time meeting higher ambitions with too little money is an impossible task. Former Chief Attorney General Dato Steenhuis rightly stated that the establishment of the National Police had failed. My group has indicated this many times before. It can't go on like this anymore. Stop the current reorganisation of the police and come up with a new plan! Recognize the mistakes that have been made. The safety of citizens is at stake. The National Police perform very badly in the fight against crime and crime. The ability to act has been severely weakened. Let me give you a few examples. We are seeing a sharp reduction in the number of criminal cases. Courts indicate that policemen are more concerned with their own organization than with tracking. Fifty thousand fewer crimes are solved every year. The willingness to report is frighteningly low. In a large part of the Netherlands, serious crime is hardly dealt with. Corruption and bribery, like the police moles, are the order of the day and thrive best in weak-led organizations such as the current National Police. Our capital is being flooded with heavy automatic weapons. A kalashnikov is as easy to order as a croquette sandwich. The measures proposed in the contour note are not sufficient to bring the detection to a higher level. The conclusion is that the Netherlands is becoming more unsafe under this cabinet. What also irritates many Dutch people is that the police are dealing with the wrong tasks. In Enschede, people who are against the arrival of an asylum-seekers centre were intimidated with unsolicited home visits. In Utrecht banners were unjustly seized during a demonstration. The police could use a free speech course. We call on the Minister to simply use the police to fight crime and crime. It's not just trouble and torment with the police. The district attorneys don't have their business in order either. Suspects increasingly walk out of court without punishment. That is a very worrying development. The D.A. really needs to do better than that. I'd like a response from the Minister. In March of this year, Harry Borghouts, former Secretary-General of the Justice Department, said: "The bottom stone does not come up, because then the whole of the Justice Department falls apart." This statement draws the rotten culture in the department. Cees H., Volkert van der Graaf, the misses surrounding the murder of Els Borst: they are just a few examples of structural malpractice in the Ministry of Security and Justice. The Demmink case is still the most shady. What is the Minister finally going to do to make a breakthrough in this? When will Turkey participate in requests for legal aid? I'd like a response from the Minister. I would like to mention two more points, first of all the extremely high traffic fines. What many Dutch people have known for many years has now been established by the courts: traffic fines have been unfairly increased in recent years in order to make the state cash. It's a real shame! We call on the cabinet to change the law and drastically reduce the traffic fines. Our policemen are ready for the safety of the Netherlands day and night. They therefore deserve a good collective agreement. I call on the Minister to finally take care of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-6.u145	This brings to an end the first term of office. Tomorrow, the government will answer the many questions. I'm suspending for a short change. Then we will continue with the next item on the agenda, the discussion of the budget for external trade and development cooperation.
