ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-45.u1	A warm word of welcome to the Secretary of State for Infrastructure and the Environment, who has also arrived. We have five participants on the side of the Chamber, three of whom are going to say something.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-45.u2	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government will prepare a light impact assessment on the European proposal to restrict or prohibit the trade and use of GMOs at national level;]] [[calls on the government to focus this impact assessment not only on direct economic costs, but also on the costs of climate change and the loss of biodiversity that could be caused by GMO cultivation and trade,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[points out that freedom of choice is of great importance;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that products from animals fed with GMOs are identifiable as such by the consumer,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34214-6]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34214-7]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-45.u3	Mr President, I have a special request for you. I would like permission to table a motion that is strange to the order of the day. She's in charge of the climate case. That is a historic and unique matter. The cabinet has announced that it will take a decision on this matter this summer. I would like to table a motion to ensure that the cabinet involves the Chamber in that decision. The motion is therefore not about the content but about the involvement of the Chamber. Since the motion is not about the subject of this VAO, namely genetically modified crops, I need permission to submit it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-45.u4	You took the words out of my mouth. I need to do a little order debate right now. Climate and GMOs, you can connect it to each other, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-45.u5	Let me explain to you why I'm doing it now. The Prime Secretary of State for Climate Policy is here. The developments have occurred at a time when we could not hold another separate AO on the ruling or announcement of the cabinet. This seems to me to be efficient. The motion is only about involving the Chamber and has no substantive component.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-45.u6	Could you summarize your motion for a moment? What do you want to ask for?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-45.u7	I am going to ask the government that in any case it does not appeal in the climate case without first talking to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-45.u8	So it's just a question to the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-45.u9	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-45.u10	That's what I asked for for clarity. So it's not an intern thing for us. This has nothing to do with the subject of this VAO, so I would like to have an order debate. In this way we can see whether there is a majority in favour of your proposal that I will put forward as chairman, namely to table a motion which is strange to the order of the day. If that majority exists, you will file the motion, and otherwise you will not. I would also point out that the Secretary of State may refrain from a judgment. She can say: I'm sorry, I didn't prepare for this. So we have to take a look at that. At least that's what the Secretary of State has to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-45.u11	The motion is, if possible, also tabled by Mrs Van Veldhoven of D66 and Mrs Van Tongeren of GroenLinks. So they are in agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-45.u12	You're damn right you can. I give the floor to Mr Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-45.u13	Part of it's gonna be against, part of it's gonna be ahead. Let Mrs Ouwehand read that motion and let the Secretary of State decide whether to answer it. Then we're done and we're moving on quickly in connection with time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-45.u14	I'm sorry, but I'm not here for that. If we do that, we're gonna stretch the VAOs one more time, even though we already have a problem with the agenda. So I think we should just do it the regular way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-45.u15	No problem. I therefore support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-45.u16	I agree with Mr Dijkgraaf's words for ease of reference.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-45.u17	I too agree with what Mr Dijkgraaf said.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-45.u18	Don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-45.u19	I note that there is insufficient support. So you can't file the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-45.u20	That is a pity; I note that as well. I've got 47 seconds left, which I'll wear out, too. The alternative is to confront the Minister for Energy with this situation in the second period of general consultation tomorrow. This motion will follow tomorrow at the VAO Energy. That is a pity, because that is not with the appointed ruler. It is a pity that I was not given sufficient support to table the motion now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-45.u21	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-45.u22	I've got 28 seconds, Mr. Chairman. I thought I'd turn it into a carnival. No, I'll spare you that. Too bad, but the motion is due tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-45.u23	All right, we're gonna get ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-45.u24	Mr. Chairman. The new European Commission, through its President Juncker, promised to make the decision-making process on genetic engineering more democratic. We all know the example of gene-tech maize 1507, where the Commission ultimately ruled over a large majority of countries with its decision. We must not go through that again. Juncker has promised this, but the regulation before us is only a small improvement. It's not a fulfillment of Juncker's promise. He said: I will ensure that the procedural rules on the authorisation of genetically modified organisms are reviewed; I do not want the Commission to be able to take a decision if the majority of Member States do not call on it to do so. I would therefore ask the Secretary of State if she wishes to make an tireless effort to ensure that Juncker's promise is actually respected. Does it therefore wish to see a review of the authorisation process for GMOs, on the basis of which it is no longer possible for the committee to authorise a GMO against the will of the majority of Member States and in which the influence of the European Parliament is secured? The promise has been made, but the proposal before us is absolutely inadequate. I have another question for both directors. This concerns the execution of my adopted chamber motion on cisgenesis. I understand that the Netherlands in Europe is in favour of exemption from cisgenesis in GMO legislation, but not the obligation to label. On the basis of the motion adopted, both should be advocated. I ask the Secretary of State if she is prepared to do so. If there is an exemption for cisgenesis, there must also be a labelling obligation. Is the Secretary of State prepared to argue this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-45.u25	Fine, you stayed perfectly within your speaking time. I call Mr De Love.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-45.u26	Mr. Chairman. The VVD welcomes the clear no that we were told by the Secretary of State against the European Commission's miserable and harmful plan. The Commission wanted to dump a headache dossier on the fence of the Member States and also to break down the internal market, with disastrous consequences for the Netherlands: the loss of tens of thousands of jobs, billions of euros of damage and meat that will be two to three times more expensive for consumers in the supermarket. Meat as a luxury product, unreachable for low and modal incomes. Europe must bring prosperity and not break down. On the occasion of the AO, I will file the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the European Commission's proposal aims to restore the authorisation of GMOs to the national territory of the Member States;]] [[noting that the European Commission's proposal lacks an examination of the financial and economic consequences;]] [[Whereas the impact of the proposal on the Netherlands may be considerable;]] [[calls on the Government to include in the research already undertaken: the financial impact on various sectors in the Netherlands, including agriculture and horticulture, meat processing industry and the port of Rotterdam, the employment effects on the Netherlands and the impact on Dutch exports,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Members of Love and Leenders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34214-8]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-45.u27	Mr. Chairman. We have found that, in view of the division of responsibility, I can also answer the questions on behalf of the Secretary of State for Infrastructure and the Environment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-45.u28	A wonderful piece of cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-45.u29	We always do that very well, especially this Secretary of State and I. First of all, Mrs Ouwehand's motion on item No. 6. I'm afraid I'm gonna have to dissuade him. Yes, we think the European Commission's proposal is bad. We agree on that from the left to the right. We agree that in the words of Mr.De Love there is a responsibility "dipped over the hedge." We are not waiting for it in this form, also because of the potentially disruptive effects. From the outset, we indicated that other aspects were included in the admissions debate. This concerns safety for the environment and the impact of GMO authorisation on biodiversity, for example. This is really about explicit risks, particularly in the economic sense, when you cross the internal market and get a difference in the way Member States deal with this whole dossier. Also the motion in part No. I must dissuade Mrs Ouwehand from seven. The motion is contrary to European legislation, which states that products containing GMOs must, of course, be labelled, but not the animals or products thereof that have been fed with GMO products. That's why I'm dissuading the motion. Then I come to the motion by Mr De Love and Mr Leenders in part No. 8. They ask the government to zoom in more precisely on a number of issues that we could take into account in our light economic impact assessment. I leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber because I consider it to be a support for our policy. Mr Van Gerven asked a question about labelling in cisgenesis. The European Commission is asked to identify whether or not cisgenesis is qualified as a GMO. If the European Commission decides that cisgenesis is not a GMO, labelling is not the issue. That seems to me to be the right way forward. That is the verdict on the motions and the answer to the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-45.u30	Another question remains, namely the GMO maize. The majority of Member States were against it, but it was implemented. I think we had that debate with Secretary of State Mansveld. I would like that question answered. I'll come back to the Chambermove. Does the Secretary of State say in so many words that this motion is not enforceable? According to the motion, there should be a labelling obligation when cisgenesis is allowed. That's what a majority of the Chamber thinks. Will the Secretary of State carry out this motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-45.u31	The feasibility of the motion really depends on the Commission's assessment of what cisgenesis is. That's what I'm saying here. I can't make it any better, but more realistic.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-45.u32	I think these last words, Mr Van Gerven.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-45.u33	Me too, but I'm still confused. Cisgenesis is detectable. It's a mode of production. If something is made that way, you can allow it or not. Can a country opt independently for a labelling obligation in the sense of "if it comes to us, it should"?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-45.u34	No, I don't think I can. It depends on whether cisgenesis is actually qualified as a genetically modified organism. At the moment that is so, you have, as it were, the obligation to label automatically on board. When that is not the case, it would also be very strange to label it. That's the logic. It's not confusing in itself, it's very clear. That's how it works.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-45.u35	Fine. So much for this VAO. We shall vote on the three motions tomorrow. We say goodbye to the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs and wish her a pleasant evening. Mr. Van Gerven?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-45.u36	Yes, because the fellow Secretary of State would answer my question. You're a little too fast.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-45.u37	These are special days, Mr. Chairman. I understand what Mr Van Gerven means, but this is a democratic system. This means that something goes on with a qualified majority. There's a stalemate. Mr Van Gerven knows that security is being tested at European level. In September, I will have the debate with the Chamber on a national balancing framework with a transitional situation. This has been voted on at European level and everything that is now in a stalemate is stalemate within a democratic model. It is intended that we will have a European assessment of security and then a national assessment framework. Maybe that'll help us get out of that situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-45.u38	Mr. Chairman. We had the situation with maize that 15 states were against and only five in favour. The final result was that it was allowed anyway. The question is to make the scheme so that it does not happen if a majority of the countries do not want it to. That requires a new regulation or an amendment, and that is my specific question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-45.u39	As I said, we will have that debate on that. I'll report to the Chamber on that, too. What matters now is that this can be done in the current model and that the votes stop. Security will be tested at European level. Once we have our own national balancing framework, this situation can be removed. This has now also been decided at European level, for there is a majority in favour of this. Until then, this situation exists and the Commission will finally have the floor if the votes continue. We're gonna take care of that another way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-45.u40	Fine. So much for this VAO. Once again, thank you very much to the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs, who is leaving us. We shall vote tomorrow on the remaining three motions.
