ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u1	Madam President. "Mein Gott, hilf mir, diese tödliche Liebe zu überleben," in other words, "My God, help me to survive this deadly love." This text was read under the graffiti-recorded image on the Berlin Wall on which Brezhnev and Honecker gave each other the socialist fraternity kiss, which symbolizes the special fraternity between the Soviet leaders. The Berlin Wall has fallen, but the socialist dictatorship has remained under the name of the European Union. Dictations are being directed and imposed more and more centrally, and greetings between European leaders are more intimate than ever. Even Prime Minister Mark Rutte, of the Liberal House, is not opposed to greeting Juncker, the leader of the European Commission, with this socialist fraternity kiss. Is it brotherly love or is it a form of ideological submission? Is it a judask that betrays the Dutch people and sacrifices them to a dream flight of European multicultural society with equal rights in unequal cases? I'm not talking about an attraction in the Efteling this time. While the cabinet is beating itself up about its policy and still pointing out that our economy is going to be okay, hundreds of thousands of migrants, almost all of whom come from Islamic countries, are raving at the gates of Europe, demanding more than bed, bath and bread. Immigrants demand asylum and a lifetime of pampering in our welfare state. It's time we stopped looking away and fooled each other. These are not refugees, these are economic happiness seekers, these are asylum seekers looking for the meat pots of the Netherlands and Germany. If they were refugees, they would have been happy to receive shelter in their own region or in countries such as Turkey, Greece, Hungary or Austria, or they would have reported for shelter at the gates of the rock-rich Gulf States and their Islamic brothers and sisters, such as Dubai, Qatar, Kuwait or Saudi Arabia.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u2	Mrs Faber is always very interested in the subject matter. She never says anything around here. But she already knows very well that people who escape war zones do so because they are economic fortune seekers. I ask Mrs Faber two questions. First of all... Can Mrs Faber define what is a "happiness seeker" and what is wrong with that? Second. Does Mrs Faber remember that before World War II a lot of people tried to get away from Germany, mainly Jewish people, but also homosexuals, gypsies and socialists? They tried to get away and sometimes ended up in the Netherlands. The Netherlands was the first country, say Turkey of that time. They came here then. Many of them later moved on to England, the United States and even Australia. If we make a little effort, we can name a lot of those people. Would Mrs Faber also like to qualify those people as economic happiness seekers? If so, would she have said, if she had anything to say here at the time, that those people could not go further than the Netherlands and that she thought it was too far? What we are saying here, especially in this Chamber, must always be said in a bit of a historical context. Did the PVV group for 1940 describe people who fled Hitler-Germany as economic luck seekers in case they moved to America?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u3	The current flow of refugees is largely made up of people who have been in Turkey for a few years. Is it unsafe there? No. They then go to Greece. Is it unsafe there? No. Then they move to Germany or the Netherlands, where the best facilities are available. They're from a safe area. When you're on the run from war, you stay in the first place you're safe and where you can build a life.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u4	I asked a question and I would like an answer to that. Mrs Faber says: they are in Turkey and it is safe there. We have here Tineke Strik in our midst, who has visited all those refugee camps before the Council of Europe. She can tell us what's going on there. One thing is certain: in refugee camps life is never safe, never, never. I myself was in Jordan's largest refugee camp; I told you about it last year. Anyone who has something to say there says that a refugee camp is by definition an extremely unsafe place. There are people in there who come together from all sides. There's no rules, there's no supervision, there's nothing. So it's very unsafe. It's weird how Mrs Faber describes it like that. In Greece, a party is currently before the courts for being involved in the murder of migrants. So it's not that safe there. My question was about the people who came here before World War II and went on to America. Make that comparison, Mrs Faber. Don't you dare do that. Try to see what the PVV is saying here, would have meant if we had done that at another time in history. Surely it is not too much to ask of well-paid parliamentarians who use such big words about certain people to tell themselves the mirror to see what they are actually saying?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u5	I prefer to deal with the current flows of refugees. That's all hard enough as it is. So let's focus on that. As I said, if they were actually refugees, they would have reported for shelter at the gates of the rocky Gulf States and their Islamic brothers and sisters, such as Dubai, Qatar, Kuwait or Saudi Arabia. But they don't. They want to go to Germany and the Netherlands, because there is more to get there. You'll even be waiting there with a hug. This is not what the PVV comes up with, this is the harsh reality. The migrants themselves are shamelessly honest about it. Look, for example, at the reactions of asylum seekers recently received in Slovenia. This country had the shelter in order. But for these so-called refugees it was not good enough. The migrants did not know how quickly they had to get out of there on their way to Germany, the economic engine of Europe, or on their way to the Netherlands, where the Dutch people can pay the price. A non-Western asylum seeker costs tens of thousands of euros. The myth that is always used to condone the reception of asylum seekers, namely that asylum seekers are going to strengthen our economy, provide money and contribute to employment, is bullshit. These asylum seekers come to stay and wait a one-way ticket.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u6	Mrs Faber is a bit like that Iraqi Minister of Information. When the bombs struck behind him, he denied fighting in the streets of Baghdad. Does she know how many asylum applications were granted in the Netherlands in 2014?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u7	I know, because I have that on a list here. I can take that for a while, but I am sure Mr Kuiper knows it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u8	Yes. 75% of asylum applications in the Netherlands were granted because they were valid asylum applications. Mrs Faber sketches the picture as if the entire flow is made up of economic refugees. Does she know how many are coming into Europe? Less than 10%.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u9	The point is, every asylum seeker is one too many.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u10	Mrs Faber therefore looks like the Iraqi Minister for Information, who did not know the hard facts themselves and pretended nothing was wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u11	I've never been compared to an Iraqi minister. I don't think he's wearing a skirt either.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u12	You've been promoted!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u13	The VVD Group casts the remark 'every asylum seeker is too much' far from itself and considers this to be a very reprehensible statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u14	It is clear that the VVD does not set limits. The sky is the limit. It is clear that this also applies to the number of refugees and asylum seekers. That is not the end of the matter, because once asylum seekers are granted a residence status, the next party will start: family reunification. That too costs a lot of money. This asylum flow costs us billions of euros a year and pushes the welfare state right into the abyss, along with our civilisation. With the massive flow of asylum, we are bringing in barbaric Islamic practices, such as child brides. Yes, Mr. Chairman, you heard me right: child brides. Marriage out of children is an accepted use within Islam. Meanwhile, in Ter Apel, 34 Syrian child brides applied for asylum. In addition, there are another 22 retracing brides en route. There are 13-year-old girls. That's too sick for words. Meanwhile, the VVD'ers Rutte and Dijkhoff let the asylum flow. In fact, they welcome asylum seekers with open arms. According to the Prime Minister, countries within Europe that do not should be forced to accept asylum seekers. After all, this Prime Minister has no regard for democracy, for the sovereign states, for the borders and for the will of the people, which says no to even more asylum seekers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u15	Mrs Faber and I have just been discussing with each other the question of what exactly Dutch identity means. Does she agree with me that "a deal is a deal" is a very good Dutch value?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u16	That's a Dutch value; that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u17	Yeah, deal's a deal. It's typical Dutch you do that. Is it not also typically Dutch that we adhere to the agreements in the international conventions on the reception of refugees, which we have signed? We're Dutch, aren't we? We'll keep our end of the bargain, won't we? We don't just do that when it's easy and when we've got the wind? It is also very Dutch that we keep our commitments when things get complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u18	Yeah, but when I look at a country like Hungary, I see they're just closing the borders. So that's just possible. We can just close the borders. Then you can hang out here a bit the roast rooster, but my party, the PVV, stands up for the Netherlands. We stand up for the Dutch. We say close borders, close internal borders and introduce border controls. If we don't, we're just gonna go down.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u19	I hear Mrs Faber on the one hand saying that "a deal is a deal" is very Dutch. On the other hand, she says that because Hungary does not comply with the agreement, we, the Netherlands, must throw that Dutch value overboard. It may be me, but I can't follow Mrs Faber's story anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u20	Then let's not talk about the welfare state, because you broke all the health care laws to please the VVD. I think that is very special of Mrs Barth. You've got to have the guts to say it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u21	Now I'm being provoked a little bit. Can Mrs Faber tell me how much of the national budget next year will be spent in the Netherlands on health care and social security, in other words on the welfare state?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u22	The point is that the welfare state is being demolished, while at least 1.5 billion is being earmarked for asylum reception. We are opposed to that. We believe that the Dutch care is being broken down and that the elderly are being put in the cold. Nevertheless, 1.5 billion are going to the asylum shelter. We are opposed to that. We believe that this 1.5 billion should go to our own people, the elderly and the disabled, instead of destroying the whole of care, as you have done in recent years. You can't deny that you did. You've just worked on it with your wits.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u23	Mrs Faber needs a lot of words to make it clear that she does not know the answer to my question. That's why I'm gonna give it to you myself. Over 58% of the state budget will be spent next year on health and social security. Last year it was 57%. Expenditure on the welfare state goes up under this cabinet, not down. With the 1.5 billion for the reception of refugees in the Netherlands to which Mrs Faber refers, we could not keep care in the Netherlands running for more than a week. So let us stick to the facts in this debate and continue to see it in proportion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u24	That was Mrs Barth. The PvdA dream of a Netherlands without Dutch is coming true more and more. Thousands of lucky seekers come in every week. While our elderly people, who have contributed their whole lives to the Netherlands, are being put in the cold, those who have not contributed a penny are being warmly welcomed. And it goes on and on. This summer alone, at least half a million migrants crossed the Mediterranean. Germany expects at least 1 million migrants. Some form of direction is completely lost. EU President Donald Tusk warns that millions of migrants are on the move and want to come to Europe. And then the Prime Minister also points out that the availability of funds will never prevent the organisation of decent care. Does this Prime Minister realize he's talking about taxpayers' money? These asylum seekers have the right, after obtaining a residence permit, to a residence, a social housing, with priority. In the city of The Hague they make it all the way. There, the absurdly fast deadline of three months is reduced to four weeks. Dutch people who cannot afford a house for sale and who have been on the waiting list for years for a social rental house, see with their eyes how they continue to sink away on the waiting list and are not really eligible for a house anymore. Young people, who would like to start a family, should just stay in the attic with Mom and Dad, and the families who can't afford the mortgage will just lie under the bridge.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u25	Of course, it is very easy to play groups against each other here: if there were no asylum seekers, there would be more money for other groups. I would like to ask Mrs Faber one more question about the need for asylum. The Refugee Convention was concluded precisely to ensure that people can always flee their country if it becomes too unsafe there. That can happen to Mrs Faber and me here. It has not been so long since this happened in Europe. Does she not agree that the possibility of someone fleeing their country and applying for protection elsewhere should always exist? If that is the case, why should 100% of the refugees be taken care of in one or two small countries and not be distributed fairly among the rest of the countries?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u26	With open borders, refugees can come in unbridled. This undermines our welfare state. We should not allow that. We must stand up for the Dutch. We cannot allow this flow of refugees, which is disrupting society as a whole, to come.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u27	I have not yet heard an answer to my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u28	Mrs. Strik, take a step back from the microphone, otherwise it will be far too loud.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u29	I have not yet heard any answers to my questions, and I would like to have them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u30	Then I'll be very clear. We say no more fugitives.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u31	This means that the PVV believes that it is not necessary for people to escape their country if they need it because it becomes too unsafe in that country.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u32	People can flee their country. We are in favour of shelter in the region. Someone from Syria can go to Turkey, but not to Europe and not to the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u33	Finally, Mrs Strik.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u34	I also asked a second question. So you say they can go to Turkey, where 2 million refugees are already being received. Why should only those neighbouring countries be responsible for the reception of these refugees? Why should not other countries also ensure that the right to asylum is maintained?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u35	It's a regional problem. It's a problem for that region over there. We can't take the whole world on our necks. You don't solve the problems by moving the problems to the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u36	If the Netherlands had acted as the PVV over the centuries, we would have been a very poor country. The Netherlands has been enriched by all the refugees who have come to the Netherlands in the past centuries and who have made the country better, artistically, economically and in all respects. I heard in a subtlety that Mrs Faber has already sharpened the propaganda language. It's not about asylum seekers anymore, it's about asylum seekers. She should only explain that for a moment; as if these people were saying: I have that right. They ask and it is up to us to judge it and then award it. That's different. What about that "no more refugees" and "close borders"? How should we imagine that in the Netherlands? Should we cancel the Schengen Convention? And then what? Does Mrs Faber really think that if we put barriers at the border near Arnhem, Nijmegen and Maastricht, there will no longer be an asylum seeker in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u37	At least it's gonna be a lot less. At least they're not encouraged anymore, like they are now. Now it is said, also by Mrs Merkel, that everyone is welcome. It's got a sucking effect. If you take a stand and say you don't want to have a fugitive with you anymore, then the tamdam really is going that way, and people don't come here so fast anymore. That will certainly have a inhibiting effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u38	If you imagine that these barriers will be introduced again, what do you think that will have an effect on our economy and on the free movement of persons, if you want to go on holiday or if you want a truck in or out of the Netherlands? Do we have to abolish that again?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u39	This economy goes better if we close the borders to these lucky seekers than if we let everything in unbridled. More than half of the people we already have are in the welfare sector and are not going to contribute anything, so that's just going to cost us money and that's really not going to enrich us.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u40	Finally, Mr De Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u41	I get the impression that Mrs Faber has not thought about her own party's proposal. The borders are closed, what does that mean for the Dutch and for the economy and also for asylum seekers? She doesn't have a beginning to answer it. It is not a bad thing if she makes a radical proposal, but it would be very helpful in the debate if she did that a little well thought out.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u42	I would like to say a few words to Mr De Graaf. This unbridled entry of these asylum seekers, of these lucky seekers, who are not going to contribute anything to Dutch society, will only cost us money. It has a disruptive effect on care, on education, on housing. Then you should not say that our economy would deteriorate if we were to cancel Schengen. I don't believe any of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u43	Mrs Faber says the boundaries must be closed. Does she know the expression: it has lingered on the thread? That's Brabants.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u44	I beg your pardon?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u45	It's stuck to the wire. Do you know that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u46	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u47	No. I can invite Mrs Faber to go to Achel with me. Does she know where Achel is?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u48	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u49	No, I didn't. That's where they make really good trappist. That's right on the border of Brabant and Flanders. There's a monastery. There's an exhibition there about 100 years ago. Then, in order to prevent people from Belgium from fleeing to the Netherlands even longer, a thread was stretched from the Zwin, near Knokke, to the suburbs of Aachen. That was the wire. To make it all a bit more difficult, 2,000 volts were put on it. Hundreds of people stuck by the wire and died. Those are close boundaries. Someday the chairman of the PVV group will have to look into history to think about what it means when you close the borders like that. Reference was just made to the Berlin Wall. If you went there, you'd see all those vopo's. They had a wire, too. You could've stuck to that, too. Is that really what the PVV wants? I can't imagine. I can't imagine the voters of the PVV would want that. What is it that makes everyone so hateful at the PVV that we have to keep those people out at all costs, like they're our biggest enemies while they're on the run? At the PVV, Jesus Christ was not even given asylum.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u50	I would like to comment on Mr Kox. He is ridiculing the PVV and saying that borders are closed and Schengen can't be cancelled. 70% of its citizens want to introduce border controls again. He's not just putting me and the PVV away, he's also putting away his own supporters, 70% of whom want to. I find that very special.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u51	We have a room here. The purpose of this Chamber is to debate. The problem with the PVV is that it does not debate but debit. Whatever you ask, you always get a pre-programmed answer back. Let the chairman of the PVV simply answer what she means by a close border. The only dense border we have ever had so emphatically was from 1915 to 1918, a wire on the border of the Netherlands, where people literally lingered on the wire. Or is the chairman of the PVV not going to respond to that again? Then we really can't have a debate. Then perhaps we can get the contribution of the PVV in writing in the future, because if we never respond to it, the debate will not really come to its own.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u52	I'm gonna let that go a little bit from Mr. Kox on the procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u53	Then I'll give it a try. As a great believer in democracy and dialectics, I think that we should really do our best to allow this to be a debate. That "borders closed" of the PVV, how am I supposed to imagine? Does this mean that companies from Korean, Japanese, Syrian or Arabic homes are no longer allowed to settle in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u54	What does that have to do with "borders closed"?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u55	"Close borders" doesn't that mean no more foreigners?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u56	A foreigner is a company?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u57	The owners or management of a foreign company. You're not allowed to do all that anymore?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u58	Mrs Barth is doing a great deal of theatrical work here, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u59	Now answer my question. You say that the borders must be closed. Then I ask you whether foreign companies wishing to establish themselves in the Netherlands are no longer allowed to enter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u60	You compare people to companies. You compare apples to pears. What do you mean?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u61	People work in companies, Mrs Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u62	Mrs. Barth and Mrs. Faber, will you let each other speak? You know it from me: two or up to three times an interruption on the same subject and then it's over. If the answer doesn't come, it's tant piss. Then it just doesn't get there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u63	Then I hope that Mrs Faber will take up this debate and answer my question as to whether 'borders close' means that foreign owners or foreign employees of foreign companies in the Netherlands would no longer be welcome, if it were up to the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u64	We have nothing against foreign companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u65	It is good to hear that these boundaries remain a little open. Otherwise you would have made 900,000 Dutch unemployed on the spot.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u66	I have a question for Mrs Faber. She has not responded to history a few times, because she said that it is complicated enough at the moment. I refer to her own remark that she goes for Dutch values. My question is: where do these Dutch values come from? Then we are discussing a subject that she herself has raised.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u67	Dutch values are based on our Christian and Jewish culture.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u68	If so, I think you're referring in particular to the Torah and the Old and the New Testament. The special thing about these scriptures is that there is an incredible amount of attention and love. I use that word very emphatically for foreigners. If that is linked to the somewhat harsh argument so far, I think you will understand that I am a little surprised, because those Jewish-Christian values have an eye for that stranger. I ask you to reflect on that in this Chamber of reflection.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u69	I would not like to have a theological discussion, but I would like to say one thing to Mr Schaap. The merciful Samaritan only helped one person and not millions. That is beyond our capacity. When we talk about Christian values, we should not exchange the Dutch people for an Islamic population.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u70	Mr Schalk, one more interruption on this point, because I fear that we will be at an abstraction level that goes a little further than the General Political Reviews.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u71	I will not start a theological discussion either, but one-on-one would be 17 million out of 17 million. That won't be your intention. In other words, perhaps it is good to check again what is indeed in that likeness of the merciful Samaritan.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u72	At this point, however, I should like to say a few words.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u73	But no different from what I just said.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u74	No, I'm sure. Mr Faber makes a distinction between those in need who are not welcome and those looking for happiness who want to engage in business activities here, who are welcome. Can it indicate why economic refugees who want to establish a business here for economic reasons, for example on the Zuidas, are welcome for the PVV, while refugees who are in need because they are fleeing the war are not welcome?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u75	The difference lies in what one can contribute to Dutch society. An economic refugee doesn't add anything. A company can add something.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u76	What someone can contribute to the Netherlands is thus only expressed in economic terms, in money, at the PVV. If you make a contribution in money, you're welcome. Every other contribution does not count and is not welcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u77	Those are the words of Mr Koffeman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u78	No, that's a question I'm asking you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u79	It's true, there's more than just money. However, we must not forget that economic refugees only cost money. All this is paid with tax money that is coughed up by the Dutch taxpayer. You have to deal with that very carefully. We're just gonna succumb under the burden that's coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u80	I now give Mrs Faber the opportunity to pursue her speech for some time in a row.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u81	Thank you, Madam President. While the municipalities are still working hard to process the decentralisations, the Empire simply throws the problem over the fence at the municipalities. Municipalities cannot cope with care, both financially and in practical terms. Hardly any houses are available. While 800,000 people in the Netherlands are no longer able to pay for their own risk of health care, asylum seekers receive free care. They go to the doctor for free, they go to the dentist for free, they get free education, they get free legal aid, and they also, as if it's not enough, get free living money. However, nothing is free. The hardworking Dutch, pensioners and savers pay the bill. An account that comes after they've already been undressed by this cabinet. While asylum seekers get everything for free, our pensioners are deteriorating. For example, in three years 60,500 nursing homes have been removed and domestic help has been halved. For this cabinet, asylum seekers are more important than our elders. It's from an unprecedented shamelessness. To the extent of disaster, these migrants also take their own culture, which is intertwined with Islam. Islam already shows its true face in the shelter camps in Europe. In the shelter camps there is Islamic terror. There are fights. Women and girls are raped by fellow asylum seekers and are victims of forced prostitution. Single-traveling women are seen as loose game and humiliated. How does the Prime Minister think these asylum seekers will react outside of the reception camp, where they see emancipated western women wandering with flapping hairs, walking around in summer in a wonderfully free and casual summer dress? There's still a lot to integrate. That will not happen, however. Residents of Apeldoorn are advised not to give alcohol and wear appropriate clothing when they get an asylum seeker at home. So it's already bent behind the front door. That's where you're being forced on Islam. This Prime Minister is destroying our own culture. That is perhaps also the reason, if you can believe the noises on the street, why this Prime Minister has long been no longer the prime minister of all the Dutch. He sits on the plush, but that's only to please a handful of PvdA voters, a few lost VVDs and the massive influxing asylum seekers. By not closing the borders, this Prime Minister plays with the safety of the Dutch people. IS says to send terrorists on the boats towards the free west. Reports from Eurojust confirm this. In Germany, Salafists recruit potential terrorists among asylum seekers. They offer Sunnis help and shelter, and then ask them to fight for what they think is right: heads-up to Islam. This is what the Netherlands is waiting for. The people are aware of this. She's resisting the azc's in her backyard. That resistance is increasing. This can be seen not only in the polls but also on information evenings that are open to all interested parties. Critical sounds are ignored as much as possible and the head down. That's not because it's all so nice with the residents. Apparently tough mayors don't dare to discuss it. Those tough mayors will work on making the Netherlands one big azc. To ensure that the Dutch people go through the pump anyway, the pro-asylum searchers club has invented a number of mantras. For example, we would need a massively skilled workforce. And just leave them among the asylum seekers. At least that's what the chairman of the COA says, Gerard Bakker. He has taken a good look at the flow and indicates that a third person has a university degree and a third person has a course at HBO/MBO level. How he got here is not clear. He should have the numbers, but they are not shown. It is strange that these highly educated people will not be able to build a good life in the safe countries in their own region that they have already travelled through. Or are the corresponding diplomas as easy to obtain as the Syrian passport of Malik Ramadan, alias Mark Rutte? Anyway, the image that Syrian professors are coming to rescue our country massively is wrong. This is also apparent from German figures. The asylum seekers themselves state the following. 11% didn't go to any school. 25% only went to primary school. Furthermore, it appears that 12% is illiterate. That's gonna be something with learning Dutch. 15% indicates having completed higher education. However, in the Netherlands these diplomas are often not recognised. I wonder why. That's gonna work with lifelong learning here. This islamic invasion will increase the influence of Islam in the Netherlands and we will fail just as much as the Islamic world. Dutch society will impoverish, pollute and harden. We don't want our country turned into a desert. We do not want to exchange the Dutch people. This flood of asylum seekers must be stopped. The borders must be closed and asylum seekers must be accommodated in their own region. You don't solve the problems by moving them. The asylum seekers themselves must work in their own region. What is this government doing, however? She is being dictated by her brothers in Brussels. It is being dictated to give free passage to the Islamic invasion. The boundaries of this cabinet must be wide open and the influx must be welcomed at Merkel's level. This cabinet places the interests of asylum seekers above the interests of the Dutch. This policy is supported by almost all Members of Parliament. These MPs were elected by the Dutch people. They have the mandate of the Dutch electorate. These fake people's representatives are leaving their voters horribly in the lurch. They abandon our elders...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u82	Mrs Faber, I do not wish to hear the word 'fake representative'. I also want you to take this back.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u83	Madam President, I will not take it back, with all due respect to you. This is outside of you as a person. I think they're fake people's representatives because they're not doing what they're supposed to do. They are supposed to protect the Netherlands, but they do not. They're delivering the Netherlands. The Dutch people are simply exchanged for an Islamic population. With all due respect to you as a person, I'm not gonna take it back.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u84	If Mrs Faber and her associates think this is a fake parliament, then you wonder why they're sitting here, but that aside. Does Mrs Faber agree with me that it is also typically Dutch when Parliament represents the diversity of political opinions in our country?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u85	All MPs are sitting here with a mandate from their voters, with a mandate from the Dutch. They should defend the Dutch interest, not the interest of millions of refugees who come from the Middle East and take the Islamic culture with them. We just shouldn't want that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u86	I get it again, but we're almost used to that now, not an answer to my question. I'll keep trying, though. Does Mrs Faber agree with me that the diversity of political views should be represented in a typical Dutch parliament and in an open democracy? Or does it think that this Parliament is only a real parliament if we have become a dictatorship and must all find the same thing as the PVV? In my view, it would only be a fake parliament if we had to find the same movement as one. I cannot call a party the PVV; it is not democratic itself. It's only a fake parliament when one movement in the Netherlands matters what's real and what's not real and what's good and what's not good.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u87	I think it's all the other parties who think we should have one opinion. There are not so many differences between the parties here, except between the PVV and the other parties. Your party, Mrs Barth, is afraid to take a stand. The PvdA does not dare to say: we are going to stand up for the Dutch. No, the PvdA is always around everything. The same applies to care. In this respect, the PvdA does not dare to take a stand either, and that also applies to refugee policy. The PvdA prefers to open the borders, to welcome the refugees with open arms, but did those refugees give the PvdA a mandate? No, that mandate has been given by the Dutch in the country, who no longer want shelter, who do not want azc in their backyard. That is what the people's representatives here are doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u88	Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u89	No, Mrs. Barth. I want to end this. I'm declaring this out of order. I cannot delete the Acts on this point, but I find this out of order. This is gonna be a nasty bunch of screaming. I don't feel like it. It's not your fault, Mrs. Barth. It's about the way your question is answered, but I don't want that. I will give Mrs Strik and Mr Hermans and Mr Kuiper the opportunity to ask one question on this subject, but then we will stop.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u90	Mr President, I would very much like to finish my interruption. I understand your position. I agree, but I also agree, especially when it comes to something so important, that we should not smother the debate in this house.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u91	I'm not smothering the debate. I'm just not in the mood for a vulgar swear-off. You're finished now, Mrs Barth. I will give Mrs Strik and Mr Kuiper an opportunity to ask a question. Mr Hermans is against that. Mrs Faber then replied, in so far as she saw the need to do so, and then ended her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u92	Mr President, I support your request to Mrs Faber to take back her "fake parliament" qualification. With this qualification, it undermines the authority of parliament and thus also of the rule of law. I find that unacceptable.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u93	I stand here with a mandate from my constituents. I am deeply convinced that they think very differently from Mrs Faber. They also represent very different values from Mrs Faber. I do not want to be called a fake representative here. As far as I am concerned, this is also the end of the debate with the PVV. Mr President, you asked Mrs Faber to withdraw her qualification. Then you indicated that you were declaring things out of order. What does that mean?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u94	You are asking me for an answer. I asked Mrs Faber to take back the term 'fake-people's representation'. She didn't say "fake parliament." She said "fake people's representation." I asked Mrs Faber to take that back, because I think this is the axe at the root of what we in the Netherlands know as representative democracy. As elected representatives of the people here, they have taken the oath or promise to be called 'fake representation', I think we are very far from home. I also think, Mrs Faber, with all due respect, that you do not live up to your own presence here, because then you will also be a fake representative of the people. Then it is really strange that the word is still being spoken here. I believe that we should honour our representative democracy. This also means that everyone can express the opinion he or she has. Today, general political considerations are being discussed. The refugee problem is an important part of this today. So far we have also discussed this with the representatives of the people who have spoken, but I do not want to talk about 'fake-people' representatives. I don't want a swearing-out story about who does and what doesn't. A decent debate is taking place here, with representatives of the people sitting here with a fair and proper mandate from our electorate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u95	I'd like to respond to this, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u96	Shortly, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u97	I am not a fake people's representative, nor am I my colleagues from the group. A fake public representative doesn't do what he or she has to do. He doesn't stand up for the Netherlands. The PVV will. Then it's still like that...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u98	Mrs Faber, I turned off the microphone, because you are doing exactly what I have just talked about and what I do not want. I have said that we are a parliament elected by the electorate. I do not wish to do anything about that. You may respond briefly, but if you say that your other colleagues are fake people representatives, but your colleagues in your group are not, I simply do not want to hear that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u99	Mr President, freedom of expression is a great asset. I get to use it in this house. So I'm sorry you turned off my microphone. If you tell me you want to say something, I'm polite enough to keep my mouth shut. Then I'm really not interrupting you. So you don't have to turn off my microphone, because I do have that much discipline. Let's talk about the country's polls. 64% of those questioned do not want the refugees to be helped. Most people don't want azc. However, most of the people's representatives here do not interpret that story. I will continue with my speech. The PVV Group believes that voters are still being horribly abandoned by the representatives of the people. They're abandoning our elders. They are abandoning our young people because their future is becoming ink black. They abandon all women. They will degrade to second-class inferior beings. That's why it has to be different. The Dutch interest must be at the forefront. That's why the borders have to be closed. That is why we must get out of Schengen, we must take control of our own borders, and we must stop receiving asylum. No more asylum seekers. None! We must stop with the billions to Brussels, development aid and asylum seekers. We need to resist. It doesn't happen here in this room. People don't take responsibility here. They're abandoning the Netherlands. But the people are sick and tired of being heard from. I'm rounding up. The EU loves Islam. Both ideologies find each other, because they have nothing to do with democracy, because they both have nothing to do with freedom of expression and because they both want to impose a way of life. Islam is submission, the EU is submission. Like communism, Islam and the EU are ideologies. The players have changed, but the game is still played in the same way. And all this is sealed with the socialist brother kiss.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u100	Mr. Chairman. I'm glad the Prime Minister and his team are with us today. That's a good time to say thank you for all the government's efforts. Hard work hasn't missed it. The Prime Minister has already been told that there will be five years tomorrow. That's pretty good in the Netherlands. I therefore congratulate him warmly. I am blindly assuming that after the end of the evening a round will be served by the Prime Minister, so that there is at least one kind of profit from this debate. Some, like Mrs Barth, will drink at the first lustrum. Others will think: five years has been good. But at least the drinking can connect us, and perhaps it is necessary, especially after the previous speaker. The Prime Minister did it first with the CDA and the PVV, but that has been forgotten by the PVV, now with the PvdA and occasionally with D66, the Christian Union, the SGP and GroenLinks. So we certainly can't call him single-handed. He hasn't seduced my party yet, but he can always take a chance. Nine votes in this room isn't nothing. By the way, my party is not unique either; we now rule in half of the big cities and in half of all provinces. With the exception of the PVV we do find almost all parties somewhere in some coalition. Just to be clear, we are still in opposition, and we would like to be the largest left-wing party here as well. In all modesty, I only mark it twenty years after our entrance into this Chamber. The government is putting forward a budget that is not ours. There, that's out. We believe that with EUR 262 billion, you can really do much more than what the government is proposing to us in its 2016 budget. And you can also raise the necessary money more fairly. It's a matter of choice. The Netherlands can also emerge from the crisis by social means, although this crisis, caused by the large money, permanently robs society of perhaps 8% of our gross domestic product, according to the Millions Note. That's a lot of money, and we're gonna feel it for years. Ultimately, however, we are not so much short of money as plans, plans in which social cohesion, equality and sustainability are means and goals rather than constantly the child of the account. We are opposed to that in this budget. The beckoning perspective is missing. It's a useless budget. The government says it's going better, that our country has "deprived itself from the crisis." But a lot of people don't notice that. This country has certainly not become more social since VVD and PvdA are doing it together. Unemployment is higher, the duration is more persistent, the number of permanent jobs is lower, the number of flex jobs is more numerous, the public sector is smaller and the income and capital disparities are greater. A lot of tasks have been thrown over the hedge of the municipality without enough money. A lot of people know how to cheat. They see: liberal and social on one pillow, the devil really sleeps in between. And that devil seems to be waking up now, too, measured by all the crookedness between what flew each other so unexpectedly in the arms in 2012. Love is gone, only the children are better: the voters are still holding the couple together. In the event of separation, they are threatening to run away massively, and that is not good. So the cabinet is still there and talking to us today about its 2016 budget. That is quite exciting this time, for a coalition that knows only 21 out of 75 seats in this Chamber behind it. That's less than tight. The Prime Minister can seduce some of them, but can he take on many of them all the time? That is the question for the coming year. Without the blessing of this Senate, there is no budget that goes on, says our Constitution. Or else could it be? Maybe. On 3 November, this Chamber will be able to give the green light to a state committee to look at our two-chamber system. We're in. That doesn't apply to the drawing board plan to turn the entire Binnenhof into one huge building well and lock the place down for about six or seven years. We are against that. The States-General houses have been here since 1588 and should remain so. As we celebrate on Friday that the States-General has existed for 200 years in the Kingdom, we also remember, of course, that in the Republic the States-General were our highest state body. This thanks to Johan van Oldenbarnevelt, who forced it off before he later lost his head in the Binnenhof and was buried somewhere in our cellars. As a tribute, we propose that his image, which is still somewhat lost along the Hofvijver, move to the Binnenhof. Doesn't cost anything, says a lot. If that's a good plan, I'll ask the Prime Minister. The largest monument in the Netherlands may also belong to the Binnenhof, but because of its size it certainly does not fit. And it is also fine in the geographical center of the Netherlands, on the Amersfoortse Berg. If you don't know exactly, you can go to Mrs Faber, because she grew up next door. The monument reminds us of the thanks of our Belgian neighbours for the shelter that the Netherlands offered them during the First World War. More than 1 million Belgians then came to hide with us, while our country itself had only 6 million inhabitants, say a refugee relationship as it now exists in countries such as Lebanon and Jordan. 101 years ago, the Netherlands was really flooded by refugees, Mrs Faber. And that the Netherlands was unprepared, bad at cash and balanced on the neutrality cord. Social legislation, social housing, social care, democratic supervision, it all had to be invented. Furthermore, the Flemings were mostly Roman Catholic and the Netherlands, at least in its nature, was mainly Protestant. The fact that our people were able to do that job at the time should make us proud of our grandparents and great-grandparents. Looking away was not an option then, nor is it now. I do not envy the Prime Minister and praise him for his efforts. But doing your best is not enough; we need action and results. Perhaps the Prime Minister could be inspired by Pieter Cort van der Linden, the only liberal who preceded him in his office. He knew the tidal wave of Belgian liberals in 1914... I mean, Belgian flies, was that a freudian slip or was it a joke? It is important that we take account of the fact that there is a need to take account of the fact that there is a need for the European Parliament and the Council to take account of the fact that there is a need for the European Parliament and the Council to take the necessary measures to ensure that the European Parliament and the Council are fully involved in the process and to carry out real reforms, from the introduction of universal suffrage I just want to say that there are liberals who really know how to do something about it. Why, so I ask the Prime Minister, did his cabinet, and the European Union as such, not arrive at the flow of refugees and did it not prepare, while millions of Afghans, Iraqis and Syrians have been hunted across the borders of their country for years? Is the government prepared and able to come up with a real plan of action quickly? After the Dutch Team the light is on red for thoughtless and oversized shelter. The argument that small reception sites are not profitable is, with respect, bullshit. Disasters are not cost-effective, at best bearable. That is why my group wants transparent and small-scale shelter from now on, so that neighbourhoods, neighbourhoods and villages do not get caught up and feel flooded and newcomers get a chance to get home sooner. And let's immediately stop demolition and selling rentals and replace the landlord's tax with an obligation to build for corporations. That's when real houses come in. Mrs Barth will certainly agree with me on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u101	Does Mr Kox also object to large-scale shelter if this is done with the consent of the city and the population concerned, as in his own Nijmegen, where the SP is also in charge of the regime?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u102	Yeah, I still don't think it's a good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u103	Why not?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u104	Experience has shown that large-scale reception is bad for integration, because large-scale reception is difficult to understand by residents. You'll only get 500 neighbors in one go, like my neighbors get 400 new neighbors. The chances of this being abused by people who simply want to beat up the oppositions among the people are also great, we know after the previous contribution. All in all, small-scale reception according to my party is more functional, better and more likely.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u105	I understand that Mr Kox prefers small-scale reception, but the question was whether he believes that we should stop large-scale reception. That would be a major problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u106	I think we should start organizing small-scale shelters from now on. Many municipalities also indicate that they are willing to do so. They have to do it eventually. So we should not continue with this large-scale reception. What we have now cannot be closed tomorrow, but I suggest that we organise what we still have to get, in the form of small-scale care. And again, the idea, also of the COA, that this is not profitable, I find totally wrong. The term "profitable" is really wrong in this discussion. Disasters cannot be made profitable, as I said, disasters can only be made more bearable. I say this because the argument is used that, without large-scale reception, reception will be too expensive. However, if you have to help people in need, you should not say: we can all afford it. That's not good. That is my view, Mr De Graaf. Mr. Chairman. My group understands that many people are uncomfortable, especially those who suddenly get hundreds of neighbours from a distant and foreign country and fear that this will be at the expense of themselves. Their lives have not become easier after years of unnecessary austerity and short-sighted dismantling of public services. They deserve the government to show that it understands their problems as well. Does the Prime Minister agree with us that choosing to receive refugees should never be a choice against the legitimate wishes of its own people and that it is not a question of whether or not it is a question of whether or not it is a question of whether or not it is a question of whether or not it is a matter of whether or not it is a matter of whether or not it is a matter of whether or not it is a matter of whether or not it is a matter of whether or not it is a matter of whether or not it is a matter of whether or not? My group does not understand those who say that a problem is not a problem as long as it is not their problem. They're calling out to have a fence around our land. Those who put refugees away like testosterone bombs with beards, who attack our wives and daughters. He yells out looking away from reality. Those who have the guts to leave people on the run to their fate, to curse, to insult and to threaten. That's staggering and embarrassing. I don't really remember ever doing this in this country before. Of course, when Catholics came from Belgium to the Netherlands, there were also chants, but in my opinion it has never happened this way and with this intensity. In any case, I am ashamed to do so. Does the Prime Minister share our view that those who do should take a good look in the mirror? Shouldn't they be wondering why they've gotten so far away from our parents, grandfathers and grandparents, grandparents and great-grandparents? When it came to it, they could be merciful and solidarity. A thoughtful approach demands that we now do what is necessary to shelter those who are on the run. That's a human duty. If we have to, we'll do that to us, if we can get closer to home. But anyone who calls for 'care in the region' - I am looking at Mrs Faber without having much more money to do so - is hypocritical and in fact calls for 'incarceration in the region'. What can we expect from the government at this point? Now a truth like a cow follows: if you want less refugees, you have to fight less war. Over Syria, bombers fly off and on. They come from countries with different goals, literally and figuratively. Every new bomb makes more people run. We say stop bombing. Go invest our money in care, both in the region and with us. Help tackle the financiers of all these wars and put everything on diplomatic solutions, such as an international Middle East conference and the recognition of the Palestinian State. This would contribute to a solution to what is called "the mother of all conflicts" in the Middle East. And urge the Turkish Government to stop all violence in the country, to finally catch the perpetrators of attacks and not to further endanger the forthcoming elections. I believe that an even more unstable Turkey is driving even more refugees towards Europe. Today Syria and Iraq are the fireplaces that attract our attention. Last year we were under the spell of the civil war in Ukraine and the new European division resulting from it. Now the violence seems to stop there and Minsk II counts again. Regional elections are coming and the necessary federalisation of the country seems to be in sight. It's bad things got so out of hand. Are we going to reduce the reciprocal sanctions between Europe and Russia, as the peace in Ukraine hopefully returns? My group is in favour of this because the sanctions are counterproductive and they increase the contradictions. That's very dangerous for everyone. Meanwhile, a lot of people in our country are waiting for justice for the victims of MH17. The Research Council for Security is finished presenting its report today. Can the Prime Minister tell us how we're going to proceed now? I have one final question in this connection. In early 2014, the Association Agreement with Ukraine set the flames on the ground there. Apart from the outcome of the forthcoming referendum, how are we going to organise this? I would like to ask the Prime Minister whether the postponement of this controversial treaty could contribute to the dampening of the conflict. My group thinks so. According to the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, world inequality is bad for economic growth and a sustainable future. And that inequality is huge. Less than 100 people own more than half of the world's population. Worldwide, we are spending more and more money on combating welfare diseases, while measles and cholera in poor countries are again spreading death and destruction in the absence of vaccination programmes. Cynically, as many people are dying from overnourishment as they are from malnutrition. We have two thirds of all assets in the hands of 10% of the population. That's over 600 billion together. Why do we call that an egalitarian society, I say to Mrs Barth. The Social and Cultural Planning Office says that almost a third of our population cannot come and lag behind. In one of the richest countries of the world, 400,000 children live in poverty. How are we gonna do this? This is all really weird, isn't it? In the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, two weeks ago, the Secretary-General of the OECD congratulated our colleague Tuur Elzinga for his proposals against increasing inequality and for a more balanced distribution of income, prosperity and well-being. Almost the entire assembly supported his remarkable resolution. This room has already received her. I have a question for the Prime Minister. If more equality and more sustainability lead to more growth, why do we not see the plans in this budget? Of course, it clashes with liberal ideology, but it does not mean that people have to suffer. An ideology that doesn't work belongs in the museum and not in government policy. A historian should know that. Worldwide, multinationals are avoiding tax for 250 billion a year. That is as much as our entire budget. It is quite contrary to the claim in the Millions Note that our country is "proactively committed to tackling international tax avoidance." I'm gonna tell the Minister of Finance you're gonna have to have the guts. This colossal theft of community money, which is tax avoidance, is, after all, made possible by the thousands of letterbox companies in our capital, right? Today we read in the newspaper that 17% of firms have joined in the last two years. That too clashes a bit with the statement in the Millions Note. Madam President, the timeometer has been at 7 minutes and 43 seconds for a long time. I don't want to override time, but I think I've been at it for at least eight minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u107	I'll count it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u108	My text should be consistent with time, but I thought it was a little unfair that time didn't go through. I'm moving on. How is it possible that wealthy people in the Netherlands can evade tax for 10 billion a year, while the government demands municipalities to impose household fines on people who do something for another? That's strange, isn't it? The government says that purchasing power is increasing, but I do understand that this does not apply to people without jobs, to people with benefits, to students and to the elderly, and that this is hardly true for people with low incomes. And people who earn much more in euros are far better off than low incomes and middle incomes? At the cash register at the Aldi you have to pay in cents and not percentage, I'll just say to the Prime Minister. The cost of the forthcoming trade and investment agreement with America and Canada is great for democracy and our freedom of regulation. However, the costs are also high for the stability and sustainability of our economy, employment, wages and income distribution. In any case, we want to read the treaty and have it passed on. Can we do that? We don't do blind signs on a cross. Who does? It is certain that the thousands of people who walked through Amsterdam on Saturday were not happy to do so. Our compliments. Climate change is also something that some people think is going to work out in the end. Maybe. But if we don't, we'll be looked at by our offspring. Where were you, Daddy? Where have you been, Mommy? Where were you when we turned up our fossil fuels like barbarians because some of them could make big money? Where were you, when the temperature on earth was rising unnecessarily, reaping failed, landing underwater, drowning people and growing inequality in the world? Looking away doesn't help either, especially since there are affordable and sustainable solutions. What will be the government's commitment to the UN Climate Conference in Paris at the end of December? We're not that big, but we can set a good example. We can do that by drastically limiting the pumping up of our natural gas and by closing our coal plants. We can do this by giving full force to renewable energy generation and by putting energy savings at the top of the priority list. We can do that by showing that we can really get rid of our addiction to fossil energy. And we can do that by not bothering Urgenda, but by thanking her. That can give courage to others who have it much harder than we do. What does the Prime Minister think? For the time being we do not even reach the agreements of our own energy agreement, the environmental organisations say. Is that true? During last year's General Reviews, we adopted a motion against the unacceptable restriction of access to justice and legal aid. This motion was followed up by a debate on the state of the rule of law, among other things. Then why is it that we are once again working on cutting back and increasing registry fees? That's very stupid. This could easily cause accidents. The Minister of Justice really can't do that, we think. I am considering tabling a motion on this matter in the second term. I think it is a good thing that the cabinet realizes that a rather united Chamber here believes that the budget of Security and Justice should be reviewed. As it is now, it is a problem here. And I don't think the Cabinet should have that. The introduction of the new Police Act takes twice as long and becomes twice as expensive. The Minister can and will not, of course, charge this failure, but the Cabinet all the more. Policemen feel squealed and criminals love it. "Blue in the cold," is that something for another VVD poster? I'm just making a suggestion. We believe that the Ministry of Security and Justice has finally grown out of its coat and that it should be reduced to a human dimension. Security and justice have a lot to do with each other, but they don't fit under one hat. Get the Home Secretary to bring in the police. This makes his life more exciting and the lives of the rulers in the remaining part of the Ministry of Justice much more bearable. May I also suggest to the House that its second parliamentary inquiry should be on the state of the rule of law? It's better to watch in time than to complain late. We have already had good discussions in this Chamber and such parliamentary research could be a good follow-up. It should be clear to the Prime Minister that the budget for security and justice in this form will not be supported by my group. It's just a know-it-all. Market forces in care destroy more than you love. That's what a lot of people think. My party therefore calls for basic public insurance with income-related contributions and without own risks. This will allow a fairer distribution of costs, guarantee access to care and eliminate market forces. Unfortunately, the policy is still going the other way. That too is a question of accident; we have seen it here before. The budget for health is not going to be approved in this form either, but it is not yet December. We will also assess all other budget chapters on their impact on social cohesion, equality and sustainability. We hope that a lot of repair work will be done across the street. The better that happens, the easier we'll have it here later. We will also decide on the Tax Plan in December, but let me warn the Prime Minister that it will not receive the support of my group in this form. This country needs a far-reaching review of the tax system in order to make it more transparent, fairer and sustainable. I refer only to the contribution of many colleagues last year during the General Reviews at that time. Distributing grossly EUR 5 billion at a time when gaps in the public sector are everywhere doesn't really help, aiming at spending scarce money though. We want people with little money to be given more space: workers, but also people with benefits or pensions. This Tax Plan doesn't do that. We also want the highest incomes and the greatest capacities to make a substantially greater contribution to the financing of society. This Tax Plan doesn't ask that. That's why we think it's wrong. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats does not consider this budget to be positive: too much liberal, too little social. If the Prime Minister, in search of majorities in this Chamber, manages to shift that balance, then we are interested. If not, it's too bad, but unfortunately. I look forward with interest to the Prime Minister's response with my group. My counter's at 14.14. When I tried this text, it really took 17 minutes, so write it down.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u109	I think it's all about 22.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u110	Mr. Chairman. I would like to take a brief look at the research report on bringing down the MH17 that has just been presented. We hope that this report will at least give the next of kin more peace and help deal with their loss. The Dutch Presidency of the EU will start in 11 weeks' time. That Presidency represents a unique opportunity to demonstrate the values the European Union stands for. In this context, I would like to address two pressing issues: climate change and the refugee issue. If we cannot limit the rise in temperature to 2°C, then the consequences are disastrous, for humans, animals and nature. As Jesse Klaver said in Lower House: we are the last generation to do something about the warming. The climate conference in Paris is therefore crucial to ensure that we succeed, with a substantial reduction in CO emissions and a strong commitment to renewable energy and energy saving. Obama wants to take big steps, even China is moving. What about the EU? And what will the cabinet itself convey in Paris? Are we in the vanguard, or are we on the brakes, as a low-fat midget, and where renewable energy is at stake even as a straggler? How will the Netherlands, as President, help to translate the Paris agreements into concrete compliance? As President of the EU, the only way to appeal to other Member States to be credible is to achieve the objectives themselves. That is far from the case. In fact, my group does not see any sense of urgency in this cabinet. It's okay, wait, with the energy agreement, we'll solve everything, so it looks like adage. The National Energy Exploratory refutes this expectation with hard figures. The judge also ordered the Dutch State to do more to reduce CO emissions by 25% by 2020. If we carry on like this, we won't even get 20% by 2020. The cabinet is now challenging the ruling on appeal, but has said by the mouth of Secretary of State Mansveld that the ruling is being carried out. But how, when? My group sees the opposite: only the old coal plants are closed down, the others are going to burn even harder than ever. As a result, the CO reduction in 2030 is only 21% instead of the 40% we agreed on in Europe. It is bizarre that citizens are being called upon to be economical, while we are giving coal power plants and large companies the free hand. The energy tax for large consumers is 1/200th of the energy tax for small consumers. However, renewable energy cooperatives still have to pay energy taxes. That is why my group wants to know how and when the cabinet will vote on the Klever motion. will implement which calls for concrete measures in 2016. The cabinet has a fortune of 5 billion. What can't you do with all that? A lot more windmills and solar panels. The corporations are helping to invest in good, affordable and energy-efficient homes. Chasing the circular economy with new technologies. Three birds with one stone: energy saving, additional jobs and strengthening the economy. With a real greening of our tax system, we can give those innovative green business wings. The cabinet could also have opted for more much needed jobs in care, education and police, and for raising the OS budget back to 0.7% in accordance with the OECD standard and a motion from this Chamber. However, this coalition leaves all the opportunities open and puts the 5 billion into fragmented private burden relief. In this way, as has already been recalled, the cabinet does not achieve half of its ambition to create 100,000 jobs and does nothing about greening. What it does do is increase income inequality: people with high and middle incomes get richer, people without jobs stay at their low levels. What message does the cabinet give with this choice? People on the sidelines, often forced, do not have to take advantage of the prosperity? The cabinet is pushing for more private wealth, while public poverty is increasing. The enormous cuts in health care, social services and appropriate education are hardly alleviated. Our nature and the quality of our environment are also coming to an end. The urgency of the climate problem requires different choices. I call on our Prime Minister to uphold Europe's values and to make the climate one. The refugees also require a courageous and decisive presidency. Europe seemed to have been attacked this summer, when several hundred thousand refugees arrived on the Greek islands and made their way through Europe in search of protection and shelter. Still, it was foreseeable. For more than four years, the European Union has been focusing on the fight against refugees, without investing effectively in the three neighbouring countries of Syria, which together receive 4 million refugees. Especially in Lebanon and Jordan, the shortage of everything grew. How strange is it that after all this time refugees decide to move on without a future perspective? Solidarity with these countries means generous support for the regions, but with money alone we are not there. If we are to be credible in asking the neighbouring countries of Syria to keep their borders open for the new people who have to flee Syria, then we must also relieve the pressure and provide some of these refugees with a safe and legal route to Europe, starting with the vulnerable, the sick, the orphans and the elderly, who do not have the care they need on the ground. Is the Cabinet prepared to advocate an ambitious binding resettlement programme in the EU? This cabinet obviously needs such a stick behind the door. Germany has already invited 30,000 Syrian refugees, the Netherlands has so far only invited 250. Without safe routes, European asylum policy is very cynical. We have agreed fine standards on the guarantees for asylum seekers on paper, but they will only apply once they have reached European territory. That is exactly what we have made as difficult as possible. Walls have been erected, and the neighbouring countries have been persuaded to tighten up their border controls and to take back migrants who happened to have travelled through their country. We do not issue visas to refugees and we fine airlines who bring them to Europe without a visa. By picking up the bridge for refugees, their routes become longer, more expensive and more dangerous. We drive them into the arms of smugglers: their only straw for a single Europe. As long as we make the smugglers rich, destroying boats is a naive plan. More investment in care in the region is urgently needed. However, the venom is in the consideration. The transit countries act as a buffer, so that we do not have to admit refugees or send them back to the region which already receives 90% of refugees. Is this in line with the values of the European Union that the Refugee Convention has enshrined in its own treaty? If it's up to the cabinet, it will. Apart from the legal objections, it is morally unacceptable to shirk our responsibility for that small part of the refugees who come to Europe. Refugees are the result of conflicts arising from poverty, oppression and corruption. After all, the world is too small to turn its back on conflicts with impunity. I miss a prime minister telling this story to our residents. I welcome last Friday's press conference, but it was very late. It is also bizarre that immediately after the Prime Minister has called for calm, his party colleague Zijlstra calls for medical care to be a walhalla for refugees. I assume that the Prime Minister will at least be informed in advance of such misplaced framing? Why does he let it happen that the refugees become a toy of electoral power measurements? I hear many politicians refer to the lack of support for refugees, as if they were completely outside. Of course it isn't. People are informed and influenced by politicians. I would advise the Prime Minister to review Merkel's New Year's speech in response to Pegida's demonstrations at the end of last year. A breath of fresh air! She outlined the context of the global refugee problem, calling it self-evident and feasible for Germany to help and absorb refugees. With her leadership, she has increased the support for refugees in Germany. What does the Prime Minister care to do the same? There are not only protesters in the Netherlands, but also a lot of people who like to contribute to the reception and integration of refugees. I call on the Prime Minister to assume his responsibility as leader of our country. Last year, after taking down the MH17, he showed that he can. Listen to mayors who call for clarity, leadership, proper consultation and small-scale reception. In that sense, I very much agree with Mr Kox's plea. Let integration succeed. The ideas I hear about the austerity of housing, social rights and security of residence are rather inconvenient. This is not related to its legal sustainability. We now have a chance to prevent delays. But that cannot be achieved with the cowardly motto of own responsibility. The business Bavaria, the engine of the German economy, invests uncompromisingly in the integration of refugees. Why? Because it pays, because Bavaria has no ghetto formation. A passive attitude comes back to society like a boomerang. Is the Prime Minister willing to invest more in the guidance of refugees and when does he move-Klaver c.s. implementing which called on the cabinet to create more opportunities for training and work for asylum seekers? The marriage of VVD and PvdA does not succeed in setting a clear course. The house is being rebuilt, but the partners each have their own building drawings. The demolition went one-sided, but now that something new has to arise, the parties are not coming out. It's leading to critical surgeries. I refer to the pgbs, the reorganisation of the police, the decentralization of care and the derailment of ProRail. Since the partners decided to grant each other the freedom, in a final attempt to avert a divorce, the cabinet has gone wild. If it were not so damaging to society, it would still be funny to see how both sides equally fervently defend a cabinet decision with an opposite interpretation. This coalition marriage is a shaky basis for self-consciously addressing current, major international issues and for the European Presidency to have an ambitious climate agenda and an authoritative view on the refugee issue. However, it is not too late. It might be possible just now. That is why we ask the Prime Minister how he is going to work on a convincing agenda in the coming months in order to make the European Presidency a success in any case.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u111	Mr. Chairman. On this day, our thoughts are with the victims and next of kin of the disaster with the MH17. We keep these General Political Reviews in a turbulent time. In the Middle East, just beyond the borders of Europe, there is a bloody battlefield. The security crisis is affecting our existence, creating unrest and putting our political institutions and our people to the test. Until recently, globalisation seemed to indicate the intensification of global communication, the expansion of markets, and the free movement of persons and goods. Today it also points to unbounded violence, increasing insecurity and intercontinental flows of refugees. Every week thousands of refugees from especially Syria enter our country, devastated, traumatized and seeking security. Our intertwining with the rest of the world means that we cannot provide an isolated response to the challenges ahead. The philosopher Amartya Sen has argued that globalisation involves weighing up motives that do not only apply to our piece of earth. Globalisation makes it clear that a justice that is sustainable only in the light of local interests is not justice. Our justice must be wider and wider. The helplessness and displacement of refugees and their desire for security call on our values and our standards of justice. In our belief, the government has the right to uphold and set the tone in this. The refugee crisis raises questions for the population about the allocation of housing and resources. It is being replaced and moved in a situation where a lot of citizens have already been asked for. But it is deeply about what is right and fair and what our values are at critical times. We are confronted with the brokenness and burden of the world and we cannot escape it. It is precisely then that we need to be clear what measure of justice the government is laying down. And then there is this aspect: isn't it our relative prosperity and our ability to share that precisely enables us to help and therefore gives us an extra responsibility? Can the Prime Minister confirm this? Many people are committed to helping refugees. The outpouring of the helping hand is how our civilization may well have to say: how the best parts of our civilization have always understood mercy. It's our expensive duty. I'm proud of the churches that make spaces and volunteers available. The way we welcome people will determine the continuation of their stay. The appeal to society will become stronger now that smaller locations are being looked at and refugees are being received more widely across the country. We share the observations that this is important for the time to come. My group wants to be on the side of those Dutch people, who work for others, care, want to be a world citizen in their place, not to leave mixed neighbourhoods and neighbourhoods, but to seek out the good for society. We can do something as a society, that is true, but those who want to mean something to others must have the support of a government that is reliable and does not abandon people. We need a society that has space, resilience and opportunities to care for its own people and newcomers. But that commitment must be supported by a government that is working on the conditions for this. On this point, my group is critical, which is not today's or yesterday's. Attention has been paid to business, Mr Hermans mentioned the Netherlands as the best country for entrepreneurs and the economy, all beautiful. But we believe that the efforts for the rule of law and society must be much stronger. In the turnaround we're about to experience, we find ourselves. We've neglected too many signals. For new asylum shelters, no additional funding was earmarked in the 2016 budget. Where was the Prime Minister with his head? Can the cabinet indicate where the funds for refugee reception are coming from? A selection is being made of the budget for development cooperation which is already under pressure. Will the Prime Minister state what this means for the Development Cooperation budget and policy programme? The commitment to justice and justice begins close to home. If the police can't handle the work, unsolved cases remain, citizens complain about increasing intimidation, criminal networks have our country as a home base, if there are unguided projectiles on the streets and prisons are cut off, it doesn't reassure citizens. Too many cases remain. I am also thinking of the situation in North Brabant, where an underworld takes control of the upper world. We must resist evil at the beginning. That too is a task for the government. Only then will we have the confidence that we can mean something to the world and that our society can cope with large groups of newcomers. Security starts with a robust legal order, but in this respect the cabinet shows too little ambition. It seemed for a time that this government was going to make a commitment to this. With a new Ministry of Security and Justice, which, however, soon seems top-heavy and has to do it without any real investment. Shouldn't we have used the 5 billion that is now available in some other way? The primary process of justice is under pressure. Access to justice is made more difficult if it is up to the cabinet, by the increase in registry fees and the cost of legal aid. I believe that it has already been stated by means of motions that this is not a passable route. Take it off the table. Cutbacks on security services aren't helping either. Does the government realize that in a world where citizens are deprived of security, the rule of law and the rule of law need to be established? Will the cabinet now strengthen the capacity of police and justice? We would support this Chamber's ruling on the justice budget and the need for more resources. While the cabinet is counting its economic blessings, it's spreading in society. We are not building a participatory society based on the choices of the cabinet. We are facing a growing gap between workers and non-working people, between people with paid jobs and those who participate in society in a different way. According to the Millions Note, workers' purchasing power is greatly improved, and of these workers, two-earner households are far better off than one-earner households. The focus on informal care, attention to the disabled and the elderly is inadequate, while the aim was to increase the level of care for society. From what point of view does the cabinet actually operate? We would like an explanation from the Prime Minister on this point. Our international context is changing considerably and Europe is no longer a safe haven. More than once, my group has asked whether, and when, our defence expenditure is more in line with the NATO standard, which also applies to us. In the Lower House, colleague Van der Staaij has asked for attention for further investments. My question to the Prime Minister is what agreements are being made with the NATO countries and how he sees the trend in spending for himself. Just beyond the borders of Europe there is the heat of battle, but also what resembles the beginning of a new Cold War. I have raised urgent questions about security, justice and protection by law. These are the core tasks of the government. They call for serious maintenance and a serious debate at a time when the government is being tested for its deepest intentions. Those of good will in our society need protection and the firm foundation of justice, which applies to refugees and citizens of that country. We wish the government God's blessing in its important task of shielding society and looking forward to the continuation of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u112	Mr. Chairman. The Millions note came to us extremely early this year. The plans were already in the paper before they were delivered to the group leaders in this house under embargo on a secure memory stick. There was clearly something to celebrate, and it's hard to keep such a secret from you. The history is well known, the whole neighborhood has talked about it. Two guys who can't air or see each other, and never put their ideals diametrically on each other, decided in 2012 to announce that they were moving in together, because they had developed feelings for each other. That could never go well, knew the whole neighborhood, not only because the boys were water and fire, but also because the turret where they were going to live urgently needed renovation. They had saved up for it, there were some windfalls and at the time the big maintenance would start, it turned out that the boys didn't fit very well together. They literally fought each other out of the turret, which reduced their popularity in the neighborhood to a low point. And so they decided to spend the money they had reserved for the renovation, at a splashing divorce party for the whole neighborhood, although they had only been together for three years and had made big plans. A celebration in which they threw the reserved budget for the renovation from a golden carriage between the neighborhood members, hoping that the popularity bought from it could alleviate the suffering of the planned separation. I would just like to say a few words about this bizarre coincidence, because this debate should be about the major renovation, the tax reform, the structural approach to the unemployment problem, a solution to our role in the refugee crisis, in short, about everything that is not going to come of it because the cabinet is divided to the bone between the measures to be taken and which has resulted in the freezing of all plans and the distribution of the available budget through the same quartet game with which the cabinet has been formed. If you give me the day care, I'll give you the hobby hunt. Things like that. This debate is about the largest and most expensive election campaign in history. 49 seats have now fallen into virtual electoral favor with the Labour Party and the VVD on the other side. That's why almost 100 million in gifts is being used per lost seat, to win back that at all costs. An emergency plan, a festive budget that is clearly aimed at helping angry voters to lower their votes. No new maintenance plans that could be torpedoed by the First Chamber, but only one-off gifts that can be rejected by a vote against the various budgets at most. That opportunity is limited in a house that prefers to make substantive considerations. Citizens aren't comfortable with it. The refugee crisis divides society and the coalition to the bone, and the cabinet does not have the beginning of a solution. "Put them all in the Orange" sounds like a sign of great confusion. If the Secretary of State also confesses to the murder of John F. Kennedy on the same issue and the group chairman of the largest government party believes that breast augmentation and liposuction would have an enormous effect on refugees from Africa, it will be difficult to take the issue seriously. Regional reception as set out in the Azmani plan will not get a chance at the moment when you withdraw the money from the region and spend it on refugee shelter in the Netherlands. Mr Kuiper has already spoken about this. Can the Prime Minister promise that no money from the Development Cooperation budget will be used for the reception of Dutch asylum seekers, but that the money will be found in another budget? The fact that the European Central Bank has turned on the money press is not directly evidence of structural economic recovery. Nothing has been done about growth and debt addiction. What we want so much to promise and believe, that everything will be okay, may seem to happen, but is too good to be true. The European and Dutch economies are recovering not because things are really improving, but because Brussels is pumping 1,150 billion in extra euro notes as lubricating oil into the failing economy. EUR 60 billion a month rolls from the European printing press as if it costs nothing; paper is patient. People who are behind the geraniums at home because there is enough work, but too few jobs, do not feel heard by this cabinet, which seems more concerned with itself than with the concerns of the citizens. Even the millions of Dutch people who are worried about animals, nature and the environment do not feel heard by this cabinet, which is fully committed to taxing what we have in abundance: labour. It continues to keep things that are scarce and polluting incredibly cheap. Why do we not tax raw materials and CO? The financial crisis, the banking crisis and the climate crisis make it clear that the system has stalled. People in this country crave a society in which things of real value are central, not money. People would rather have the security of a job and a pension than speculating on that pension to achieve unrealistically high returns. Citizens would like the food they buy to be produced fairly and safely and that the government made such efforts because as an individual you have so little influence on it. They would like the government on our behalf to protect the vulnerable from the law of the strongest. Economic growth is not the solution, it is the problem. Economic growth is an illusion on a planet that doesn't grow along. Economy is the science of scarcity issues, not the science of money. Responsible policies, by definition, remain within the capacity of the earth, for we have only one globe that provides us with everything we need. As long as we accept that all the concerns and desires are expressed in money, in the growth of gross domestic product, we are trapped in a one-sided economic logic, in an economy with the character of a pyramid game that can only continue to play on new investments, even if this new investment comes from inciting the money press in Brussels. The Party of Animals does not believe in golden mountains, not cows with golden horns. Those who claim that manure surpluses could be converted into green electricity, talk poop. The 70 billion kilos of manure that is the annual result of intensive livestock farming is an inebriated brown stream, not a green stream. Keeping the Earth viable cannot wait until the moment it's economically convenient. So far, the cabinet has systematically come up with all the warnings. It is deaf and blind to the influence that shielded markets, huge agricultural subsidies and our aggressive trade policy have on the chances of people in refugee countries. The cabinet remains blind to the geopolitical consequences of our dependence on fossil fuels from unstable regions, looks away from the consequences of arms supplies by Dutch companies and cuts billions on development cooperation. It also facilitates, as a tax haven, the removal of the legitimate income of developing countries, so that they can end up in the pockets of large multinationals with ghost offices on the Amsterdam Zuidas. Mr Kox has already spoken about it: the letterbox companies have grown by 17%. The cabinet says it wants to do something about it, but it doesn't do anything about it. And as a blow to the head, the cabinet refuses, even if the judge imposes it on him, to pursue serious climate policy. TTIP is not a joke of Arjen Lubach, it is a real threat that the EU is literally putting our sovereignty on sale. It leads to even lower prices for agricultural family farm products and even more problems for farmers, seven of whom are already forced to quit a day. Family businesses and SMEs are already struggling to compete with the mega-businesses that make our rural bio-industrial sites. Trade must never be at the expense of the environment, animal welfare, food security, human rights and privacy. Trade must never be at the expense of morality. Human rights and sustainability must not give way to short-term economic interests. Our own rules and our own judges must never be put out of play for the economic interests of multinationals and their major shareholders. Is the cabinet prepared to withhold the Dutch support for TTIP if it turns out that this treaty has no support for the Dutch people? I'd like to get a clear response to that. I'm considering tabling a motion on that point. The Netherlands has most agricultural animals per square kilometre in the world: 450 million animals per year. The romantic landscape with the cow in the meadow has turned into a landscape with megastables. They are manure factories, where transporters run with animals or manure. Living in the countryside can give you Q fever, MRSA or asthma. Meat from a supermarket is not necessarily safe because it contains life-threatening bacteria or viruses such as hepatitis E. The cabinet has had the meat industry produce so much meat and dairy that there are more animals than meat and dairy are bought. This has been experienced by the pig and dairy farmers on the ground. This cabinet is a sausage to farmers with the idea that European money can provide a solution. There must be an end to the system that makes people and animals sick. A shrinkage of livestock and a halt to intensification and industrialisation in the livestock industry is what Group chairman Rutte of the VVD promised in 2009. We could always come and see him for that. That's what I'm doing today. I would like a clear explanation of how the cabinet is going to carry out this fine intention of the past, which should also sound like music to the Labour Party. The coalition agreement does not oppose it. So I would like to be clear about the way in which the cabinet is going to reduce intensive livestock farming. This can help against climate problems, food scarcity and water shortages. There's a world to win.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u113	Mr. Chairman. Of course, I will begin by expressing my condolences to the relatives and those involved in the MH17 disaster. Today, the report on that disaster came out. I also count among those concerned a number of the Members of Parliament present here who lost a colleague last year. At the start of my first General Political Reviews I have some introductory questions to the Prime Minister. Suppose he had to choose between wealth or wisdom, what would his answer be? I'm guessing he'd choose wisdom. Just like once the young King Solomon. You know history: God put him in a dream for the choice of what he wanted to receive. Solomon chose wisdom; hopefully so did our prime minister. I see him nodding. A first W. A second question. Suppose he had to choose between prosperity and well-being. This is close to each other, but there is a clear distinction: prosperity offers opportunities, opportunities, new vistas, rich harvest and full sanding. But well-being goes deeper. It's about feelings, about love and affection, about coming home, about warmth and security. Well-being: a second W. Do I want to play welfare and prosperity against each other? Definitely not. They can and can strengthen each other. Because prosperity is also a great gift. Prosperity is therefore the third W. WWW is as far as I am concerned: wisdom, well-being and prosperity. All three are important, but preferably in this order. That's how they guide my argument. I don't ask these introductory questions for no reason. When I browse through the Millions note, I notice that it is mainly about figures, about economic growth, about point clouds and about purchasing power figures. That makes sense, because wisdom also means that you have your housekeeping in order. Fortunately, after shrinking and crisis, there is a careful recovery of the economy. As a result, there will be some financial space. In doing so, however, the SGP notes that we must continue to reduce public debt. It is good that part of the financial space is used for security within and outside our borders. Defense gets an impulse; the SGP sees that as a good start. But is this enough? The motion-Van der Staaij c.s. in the Lower House on follow-up steps within the framework of the multiannual perspective of the armed forces received broad support there. What follow-up is the government going to take? This debate also fits into the Upper House a more fundamental question. Can the Prime Minister briefly explain what has gone wrong in the past and how these mistakes can be avoided in the future? After all, this is the core task of our government, in which our people are sent on dangerous missions. They deserve respect and it is our duty to take good care of them and equip them. Our military often operate abroad, where disastrous forces fight, where there is struggle between governments or where there are feuds among themselves. The situation in the Middle East remains explosive. The SGP strongly calls for attention to be paid to the only democratic rule of law in that region, Israel. Let us continue to support them and work for good economic relations with them. This promotes peace more than creating an atmosphere of boycott. In this context, I would like to ask one more question. In 2016, the Netherlands will hold the Presidency of the Council of the European Union. Can the Prime Minister indicate how the motion of the House of Representatives on the fight against anti-Semitism in Europe takes shape and substance in the context of the priority set out "a Union that connects"? There are also other forces in the world, namely terror and rebellion: Boko Haram in Nigeria, horrible. IS in Syria, degrading and shocking. The international community must intervene here. The SGP urgently calls on the United Nations to indicate that our priority is not Black Piet, but for example in the fight for persecuted minorities, whose Christians are the largest and most vulnerable group. The international community is struggling with the immense problem of the flow of refugees. Complete population groups stumble towards Europe, immersed in mourning and sorrow, sometimes under wretched conditions. Special wisdom is needed here, even for the longer term. Of course we do not want to import radical Islam, but as a Christian party we do not reject a human being. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats does not have a good word for cowardly attacks on defenceless and traumatised refugees. I am deeply ashamed of the tone that the debate sometimes takes. The SGP calls for a balanced approach. No matter how difficult it is, that means mercy and innancy for the real refugees and justice and care for those who can go back home. I have two questions to ask. Does the Prime Minister consider it realistic to bring about a rapid separation between economic refugees and refugees in connection with war violence? It seems that the police are being asked a little over to ensure security. In the meantime, I understand that there is also talk about voluntary police, but is the government also prepared to consider using, for example, the Royal Marechaussee, so that refugees can feel safe here? After all, we feel very safe here, with the Marechaussee around the corner. The world's problems are great, but there are also problems in its own country. We live in a democratic rule of law, with unprecedented freedom. This is a thank-you note, but the SGP sees that freedom can go a long way. If "my freedom" becomes the measure of things and if everything and everyone is subordinate to one's own, then I want to shop on Sunday, then I want to develop myself and then go for my own right! With pain in my heart I call the position of unborn children. I can't get around it. Their rights don't count. They don't even get freedom. And yet, a child, no matter how early, is a child. Recently I heard a shocking remark about the most unsafe place in the Netherlands. That's the mother shot. There's a 15% chance you won't take it out alive. In our country, 180,000 children are born a year and 30,000 are aborted. That's 15%! These cold numbers really hurt me. Can the Prime Minister try to explain how it is possible that this has become such a high number? Is it really 30,000 emergencies, or is something fundamentally different going on? Does the government have any suggestions for reducing these numbers? Can we promote adequate assistance so that mothers and fathers are not in the cold when they respect the rights of the unborn child? It takes me some effort to change the subject, which is why I only use these fathers and mothers as a bridge to the families. They have been explicitly thought of by this cabinet, given the purchasing power signs. Everyone's getting ahead of themselves for what they pay tribute to. However, the cake must be distributed more fairly. There is a solid inequality when it comes to one- and two-earers. Research shows that those earners are fairly evenly distributed among virtually all political parties. At around average income levels, the single earner pays five times as much tax as the two earner. That's unfair. What is the government going to do about it? We want a participatory society, but paid labour is only part of it. There is also unpaid work, in families, in family care and in volunteering. What shows that the government has respect for people who may not be doing paid work, but who really participate in society? I'll come back to young King Solomon. He asked for wisdom and he received it to a large extent. It struck me that on Prince's Day, our king concluded the sermon of the throne with the words: "You may know supported by the realization that many wish you wisdom and pray with me for strength and God's blessing for you." That prayer is always there, within the SGP, but also in many houses and in many churches. It strikes me that I have never heard praying for wealth, but for prosperity for land and people, for prosperity, and for peace and blessing, for well-being. As the king apparently does, I also hear people praying for wisdom. That wisdom and God's indispensable blessing I sincerely wish the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u114	Mr. Chairman. After the events of the last few weeks, it was only possible that the refugee problem would become the central theme today. 5OPLUS takes a clear position on this issue. We very much disagree with the PVV, which leaves no room in the policy for the care of people and children who are really in need and threatened by death. The Netherlands must contribute to that reception. Firstly, by supporting the reception of refugees in our own region, but also by receiving people in our country, now that the facts are as they are. However, 5OPLUS lays down conditions. First of all, these contributions cannot be unlimited. A small and densely populated country like the Netherlands can handle this only if it happens proportionally. Yesterday we requested the latest figures from the Secretary of State. This shows that over 12,000 refugees have entered our country in the last four weeks. All forecasts are significantly exceeded. What adjusted figures will be included in 2015 and 2016? I would like a concrete answer to that. What budget overruns will then be and how will they be met? Think of the costs of living, nutrition, medical care and education.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u115	I would like to know from 50PLUS whether it also sets a limit on the influx of refugees.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u116	I have no number in my head, but the continuation of my speech will show how we feel about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u117	But you don't have a number?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u118	I think that's impossible, because we're dealing with the situation as it is now. I will also tell the Chamber why I think that things are actually getting a little out of hand. This is due to a lack of policy. But the situation as it is, you can't reverse it and you shouldn't want to reverse it either. I will continue my speech. Secondly, there will have to be support for the population. Residents need to be able to talk about their own living environment. 5OPLUS certainly does not think that the blunder of the Dutch Team could be repeated. We ask the Prime Minister whether he clearly renounces the statement of Secretary of State Dijkhoff that this could happen again. The polls show that voters are divided on this oppressive issue, including among parties other than the PVV. We also note that there has been a change in the debate and that this is mainly because there has been no leadership in recent times. The government parties were in fact directly opposite each other and, above all, as called by the whole of the Netherlands, because of the lack of visible leadership by the Prime Minister. With a variation on the immortal find more than 40 years ago of Hans Wiegel I say: the invisible man exists; there he is! Even if one does not belong to those who under all circumstances call 'own people first', one must understand people who are difficult to get affordable care or who have been on the waiting list for a home for years. The current influx, which is far from over and can increase even in the coming years, risks damaging their prospects for a better future. That is not acceptable either. That is why a strict and fair policy is needed. That must be humane but realistic. There is no such policy and there will be no such policy because of the division between the Labour Party and the VVD, despite apparent agreements. 50PLUS clearly pays attention to the great unfair treatment that the elderly will again receive in 2016. After most of the pensions have been frozen and even cut in recent years, the elderly are falling further in 2016. There is 5 billion to be divided, but there is discrimination purely in old age. In previous tax cuts in 1990 and 2001, the elderly were treated equally and shared in the large reduction. Older people have contributed heavily to the tax increases in recent crisis years. Then why have they not now given proportionate information in terms of the reduction of charges? How can that be justified? The figures show that pensioners have turned in by far the most in recent years. Why do they have to turn in more purchasing power than the workers for years and also next year? What respect can you have for rulers who generalize the elderly as a rich group from whom it can be taken indefinitely? The elderly union ANBO has had a major study carried out. In five years' time, the workforce fell by 1% and pensioners had as much as 6% less to spend. As far as the wealthy elderly are concerned, the same major study shows that in 2013 the average disposable income for workers was €40,500 and for pensioners just over half: €23,800. It is time for the rulers to memorize these figures. Pensioners have found themselves structurally on the path down, especially when you consider that there will be no indexing in the next ten years and that future discounts are now being openly speculated again. Future pensions will also be lower for old but also for young because of the non-indexation and government policy that leads to our beautiful pension system being completely undressed. Will the Prime Minister explain the reasons why pensioners and workers should not be treated equally and why people who have worked hard throughout their lives should not benefit structurally from the 5 billion relief? It is also deeply saddened by the employment of older people. Two years ago, Minister Asscher promised 22,500 unemployed 55-plussers to work. Recently it appeared that this was a poor 6,500 55-plussers. The cabinet applauds the decline in unemployment rates, but they are again very unevenly distributed among the generations. Luckily, youth unemployment fell by almost 3.5% in a year. However, unemployment in the 55-65 age group rose to a record of 8.4%. Of the unemployed 50-plussers, two thirds of them are still out of work after a year. Older people over 55 years of age will no longer be able to work, but they will have to work longer. How does the government explain that the proportion of older people in unemployment in the Netherlands is higher than in other countries, such as the United States, Belgium, France, the United Kingdom, Spain, Sweden, Italy, Germany? Isn't that part of government policy? It is 25% throughout the EU, 42% in the Netherlands. Those are numbers that don't lie. Propagation of longer working hours only makes the situation worse for the elderly. Director Berkhout of De Arbodienst believes that raising the retirement age to 70 years was conceived by people who sit behind their desks all day long. Older people who are physically worn out can no longer find work. Market researcher GfK recently published that the Dutch are not ready to raise the retirement age towards 70 years. People are unprepared for longer working hours and those who do not reach the finish line must finance the income gap themselves. The cabinet should do one more reform: to reverse the increase in the AOW age. Unfortunately, there is only one vision, and it is aimed at the treasury. In fact, this powerless cabinet is only held by one man, namely opinion poller Maurice de Hond. With the VVD on twenty seats and the PvdA on ten seats, these parties must cling together at the edge of the canyon. The outcome is not difficult to guess. The funeral ad can be made up.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u119	Mr. Chairman. The chaos in the world doesn't leave us untouched. I will come back to the question of how to deal with the various parties responsible for this. An important aspect of it is that we can no longer look at it only as outsiders, but that we are also very directly confronted with the consequences and problems that it presents here. Refugee problems are European problems; fortunately, this awareness has now been broken. We can no longer escape a large influx. I am well aware that there is not an immediate reception system for this and that things can go wrong here and there. I think the following things are important. Firstly, we must continue to seek agreement with municipalities and pay greater attention to small-scale opportunities. Secondly, we must make use of the safe countries designated by Europe in order to move quickly into the influx. This European system of safe countries must be extended as soon as possible, but in a responsible manner. The countries that are safe must be deported as soon as possible and, if necessary, forced to return. Thirdly, we must give refugees from war zones a temporary residence permit as soon as possible. Of course, in the short term we need to create housing for status holders by remodeling, new construction and realization of system building. In this respect, I am pleased and pleased with the decision taken by the government yesterday. It's gotta be quick. Maybe there should be more. Part of it gives the impression of being emergency legislation, but it has to be now. I have, by the way, heard Mr Hermans with some approval. Nevertheless, I would say that political parties are also doing better to do their best to accept the inevitable rather than to stir up the aversion against it. In this context, I should not mention the PVV anymore. I come to speak about a number of domestic problems. The earthquakes in Groningen and already in Drenthe lead to high costs due to damage recovery, preventive measures and compensation for loss of value of real estate and to strongly declining revenues due to reduced gas extraction. According to research, 40% is dissatisfied with the handling of the damage caused by the NAM. We have not yet reached the end of the reduction in extraction, I hope and I assume. For the time being, the entire building stock in Groningen has not yet been refurbished and made. Even if it did, it remains a matter of preventing earthquakes. Despite the limitation of gas extraction, the tremors continue and seem to become even more violent. It has already been said that extraction in the area in question should be reduced by two thirds in order to ensure stability. Like the refugee crisis, it costs a lot of money. And there are other things. The reduction of charges planned for next year may well break us down. What are the government's plans regarding the quantities to be extracted from the Groningen field? Is it already clear when we can expect the proposal for the new Mining Act with the opinion of the Council of State? We consider the legal definition of the reverse burden of proof to be very important. That shouldn't take too long. The North is not the only area where problems arise in connection with mineral extraction. The mining industry in Limburg still leaves traces. Now that the pumping of the mining water into the underground corridors has been stopped, this leads to erosion and subsidence. That's what's causing damage. Here, too, there may be even greater risks. I understand that there is an emergency fund for the damage, but it is intended for distressing cases. I also understand that DSM, Umicore and Orange-Nassau do not want to contribute to that fund. Of course, the State as the owner of the state mines is largely responsible, but it does not seem morally acceptable that the companies that have carried out the mining industry should not contribute to what was ultimately already foreseeable damage. How come these companies can't be forced to pay with them? Why is the emergency fund only for distressing cases and not for all mining damage? That's weird, isn't it? We will soon be dealing in this Chamber with the amendment of the Media Act, which establishes a completely new structure for regional broadcasters as a whole. It is almost impossible for the planned reduction of 17 million to affect concrete work, that is to say journalism, in all regions. Does the government agree with me that regional journalism is important and that it is difficult for regional broadcasters to play a major role in this, and that cuts in broadcasters should not be passed on to them? That is not the intention, but can the government guarantee that this will not happen with such austerity? The amendment also concerns the position of Omrop Fryslân, who is responsible for radio and television broadcasts in the second state language. There is a problem that goes even further. State Secretary Dekker and the House of Representatives are aware of the special position of this broadcaster and rightly refer to the international conventions relating to the Frisian language, to the Frisian language law and to the administrative arrangement Frisian language and culture. This special position was underlined in the opinions of the Temporary Committee on Safeguarding Frisian Language in the media, the Hoekstra II Committee. That committee explicitly advised a full-fledged, independent and wide-ranging programme and media offer in the Frisian language. This broad task requires structurally differentiated funding and a separate approach to the determination of the budget. The same has recently been underlined by the States of Fryslân in a motion adopted unanimously. Omrop Fryslân must maintain an independent independent position as the only public channel in the second state language. The opinion of the Hoekstra Committee must be fully respected, including the financial part of the recommendations. The government's intention to include Frisian broadcasting in the national Stichting Regionale Omroep Overleg en Co-operation, where he is organized and financially balanced with the other regional broadcasters, does not do justice to this broadcaster with its unique mission. In fact, in addition to the NPO and the Regional Broadcasting Consultation and Cooperation Foundation, a separate Frisian public service broadcasting foundation might be the most appropriate to do justice to this. I would also point out that a truly independent broadcaster, which is not financially forced to share all kinds of facilities with others, can boost all kinds of activity around broadcasting which can strengthen the position of the minority language. A good example of this can be found in Wales. Is the government prepared to take account of the fact that a Frisian broadcaster is not only concerned with regional news but also, above all, with a public medium designed to counter as fully as possible what is available in a flood of foreign-language media? Finally, I would like to comment on our action in the big world.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u120	Mr Ten Hoeve, may I remind you that your speaking time is up?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u121	I've had my eight minutes. I'm aware of that. I'll drop my last topic.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u122	Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? Yes, I understand that Mr Ten Hoeve would like to, but he still has a second term in which he can deliver his last subject. I note that the other Members no longer need to speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u123	Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin with a few introductory remarks. Then I will respond to a number of logical classifications, which I will go through shortly after my introductory remarks. First of all, may I say that these General Political Reviews are clearly not business as usual? I think that's understandable, too. The OVV report on the terrible disaster with flight MH17, but also the topicality of the refugee problem are clearly overwhelming today. In fact, it sounded like that for almost all the first-term speakers, especially those who spoke after the OVV had come up with the report. That makes sense. I also think that this is a good thing, because subjects that concern everyone in our country belong primarily to the parliamentary debate. They belong in the parliament where the pulse of society must be felt and, as far as I am concerned, is also felt today. By the way, it is far too early and too soon to discuss the OVV report in detail in this debate. I hope the Chamber doesn't expect me to. It is clear, however, that today is a very difficult day, especially for the next of kin. It's a day when everything resurfaces. The grief and the emotion are still very close. That is certainly true in this house too, because I suspect that many of you today remembered Senator Witteveen again with warmth and a sense of loss. We can only hope and wish that the report of the Research Council for Security helps relatives to get answers to their questions. I said this afternoon in my first reaction that the criminal investigation is being worked hard. Once again, it will require a great deal of patience. Providing legal and convincing evidence is truly a long-term issue. Also on other major issues, such as the flow of refugees to our country and the rest of Europe, they are not just gone or resolved. In my reply, I will go into detail about everything that the cabinet does and intends to address and manage this problem, and what it does to bring it together with municipalities, provinces and European partners to a next stage and to solve it as effectively as possible. What I want to say at the beginning of this debate, particularly on this subject, is how important it is to keep peace. This applies to politics and the joint governments, because we can only do the right things with each other. I am glad that we in the coalition earlier this week were able to make good agreements on sober and just care. This will help to take the necessary steps in concrete terms. However, I am also talking mainly about peace and quiet in social terms. The news about large numbers of refugees coming to our country makes people insecure and concerned, and that is understandable. This should be taken into account when taking measures. But what happened last Saturday in Woerden is and remains totally inadmissible. We must also guard that border together. Having said this, the reality of Prince's Day is still, to a large extent, the reality of today. In an unstable international environment, economic recovery is taking place in our country, which is becoming increasingly clear and tangible. People and companies continued, even when it was difficult. The major reforms in healthcare, the labour market and the housing market are now taking place. With this we lay a new foundation among all the facilities that make the Netherlands such a good country to live in. The most important thing now is that we are also going to see all these positive signals in the unemployment figures. This remains the main task of this cabinet, in particular of the Prime Minister and the Deputy Prime Minister. As I said, I would like to structure my response after these few introductory words on the following themes. I will start with the biggest issue in this debate, namely migration. Then I would like to talk about international security. Then it's about the DOD. Then on Europe. Then there's finance and economics. Then on Security and Justice, followed by energy and climate, followed by the public sector. Finally, in Chapter 10, if I may call it that, I come to the subject of varia. It covers cases that have not yet been dealt with under the other themes. In their contribution and in interruptions, all speakers discussed the reception and handling of refugees in the Netherlands and in Europe. First of all, let me say for my part that there are indeed no simple solutions. We want to deal with this issue in various ways with concrete measures. It is an excellent subject that requires an en- en- en-an-approach. The starting point is that refugees are entitled to aid for war violence. That is not only a question of rules, but also of civilisation. At the same time, it is clear to all that it is important to reduce, control and manage migration. Many speakers, including Mrs Barth and Mr Kox, rightly pointed out concerns among the population about the impact of the reception on their safety, work and housing. That is understandable and legitimate. The cabinet is also paying attention to unjustified displacement effects in all decision-making on measures. This is demonstrated, for example, by the proposal to extend temporary housing opportunities for all those who are waiting for a home by means of semi-permanent facilities. Let me first talk about the European component. How do we deal with the flow of refugees coming to Europe? That is where the cabinet wants us to succeed in taking care of the people as much as possible in the region itself. This means investing in the reception facilities at the edges, in this case especially of Syria, Lebanon, Jordan and Turkey. If that has been achieved, if there are really safe reception facilities, with prospects, for example on education, then it is possible to say to people coming from those regions where these reception facilities are available, on the basis of the fact that there is a safe third country available, so to say to those who come to Europe: we ask you to report there, in the region, there will be shelter. This also includes the need for Europe to be prepared to implement a resolution policy aimed at people from those camps, if the pressure is too high there, to bring them to Europe. It is my absolute conviction that this is the only route to closing the routes of the smugglers across the Mediterranean, but also the Balkan route is not entirely nasty, depending on how you choose it. Only in this way can we close those routes and try to stop those horrible images, in which people become victims of smugglers and cross with shaky boats. We'll put money in that too. We've cleared $110 million. The European Union also invests in this. This is the medium-term policy. Then we have to deal with the fact that people are coming to Europe at the moment or are in Europe and asking for asylum. We have chosen as a coalition to do a number of things at the same time. First of all, we want to work on a sober roof over the head, if I may call it that. We're short on the housing market, so we have the need for sober housing. That could be remodeling existing office buildings that are empty. It could also be in container homes. They could also be other solutions. Secondly, we want to prevent the image from emerging as if people with status, asylum seekers or refugees have priority over other people on the waiting list for social housing. We do not think that is a good thing, so no displacement effects, but you will always have to leave the municipalities the room to offer tailor-made solutions, of course. Thirdly, if we manage to work on this austere shelter in the near future, it is possible that the rent will be provided in kind, as will the cost of care. As a result, the amount that people receive from, for example, welfare schemes will be significantly lower, as many of these facilities have been offered in a different way. This means that this assistance is more appropriate and adapted to the situation and to what is necessary. For the shorter term, we have agreed with the municipalities that they will work on the implementation of the so-called self-care arrangements. That's for the short term. The aim is to help the first 10,000 people from asylum seekers' centres (azcs) at the COA who already have status but cannot continue to live in accommodation for at least six months.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u124	The Prime Minister talks about different arrangements for status holders, so they do not need a certain allowance. Status holders are thus assigned other types of housing than Dutch or regular migrants. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u125	The problem is that there aren't enough homes. So we will have to work together on shelter in semi-permanent homes where we can get rid of these people as soon as possible, probably after the intermediate step of these self-care arrangements, in a decent way. These houses are also open to other people on the waiting list for a social rental house. In this way, we will ensure that we address the problems not only for the next six months, but also more structuralally.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u126	Does this mean that self-employed housing or do you say that status holders can do more together?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u127	The latter may also be the case. There are all kinds of unorthodox possibilities open, simply because we want to solve this problem in a decent way. But decent, from the point of view of sober but just.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u128	I assume you are aware that, under European rules, there is equal treatment of status holders vis-à-vis the Dutch. This applies to housing and assistance. I assume that this is also the framework for the government to act.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u129	We do everything within the existing rules, but the fact is that there are not enough social housing, so we will have to go to this kind of unorthodox solutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u130	Now it's about status holders with temporary status, but that could be five years. Does the Prime Minister imagine that these container houses are suitable for such a long period of time? If such new semi-permanent residence is also available to others other than those status holders, do those others receive a discount on their social security or allowances? Will they be treated in the same way as those asylum seekers and status holders?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u131	The chance that these others are also on the assistance is present, but it is not the case that everyone in the Netherlands is on the assistance, while people who come here as refugees, have a status and are not yet at work, are eligible for assistance as soon as they are outside the COA. As long as they are still covered by these self-care arrangements, there is no right to assistance. That is actually an extension from the COA, but then they will no longer be in those asylum seekers' centres. As soon as they pass on to this type of housing after, for example, six months, there is also a right to assistance. Then you look at what that means for that part of the assistance provided in kind. How that relates to other people who happen to be on welfare and who happen to want to be eligible for this type of housing, we are all going to work out that. We are going to make the precise rules about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u132	Mrs Strik's question was very important. Is this within the framework of the Refugee Convention? The Prime Minister says we're not gonna change any treaties, we're gonna stay in there. Would he undertake to inform the Chamber in writing of what exactly these arrangements are and whether they can indeed remain within the equality principle of the Refugee Convention?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u133	We're gonna work this out now. Once there is, it goes to the chamber. Everything I send to the Chamber goes to the First Chamber in a copy. I assume we all do.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u134	When I talk about the Chamber here, of course, I mean the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u135	Sure, but I think you'll get copies of all the documents that go to the House of Representatives by default. This is for the first six months, for the semipermanent shelter for the period after that. Then there is also a problem with emergency care. We have agreed that the provinces are committed to ensuring that such a type of shelter is available per province as has now been realized in Nijmegen. That also means we can stop dragging people around. This is now sometimes necessary, because the temporary emergency shelter is temporary and people have to move again after 72 hours. That's a lot of stuff. So we have the provinces for temporary emergency care, the self-care arrangements for the six months after and the semi-permanent habitation for the period that follows. For that period, people are also eligible for assistance. I have just outlined how this assistance works out in relation to the rent and the care allowance in the light of the health and rental costs that are provided in kind. We believe that this will bring about a sober and fair overall package. This also means that we can now take steps quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u136	In what way do we tell the people who come here or are already here? I have noticed that the people who come from far away mainly have uncertainty: what will happen to me? They have already been to Bulgaria or the Czech Republic or so on. How do we do our best to explain to a fugitive who comes here how it's going to happen? In my view, it is not a question of a refugee having an urgent need to have everything. I'm thinking about that stupid story that they're here demanding everything. However, it is important to know where it is going. Where will they be in a year or six months from now? How do we do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u137	The COA tries to communicate so openly and honestly. I can see that. The fair message to refugees is that we cannot at present give guarantees about the speed with which things can be arranged. The numbers are large and therefore the procedures take longer. It becomes more complicated to arrange housing outside the COA. Probably there is a first step with such a self-care arrangement. The possibilities for after-travel are also delayed. Those are all honest messages we bring. Because I don't want to talk nonsense to the people who come in here. We always say it's temporary. Everything we do is for five years. If it gets safe in those five years, you go back. If you get the status in those five years, you're gonna get yourself started. That's what we're gonna help you with.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u138	That does seem very important to me. I've seen some of the communication. I can't say I'm always impressed. Refugees aren't wimps. They've come a long way here. They've been through a lot. So they're also able to process bad news. We must try to limit as much uncertainty and uncertainty as possible, both among the Dutch population and among the newcomers. If you know what the perspective might be, it's easier to carry your destiny. I think we can contribute to that. That's not gonna go into the paperwork. It's paperwork, but it's not gonna go into the paperwork. If the government wishes to pay extra attention to explanations, it is likely to avoid many problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u139	The message remains, however, that we agree that there is no way in which we can say that it is going to be quick. The period of uncertainty will be longer rather than shorter. Anyway, I just outlined that in my previous answer. We are, of course, trying to see as soon as possible whether someone is eligible for a status or if someone has to go back. If one has to go back, everything will be put in place to arrange this as soon as possible. We are working on this together in Europe, because we know that it is not possible in all cases. I agree with Mrs Barth among others. She said that the integration of people who have acquired status is very important. This has to do with the language, but also with the whole issue of getting to work. I very much agree with that. In that respect, we pull on the same side of the rope. Some of you have asked about the budgetary implications. The cabinet, of course, sees this point as well. We also see the numbers rising. This effect is felt both in the whole budget and in the OS budget. We deal with this in the normal budgetary system. So we don't come in between with all kinds of expectations. We are following the normal budgetary system. This means that, in the second half of November, we will use the thermometer again in the autumn note to see how big the problems are in the financial sense. We'll see what it takes. I say this in response to the questions raised by the Christian Union groups, 50PLUS and other groups in connection with the Slob motion (34300, No. 23) which was submitted to the House of Representatives during the examination.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u140	The Prime Minister states that resources should never be an obstacle to proper care. Does he have a maximum amount for the shelter? He says, "Here and no further?" Or doesn't he care and he says, "We're just gonna take care of the shelter?"
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u141	Both don't apply. So I can't make a choice. I can only say that we will take the best possible account of the effects of the rising numbers and report on them to the Autumn paper.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u142	I have one specific question to ask the Prime Minister: does he have a maximum amount? Does he have a ceiling?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u143	I refer to the previous answer. I've already given the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u144	The funds are now coming from the OS budget. The ODA resources (Official Development Assistance) are used. In the case of large numbers, this is going to increase considerably. That's gonna be a big hit on that budget. This has implications for the budget of development cooperation and its capacity to act there. It would be better to arrive at a structural solution, by increasing ODA resources or by introducing a structural solution to Justice. I would like a more concrete answer, also in the light of motions adopted in the House of Representatives. It says that there must be a structural solution, while avoiding the budget for development cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u145	We're not gonna do that last one. Let me be clear about that. We are following the usual budgetary system. This means that the costs of first-year reception of asylum seekers are paid from ODA funds according to the OECD criteria. We'll hold on to those appointments. What exactly is the situation with the rising amounts because of the rising numbers? We will report further on the numbers and budgetary implications in the autumn note, i.e. at the normal budgetary decision-making moments. I say this in response to the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Slob in the House of Representatives. I'm going to do that now through the First Chamber, because that motion was mentioned here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u146	The Prime Minister states that the OECD will be okay if the first year of reception comes out of the OS budget. It's not up to the OECD, is it? It's up to us. There are special circumstances. Is the Prime Minister prepared to take the liberty of not getting it out of the OS budget, regardless of the OECD's advice, because this is already under sufficient pressure? Many parties in the Netherlands say that reception in the region needs to be strengthened, but it is weakened if this is to come from the OS budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u147	The ODA budget is linked to the size of the economy. It's a well-known fact. It is showing a positive development at the moment. Pressure is exerted on every budget. In this budget too, the ambitions of the minister and the cabinet as a whole are greater than the budgetary possibilities. I'm trying to get ready wine today. There are no thoughts with us to change this system. We'll see what this means for the total amounts.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u148	Then I'll table a motion on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u149	I fully understand the Prime Minister's commitment to the Navy Note. Will he also return to more investments after the first year, for example for education, citizenship and language lessons? We can see that there are opportunities for schools on all sides.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u150	In any case, we will assess whether there is any additional budgetary impact. We can't see that until we have all the relevant data available. We see that many volunteers contribute, for example by teaching Dutch lessons. There is, of course, an established social loan system for integration, in order to pass the integration exam within three years. There are provisions for this. We will certainly show what our expectations are for these budgets in the Autumn paper. There is one more point on the issue of refugees. We've been asked about security. This is a matter for the cabinet. I have heard suggestions, including from the SGP angle, to give the KMar a greater role in that. We are looking at all kinds of possibilities, but that is not the issue at the moment. We are always looking at how we can ensure that safety is guaranteed as best we can. We have the existing systems for that. If necessary, we will, of course, take additional measures, because the security of reception sites is an important issue. We need to organise this properly. I understand the concern, but we are on top of that. I have also been asked for my own role, regardless of the precise constitutional application of it. In my opinion, Jacques Wallage did not say anything crazy about this, but I do not know whether they can immediately count on great enthusiasm from PvdA and VVD, given the position of the Prime Minister. When the report had just been finished, Jeroen Dijsselbloem, Minister of Finance, asked the entire Council of Ministers if he still needed advice from his staff. If Jacques Wallage's proposals were to be implemented, it would be the prime minister's position. No, I can live well with the role as it is now. I see it as my role as chairman of all relevant decision-making bodies to ensure that we manage the decision-making process. I am also the one who communicates out with the person responsible, both when it comes to the measures and the pulse of society, the social debate. Then there are a few specific questions. From the corner of the VVD came the demand for the plan of Hans de Boer of VNO-NCW. I can serve Mr Hermans immediately. Last night, the Minister for Social Affairs had discussions with social partners, VNG, the director of VNO-NCW, Van Kesteren, and the refugee organisations. This issue has been discussed. The question was how to integrate licence holders, status holders, into society as soon as possible. There was a great deal of support for the idea of already looking at the training, work history and competences of refugees in the reception centres, so that a match can be made if it is clear that they are also status holders. So that's what we're working on. SZW will further facilitate this issue. I therefore believe that I have answered most of the questions on the subject of refugees.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u151	I had to recover from the shock that shook me when I thought the Prime Minister confused me with Jacques Wallage.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u152	No, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u153	But luckily, he doesn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u154	That wouldn't be good for anyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u155	That would go a long way too. I agree with the Prime Minister. If I understand correctly, the Prime Minister can live very well with his role. He is the chairman of most consultative bodies within the Council of Ministers and Under Councils. He coordinates this and he is the one who acts outside, in the media, together with the trade minister. Is that a good summary?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u156	Sure, when I realize very well that the outside guard will say that I am ultimately in charge, regardless of whether that is the case under state law and whether all that is true. It does, of course, feel that way, so I feel particularly responsible for doing everything in my power to be at the forefront of difficult social issues and to seek good solutions with the immediate colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u157	I fully understand that under state law, but does the Minister, even if only half a minute, want to reflect on what is often said in society, namely that the Prime Minister also has something of moral leadership? Maybe that's an annoying subject, because then maybe the V-word will come back, but still. Is that an element in his job vision?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u158	Sure and hence my speech at the last VVD-conference about fat-me. I have had the opportunity to have some wonderful debates in the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u159	So that's what the Prime Minister did as VVD leader.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u160	Yes, but in the House of Representatives challenged it as Prime Minister, I had the opportunity to have a few nice debates about it. I have of course chosen the themes there so that they could resonate with the entire coalition. We'll keep an eye on that. Specifically, as far as the refugee issue is concerned, I am using every press conference on Friday and every other opportunity to talk about it. Then I say to the Netherlands that it is a matter of decency on the one hand to serve people who report here, fleeing war violence, in the most decent way possible. On the other hand, we must ensure that the flow of refugees to Europe is reduced by organising reception in the region. Thirdly, we must avoid shopping in Europe to countries where the level of prosperity is higher. That is why the cabinet wants to move towards a situation where refugees are fairly distributed across Europe, through a certain distribution key. We want to get rid of the current system. We want a single-key system, the key that is now being used for this famous 160,000. This prevents people from indicating that they would rather go to Germany than to Lithuania. I think all countries should take their fair share. In this way, we can ensure that the human traffickers' business model is destroyed with these shaky boats. In this way we can also ensure that as many people as possible stay in the region, which is also important for the future of their country if it is to be rebuilt. As far as people come to Europe, we have to distribute them in a proper way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u161	Let's get back to the Prime Minister's role. I very much believe he means what he says about Woerden. I do not criticize him in terms of tone, but I would like to ask him more specifically on two points of direction. The Prime Minister has to look after the unity of government policy. How then is it that the Minister for Economic Affairs says that immigration is of little use to our economy, whereas the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment is diligently discussing the integration of those people into the economy with Mr Van Kesteren and others? This is not easy for the ordinary citizen to follow, but it is not possible to follow from the point of view of unity of government policy. Looking back at my own history at the Binnenhof, I have seen that the Prime Minister in Europe has increasingly become an important player in decision-making. Some Council conclusions have recently been reached in this area, including in consultation with Prime Ministers. These relate, among other things, to matters that I have also touched on, in addition to the internal issues. The Prime Minister is now saying that we are going to look at this together in Europe, but we are still following those Council conclusions. Take the safe places to go, the organisation of the hotspots and the methods used, the question of trade agreements and sanctions in this area. I mentioned more first-term cases. Take the issue of effective return. The European Council may have concluded that this has happened with Dutch cooperation, at least in agreement with the fact that detention may even have to take place. I have raised these issues questioning you, but the Prime Minister is not getting away so easily with the announcement that these matters will be dealt with in Brussels. He has the task of taking these aspects along with him. I have specifically asked for the opinion of the cabinet, not so much in the opinion of the Prime Minister or one of the two parties. People are looking at that, because it's equally-handed policy. We would like to know more about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u162	In fact, it has been the Netherlands that has been at the forefront of these proposals. In this respect, I refer to many of the first-term debates in this Chamber. Take the idea of shelter in the region, to say it to people, on the basis of a safe third country, that they are being taken care of there, and then use the resolution tool to bring people to Europe if there is such pressure on the camps that it becomes unreasonable. That's all the way from the VVD. Mr Brinkman also raises a number of other issues that I have already raised, for example regarding the possibility of returning refugees who, in our view, have not been properly reported here. At the moment, this can be achieved in about 40% of cases when you look at the European-wide, but we want this percentage to rise to 100. A range of instruments has been developed for this purpose, approximately, but not exactly, along the lines outlined by Mr Brinkman. I fully support that. That's what the cabinet's behind. We are pulling on the same side of the rope in that respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u163	Another question has not yet been answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u164	The first question was about the Ministers for Economic Affairs and the Minister for Social Affairs. They say the same thing. The Minister for Social Affairs has indicated that we need to beware of displacement, because many people in the Netherlands are still unemployed, over 600,000. At the same time, Minister Kamp has also called for attention to be given to this. There are many vacancies, for example in the field of technology. Many people from Syria who report to us are a middle income country with an excellent education system, similar to that of Iraq................................................................................................................................................................ This offers the perspective that you can help people in these sectors, sometimes also in agriculture, without causing unnecessary displacement into the Dutch labour market. In this respect, Kamp and Asscher have drawn attention to the same theme, both choosing their own words, of course. That is also fine, but in terms of policy direction they have said the same thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u165	Finally, Mr Brinkman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u166	I would like to believe that the intentions are the same, but of course it is also a question of what they actually say in practice. I will not dwell too long, but the reason why we are looking so closely at what the Prime Minister says here is that an image has emerged that one says this, and the other says that. That doesn't help to keep the peace. I'm saying it a little rough now, but it's important that the Prime Minister stands for the unity of policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u167	And that is precisely why these questions are so fantastic, because they allow me to explain that this is a unity of policy. In this particular case, moreover, both have said so. The cabinet does not believe in economic migration because it would add something to the economy. But if you try to integrate the refugees who come here and who are allowed to be here, who have five years of status and who, if it becomes safe, go back earlier, but if you fail to do so here for five years and maybe stay longer, along the lines of the training they have enjoyed and if there are opportunities in this particular group, then those two things do not bite each other. In fact, they're in each other's corners.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u168	I have a few questions about the long-term perspective of sending back.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u169	We're gonna be a little short, aren't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u170	I have to start, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u171	Yeah, but I got a little triggered when you said you had "a few questions." That scared the hell out of me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u172	I have two brief questions. The Prime Minister states that we are going to work on the future perspective in the region. I immediately see images of Lebanon, where 1.5 million refugees are being received in such a small country. What is the prime minister's view of the future? When does he say: now is the situation such that people can indeed be sent back because they have a future perspective there?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u173	You can't cut that exactly. You can look for hunger in the camps by cutting back on the World Food Programme. One of the reasons why we are now dealing with these large flows to Europe is that there was a danger of hunger in a number of countries in the camps, apart from the Turkish question. That is why the Netherlands has said that we really need to be prepared to invest money together with Europe in this programme. That is what we are doing, so that at least this winter we will take away that reason for migration. For the longer term, you want, of course, that there is a view of education in these camps, for example. That will not be education at the level of the Netherlands. We are not going to achieve that; we are not going to build Amsterdam or The Hague there. But you want to make sure that in those camps there is more perspective on things like education. You can't cut exactly when there's exactly enough perspective for the future, but you can say on the basis of the safe third country criterion to people from such a region who report to Ter Apel: there's a place where you can be safely picked up. The Council also laid this down, first in the Presidency conclusions and on 8 October in Council conclusions. If you say that consistently a few times, you destroy the human smugglers' business model. You only have to do it a few times. But again, this is for the medium term; let us be real about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u174	I have one more question on this point. It is not quite clear to me whether, for example, the possibility of working in such a country should be considered. Maybe the Prime Minister can say something about that. Then there's my second question. The Prime Minister states that if the pressure is too great, resettlement must be arranged. Then people have to be able to get here safely. The European Commission is proposing a structural resettlement scheme at EU level. Will the cabinet take a positive view of this? Is it going to get that arrangement off the ground?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u175	First, we're going to see what these proposals are. Of course, we see this resettlement in the context of our medium-term perspective. In the cabinet letter we used the terrible term "overpressure valve." We should have chosen a different term for that. I said that's what you get when you're in a coalition with betas. We mean by that term that if it gets too full in those camps and people don't make it anymore, we must be prepared to bring groups to Europe. Of course, any Commission proposals have not been made in this context. We will look at them on their merits, but still with a different enthusiasm than when they are done in the context of our medium-term perspective.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u176	The Prime Minister said that he had arrived at the end of his paper on the refugee problem. Three questions have not yet been answered. The first question is: is it true that the Azmani plan has become the core of government policy and European policy? Mr Hermans has said this, but I do not think it can be true, given the words of the PvdA. Can the Prime Minister answer this, then know...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u177	Do you want me to do that right now? Otherwise, I may not remember the other two questions. I'll leave that qualification to others. I note, however, that the cabinet, the coalition, has decided to focus on a short-term policy for Europe with a quoting system for the whole of the European Union. We need to get rid of Europe's shopping of asylum seekers. If you want to permanently destroy the human smugglers' business model and stop the flow to Europe, then you also need to work for safe reception in the region, with perspective, so that you can send people back there on the basis of the safe third country criterion when they come forward here. Then you are able to take the pressure off again via the resettlement instrument. If you look at the various plans that have emerged from the coalition parties, this might be more in line with the liberal plans. Other elements are more in line with social-democratic plans. However, I leave the precise weighting of the plans to others.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u178	Then it's obvious. In any case, it is not the essence of the Azmani plan as he himself mentioned it, namely...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u179	I leave this entirely to Mr Kox.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u180	...that is, no refugees from outside Europe to Europe. That was the essence of that plan. But that is not the case. I'm glad. The second question to be answered is as follows. I asked the Prime Minister earlier whether we are going to work on a concrete plan to do better than we were able to do or did in the first period. I understand we're going to do it "sober and just." That's a nice cry. It could have been almost "sober and social" or "strong and social." However, I believe that this Chamber has the right to get a clear plan of action from the government on paper or the iPad. If we can't do it now, we'll do it in the short term. This is a major problem. We can solve it all together, but then we need to know what the government is going to do. At what time can we expect that plan?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u181	Mr Kox is a clever parliamentarians and he has put his questions together in a bunch of suggestions and observations, which I am then expected to ignore. However, once or twice, I will go into it. He mentioned a number of things about the plan that emerged from my own party, which I really leave for a while. If he thinks my answer supports his argument, that's not true. Then there is the specific question of when the Chamber will get the plan on paper. I've already made a commitment on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u182	Then there's my third question. I found in the debate that one group in this Chamber says that it has the right to say what it wants, using a lot of terms which I believe and many people here think are extremely offensive. You can say whatever you want here, but then the Prime Minister can also say what he thinks about it. If we allow such terms to go on our side in this Chamber... the Chamber has not done so, but I think the government should also say something about it. If you are in this house in such terms about people who call on our help, I think that something should be said about that from the government too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u183	Three responses. First of all... There's so much nonsense coming from the PVV that I've been choosing not to respond to everything for years. I have said before that this lot always throws pieces of red meat into the arena and then everyone jumps on top of it. They're a little bell pullers; they run away as soon as the bell is pressed. Second. Sometimes I respond to it when I think it's going too far. I did so at the General Political Reviews in the House of Representatives. At that time I said in the direction of the leader of the Freedom Party that some of his proposals do not contribute to such a degree that I really do not see what they contribute to solving the issues, although it is a free country and he is allowed to make his proposals. Third. After that debate on the other side, I spoke to the press about what he said about the role of Parliament. I no longer had an opportunity to do so in the debate, but in the media at the end. As a result, things were also said about this in this debate. We have a dual system. I'm your guest. I do, however, like it. I find those statements mataglap. Your President has said this much more comprehensively and much more sophisticatedly than I am doing here this afternoon. I'm 100% behind that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u184	I said in my speech that yesterday I asked for figures from the Secretary of State. This showed that there were 12,000 refugees in the last four weeks. I asked the Prime Minister what this figure means for the figure for the year 2015. It's media October now. What order of magnitude should we think about? I have another question linked to that. If this average continues, can we handle it? Can we handle a refugee stream of 150,000 to 160,000 people a year?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u185	I am asked for a figure and then Mr Nagel gives a figure. I don't have these numbers. I refer to my previous answer, which is that we will come into the Navy's note with an update of our expectations and their financial implications. Let us do this in the context of the structural decision-making moments, otherwise, because of all kinds of developments, we will always decide on adjustments to all kinds of budgets. That creates an incredibly restless image. In my opinion, we have left two fine things to Gerrit Zalm: the separation of revenue and expenditure frameworks, and the actual decision-making moments on the budget. That's what I'd like to hold on to. That would be my proposal. Mr. Chairman. If it's all right with you, I'll move on to the next topic.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u186	Your second block?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u187	The second block, international security. As big as that subject sounds, I think I can be a little shorter on that, given the number of questions on this subject. Firstly, in response to a number of questions, I can say that sanctions against Russia are explicitly linked by the European Council to full implementation of the Minsk agreements, the deadline of which is the end of this year, 31 December. In any event, the sanctions will continue until 31 January 2016. You can see that the intensity of the fighting in Ukraine has declined in recent weeks. This is positive in itself, but there are also other elements on which sustainable progress needs to be made before sustainable implementation of the Minsk agreements can be discussed. So we're not here yet. We must maintain pressure on all parties, both on Russia and through Russia on the separatists, in the form of these sanctions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u188	I understand that the Prime Minister says that it has been agreed that sanctions will run until the end of January and that we will look again. One sanction concerns us in particular, namely the blacklisting of parliamentarians over and over again. A number of parliamentarians from this country and other European countries cannot enter Russia and a number of Russian parliamentarians cannot enter our country. I think that we have gone too far, because parliamentarians should always be able to talk to each other, among other things to check whether their governments are doing the right thing. I know there's some movement on all sides to look at that. Is the government prepared to consider whether it might be wise, as a first step, to stop blacklisting parliamentarians as soon as possible? That does not serve any purpose.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u189	It's always a last resort. You can't rule it out. Members of the government and parliamentarians who are ultimately clearly involved in activities covered by the sanction regime, i.e. activities subject to sanctions, cannot in all cases be excluded from this category. I agree with Mr Kox that you need to minimize this and I agree with him on the importance of free dialogue, but you cannot rule this out. However, the Netherlands will never do this out of enthusiasm or lead the way in this. In my introductory statement I have already said a few things about the report of the OVV that has been published today. It is now important to follow the next track, the third track, namely the question of criminal law. We now have the answer to the question of what happened, the 'probable cause', in good English. We must now succeed in bringing the case to justice, beyond reason. We work on this with the Dutch Public Prosecutor's Office, which takes the lead, and our friends in Malaysia, Australia, Belgium and Ukraine in a joint investigation team. That's happening right now. The Dutch Public Prosecutor's Office has said today, as a pioneer in that process, that it will certainly run into 2016. It's a complicated process. The next of kin called us to do it as soon as possible. I also spoke to the president of the foundation this morning. I very much agree with him; we are going to do everything we can. However, it must be careful, because it is extremely complex. So this is definitely going to run into 2016. That is what I wanted to say in response to a number of questions about the international political situation. I come now to the questions that have been asked about defence. In response to questions from the Christian Union and the Political Reformed Party, I can say that at the NATO summit in Wales last year we indeed discussed the fact that we are all committed to the principle of 2% of our national income for defence expenditure. Most countries are under that right now. We have now introduced an intensification in the 2015 budget. A trend break has been used. It is the largest growth in defence expenditure since the Cold War. However, I realise that it follows periods of major austerity. The 2016 budget has also taken a significant step towards further upward adjustment of budgets. Then, depending on developments in the international security situation and the possibilities available, we will look at what is possible further. I cannot give you any assurances on this at this time, but I can tell you that we will look into it on the basis of these two criteria.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u190	The Prime Minister quickly moved from the block of international to the block of defense. I had asked him questions in the first term about the leading role that the Netherlands could and should play in organising an international political agenda to dramatically improve the situation in Syria. I'd appreciate it if the Prime Minister could go into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u191	I'll get back to you on that! That is under the heading of Europe. That sounds crazy, but that is because the issue of Syria is linked to the role played by the Netherlands in Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u192	Will you take the UN with you right away?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u193	I hope so! I'm about to look at that. I'll see what I find!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u194	The Prime Minister has said that he wants to see defence expenditure in a multiannual perspective. We spoke once again in this House about NATO's 2% standard and the European average of 1.5%; I think we were around 1% a year ago. Does this multiannual perspective mean that the percentage of GDP we spend on defence expenditure will also increase? Can the Prime Minister say anything about that? Will the increase in investment also result in us getting more into line with those percentages, which also imply a standard?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u195	That's an effect of it. It is not that we have made a kind of path to go in so many steps to the 2%; that would also be a lie. We have now been able to do this two years in a row, because of the need and because of the financial possibilities, partly inspired by Mr Van der Staaij's motion in the House of Representatives. In the coming years, we will look again at international conditions and the financial possibilities. We know that we are inspired by the target of 2%, but we are not moving towards it in a certain time frame. Those appointments weren't made.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u196	There is a motion in this house in which this house asks the cabinet to step up its efforts with those internationally agreed percentages. I find the word "inspiration" a little vague. The Prime Minister says he is inspired by the 2% of NATO, but we have made international agreements on this. The international security situation also calls for this. I think that structuralally and responsibly budgeting in a multi-annual perspective also means that you can say something about rising percentages. That is what I would like to ask the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u197	I understand that, but I fear that I cannot serve Mr Kuiper as he would like. In fact, we in the coalition have not agreed to add lump sums to the Defence budget in the coming years. We agreed that we would look through the lens of the situation every year. On the basis of the developments and the financial possibilities, we are looking at whether money can be added again. Of course, this will have the effect of increasing us to 2%, but only if we can do it every year. More important than that 2%, which we all accept as a common long-term goal, I find what you do with the money. We strengthen the basic strength of the armed forces and financial sustainability, and we ensure targeted quantitative and qualitative reinforcement of combat units and the replacement of necessary capabilities. That's what we're doing with this money right now. Every time extra money is available, we will look again at how best to spend the money within these objectives.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u198	Mr Kuiper, one more time on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u199	One more time. If the Prime Minister says that we do it if we can, then we have no firm policy. I'm sorry to hear that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u200	The constant policy is that, within the context of sound public finances, we always consider the scope for stepping up the whole of the rich budget. The last time there was 750 million available. Almost half of them went to the DOD, about 45%. It was a little less than 50%, because there was also some money going to missions. Anyway, almost half of the money went to Defense last time. Whether this is the case next time or not, we will have to decide again every year. We will first have to look at whether there is any money at all, given the overall objective of putting public finances in order. If there is one, we need to look at whether there is financial space and whether it can be used in the context of the need to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u201	In the first term, I asked about the mistakes of the past. The Prime Minister says that there are two criteria for the future, international developments and financial opportunities. He could fall into a mistake from the past, because I think it has to be the other way around. If international developments call for more defense, you're just too late. Don't say: we're going to bet money anyway, and we're obviously following international developments.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u202	I also know the SGP as the party of financial soundness. The money has to be there. If there is money, it is perfectly conceivable that the coalition will decide again to invest money in defence. However, this is not a given in advance. We will have to make that decision over and over again, just as we do for all intensifications. The policy is clear. In the context of the multiannual perspective, we have two things in mind: on the one hand, the strengthening of the military's supporting operational units and, on the other hand, the targeted, qualitative strengthening of the fighting units and the replacement of the necessary capacities. We look through those lenses at the spending of the money. We'll have to re-assess the money every year. Unfortunately, it is no different; it is inevitable. That's what we do in all budgets. The joint European defence effort has been called for. Mr Brinkman in particular asked for this. In June, the European Council concluded that we should continue to work towards an effective, visible and result-oriented CSDP (common security and defence policy), the further development of both civilian and military capabilities and the strengthening of the European defence market industry. We are now waiting for an important piece from the High Representative. It's coming soon. In June 2016, the High Representative will present a new EU Global Strategy for foreign and security policy. It will offer it to the Council, and that is the starting point for the further development of the CSDP. This is also reflected in the Dutch Presidency. The Minister of Defence and the Minister of Foreign Affairs will pay a great deal of attention to this. We want to support the High Representative in developing that strategy. In particular, we will use the Presidency to translate it into practice, to use these terrible words. For example, it must be made clear what capabilities are needed to implement the strategy, but also how the role of the European Union as a security actor and a powerful global player can be strengthened, if I may put it that way. It is important to realise that the Member States themselves remain the driving force behind European military cooperation. We would therefore like to see them based on existing bilateral or regional partnerships, for example between the Netherlands and Germany or the Benelux countries. But there are other examples. We can use them as best practices. The Netherlands is really in the lead here. Both in Europe and within NATO, we are involved in almost all forms of international cooperation. I come to the cup of Europe. Among other things, the question of the leading role was asked. Mrs. Barth already referred to it. We do not need to convince each other here of the need to work for peace and security in Europe, especially in the ring around Europe. Stability in the region is important for the region, but also for our internal security. Much needs to be done to address the root causes of instability. We do this through different channels. In addition, both the United Nations and the United Nations are there! As the European Union, this is an important role. The Netherlands expects an active and visible contribution from the European Union, for example for the situation in North Africa and the Middle East. We are also actively contributing to this. The High Representative for the Common Foreign and Security Policy is in charge of that policy. We will actively support the High Representative. I specifically told Mr Brinkman that the same applies to the policy to be developed during our presidency. We see in particular the importance of an effective, integrated external policy. You will then use all EU instruments, whether they are development cooperation, trade, security, or the possibility of sanctions. But think also of the diplomatic instruments, such as the use of this High Representative and the EU envoys. And think of the role of our own Foreign Minister and the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation during the Presidency. Then they also have a more European role. Think also of the role of the Secretary of Defense in this whole. It is important that we look at all this in conjunction and that these people and things are deployed on the basis of an overarching policy strategy by country or region. This brings me to another question from Mrs Barth. This is also important because we need to work together within the Union to tackle major global problems. In doing so, European cooperation is becoming increasingly important. A changing international environment and limited bilateral resources mean that we have to play more through the EU's band than ever before. We are convinced that the interests of the Netherlands can be better served through the political weight of the Union in the world and the effectiveness of joint action. I agree with Mrs Barth that there are developments that put pressure on cooperation. Think, for example, of the forthcoming referendum in the UK. However, think also of the influx of refugees, which we have already discussed this evening. If we want to strengthen the legitimacy of the Union in terms of common foreign policy, then we must ensure that Europe focuses on the challenges that it can make a difference. That is why it is so important that last year the European Council, including on the Dutch initiative, adopted an agenda for the coming years. This agenda is reflected in the Commission's agenda and ensures that Europe focuses much more. It's going to be the Europe of things, not the things. These are things like creating growth and jobs, by strengthening the internal market. I used to joke about the internal market. You know what Gandhi once said about English civilization when he was asked about it. He said, "That would be a good idea." If you ask me what I think of the internal market, I would say that is a good idea. That market is only available for a very small part, namely only for physical goods. That market is not for capital, not for energy, not for services and not for digital economy. There is therefore a great deal to be done in all these areas. It is a huge opportunity for Europe, and the Netherlands wants to take the lead. The second issue lies in dealing with the migration crisis. We cannot do this as individual Member States; we must do it in a European context. The third point is the establishment of an effective energy and climate policy. However, there is also the whole issue of fair industrial relations in Europe. Think of the agenda that the cabinet under the leadership of Louis Asscher is working on and which finds a lot of resonance in Europe. On all these elements, the EU has a lot of added value. That is what we will be working on during our presidency. We will focus on a focused Union, which will be deployed strategically. This is also very much in line with the agenda of the first Vice-President of the Commission, Frans Timmermans.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u203	I'm glad to hear that. However, I specifically asked for another point to be added to the list just mentioned by the Prime Minister: an effective, common foreign policy of the Union. If there is to be an international political peace agenda for Syria, then Europe will have to move forward together. This must not be done only within Europe. Europe will have to work together with the United States, with Russia and eventually even with Iran and Iraq, no matter how annoying we may be. However, if we want to have a real chance of a peaceful situation in Syria being restored, the country can be rebuilt and the flow of refugees will end, then we need such an international political agenda. Then the European Union will really have to speak with one voice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u204	It is as if Mrs Barth has in front of her answer that I wanted to use here. That is not the case, I hasten to say, because this is, by chance, the next issue I come up with: the role of Europe in the Syria conflict, and also the role of the United Nations. I agree with her. A long-term solution is needed for Syria, especially for the enormous suffering of the population. We know that there are currently millions of people fleeing within Syria, the "internally displaced persons," i.e. the IDPs. We know that there are millions of people in shelter camps in Turkey, Lebanon and Jordan. I believe that there are now 4 million. To a large extent, the current flow of refugees in Europe is a direct consequence of this. However, it is also difficult to imagine that in the short term there will be a political transition in Syria, especially in view of the recent developments and the accession of Russia to this whole issue. That complicates things more. It also has to do with the attitude of the Syrian regime itself, but also with the current stalemate in the UN Security Council, for example. There is Russia again. There is also division within the Syrian opposition. The UN Special Envoy is therefore now focusing on the dialogue. The Netherlands fully supports this work. We are doing the same through the European Union. The European Union fully supports the UN guided negotiations. In the margins of the United Nations meeting in New York, the Foreign Ministers, including Bert Koenders, discussed this two weeks ago. We have our own special envoy for Syria, who has an influence on the Syrian opposition. They are all very small steps, in which our aim is to encourage them to contribute constructively to the UN process. We are also trying to support this indirectly, for example by bringing together informal parties and groups in order to promote dialogue. We will continue to play this role and we will expand it. The same is expected of the Netherlands. We are not a small country, but the largest of the smaller countries. We have always played a major role in foreign policy and with the current government this ambition is unabated, especially in the Syrian conflict.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u205	I have a question at the interface of the previous and this issue. I very much agree that there is a need for integrated cooperation in Europe. In addition to diplomacy, a joint activity has always played a role in creating, for example, a safe region. Our group really is not waiting for gun clatter on our part, but we get a little too often on TV to see gun clatter from the Tower that there would be little agreement in the Cabinet on a potential defence contribution to protect safe areas. It is fine to set a policy agenda in Europe, but the question is of course also what is actually available. The Americans will ask the same question. They are asking not only to join in Greece, but also to show what we are talking about in other areas, of course. Can the Prime Minister briefly say that it is not tomorrow: perhaps the day after tomorrow, but not Mañana?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u206	I am giving a very sharp answer to that. The Netherlands is one of the five European countries bombing in this region at all, namely on the Iraqi side of the fight against ISIS. Of the 26 European NATO countries, only five are bombing, including the Netherlands. At present, no European NATO country is bombing on the Syrian side in a coalition. The French do things and once in a while the British, but that is always on their own initiative and not in a coalition context. Nor can I imagine that the CDA would suggest that we are going to bomb on the Syrian side outside the coalition. I note that it is not a taboo, but it is quite conceivable that we will do so at some point. Then you have to make a very good assessment of all the risks associated with it. Russia is currently engaged in the conflict. It seems that the Russians are more engaged in tackling the moderate opposition than ISIS. That creates great uncertainty on the Syrian side. If you're going to bomb there, you need to know for sure what that means for the places you're bombing and the future of those places. I understand there's an argument to do it. If you bomb on the Iraqi side and you know that there are supply lines running from Syria to Iraq, there is a competing argument to bomb on the Syrian side as well. You have to weigh that up in the context of the other developments I've just outlined. I'm not saying the cabinet disagrees. We, the House of Representatives and the Cabinet, all realize that there are no taboos. This is absolutely conceivable. If you want to do that, then you must have carefully made all these considerations.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u207	That's how the Prime Minister knows us, and that's how Buma reacted across the street. My point is that the Prime Minister is talking about an agenda. That always takes a long time in Europe. I didn't bring the Americans in for nothing. I deliberately did not mention Syria, so I too try to formulate carefully. There will be a moment very soon when, for the protection of safe areas, you will also have to engage in defence activities. I am not talking about what they are; the Prime Minister has the military advisors and the Minister of Defence for that. My point is that we should not keep talking about this for too long. If you want to form a coalition that will certainly not cover twenty European countries, but a limited number of them and if the Netherlands is to be able to participate effectively, you need a strong defence force and also the political will in the Netherlands to participate. My question was: does the entire cabinet agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u208	No taboos, really, but it is handsome if someone can tell me at this time how the discussion about Russia's involvement in the conflict and Russia's possible involvement on the Iraqi side of the conflict is going to develop over the next few days and weeks. I think Mr Brinkman and I agree. We must weigh that very carefully and review it over and over again. There are no taboos in advance. And I am not saying that Mr Brinkman is suggesting that, but let me say it again just to be sure: we do not want to have a 'rushing into things' either. We really need to weigh that very carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u209	And hopefully also provided with sufficient ID, for example in the UN context. I would like to go back to the more general European foreign strategy. I have asked the Prime Minister whether he does not agree with us that it is necessary to review it: a focused foreign strategy which also explicitly addresses Russian expansion. I do not just mean Russian interference in the areas which the Prime Minister has just mentioned, but much wider. I missed that in his answer. I would also like to hear a little more about whether he believes with the French and German political leaders that we should extend political union.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u210	When French people talk about 'political union', I see a very large French flag with a very small European edge. Beware, because the word 'political union' has become a sort of pacifier: everyone sucks it and hasn't come out for years.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u211	And the Germans, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u212	The Germans have something different, but as far as the French are concerned, we have to be careful. We shouldn't be too naive. What my dear colleagues have said together is at such an abstraction level that even Mr De Graaf and I can agree on this. Now the facts. We must realise in the Netherlands that we need Europe for a number of things: a strong currency, a common foreign policy, surveillance of the external borders, a strong market and a focused Europe. The Netherlands is working on that. It is also at the heart of Frans Timmermans' agenda: the Europe of things and not of all things. That's a risk. You have to be careful that parts of the Commission do not become a party committee looking for a party, because a number of people will get less to do in that big Brussels Commission. I very much welcome the Commission's strategic agenda. I fully support that. It is very much in line with the Dutch priorities. Mr De Graaf asked about the position of the United Kingdom. The Netherlands is very committed to keeping the United Kingdom with the Union, but we need to know exactly what it wants and whether all this is to be done. The Netherlands wants to try to build bridges by not leaning too much to the side of the United Kingdom, nor too much to some countries in Europe who may be thinking very secretly: well, that's so bad. In my opinion, political leadership in the United Kingdom is well aware of the importance of membership of the European Union, but it needs arguments to stay with it. This will take place in the coming months, possibly during our presidency, towards a referendum. It is not certain when exactly that will happen. Some call it the second half of 2017, but it could be sooner. It is important that we do our best to do this. I have often said that a United Kingdom outside the European Union is a medium-sized economy in the middle of the Atlantic. It's not Europe, it's not America. I am convinced that this will greatly weaken the position of England in the world. It is not good for the Netherlands, because we have few partners in Europe that are growth-oriented. These are Sweden, Denmark and the United Kingdom, much more than some other countries with which we have good links, but which are more focused on protecting large sectors of their economy. Look, for example, at the whole discussion on the Services Directive. Then you can see exactly how that split line runs and how important the connection with England is for the Dutch economy. However, it cannot be done at any cost. You're gonna have to come out together.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u213	The Prime Minister and I agree on this. It is important that Britain stays with us. He was talking about England, but I hope they take Scotland with them and that it stays one whole.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u214	Spain too!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u215	That's another discussion. I was particularly concerned with the point that I missed in the list of those three important things, namely a well-integrated European foreign and security policy that does not focus so much on what we do or do not do together in Syria and Iraq, but much more on what we do in common to ensure that this continent can act as a unity when it comes to geopolitical issues and vulnerabilities. I asked whether it is not time for us to have a renewed external strategic policy in Europe, including Britain, and what the Prime Minister thinks of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u216	We agree, but I just answered that question. We support Mogherini, the High Representative, in her efforts to ensure that there is a new foreign and security strategy for the Union by June 2016. That is in our presidency. I have therefore used the term "translation." I'm gonna use it again, and then I hope to never speak the word again in my life. How do you make that foreign strategy effective in practice? That's what I just mentioned. For the Netherlands, European defence cooperation is important, but also our anchoring in the transatlantic bond in NATO. We will use the Presidency to support the High Representative on all sides in its development. I agree with Mr De Graaf that this is very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u217	I have the impression that the Prime Minister at the end of his foreign...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u218	No, I have a lot of questions. Shall I answer it first and then Mr Kox's question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u219	At least the Prime Minister has not yet answered the questions about Syria.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u220	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u221	He says nothing's taboo. Last year I said that my group considered the idea of bombing to be rather problematic. We've been bombing for a year now. What did that get you and what did it cost? I'm not thinking about the cost of money, but I want to know what it cost people. If you bomb every day, a lot of people must have died, right? My second question is how do we close the cash taps for ISIS. Last year, the Prime Minister said that this is at the top of the list of priorities with regard to Syria and Iraq. Recently, there were several reports that showed that ISIS has a fleet of the most modern Toyotas with which you can do the most terrible things. What have the government, Europe and the international community done to shut down the money supply? To be honest, I only have the impression that there will be more, more and more money. Last year I identified a number of sources of funding. That wasn't because I happened to know them, but because they're pretty well-known. What have we done in this area?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u222	On that last point, I share the frustration that is reflected in Mr Kox's question. Europe is very keen to squeeze out the sources of funding. The frustration is that this is only moderate. Europe cannot do that alone. It needs the international partners to do so. I can only say that we are fully committed to fighting ISIS not only in military terms, but also in terms of stopping its financial flows. I would point out that ISIS is one of the most barbaric groups the world has seen for the past 25, 30 years. I am very motivated, as is the Dutch Government, to make a military contribution. It is inevitable that there will be victims who do not belong at the heart of the regime. By the way, the Dutch F-16s and the military are also so respected because they are able to work very precisely. They do so better than many other countries. We're just doing this really well. That is why our country is being deployed more than on average on the Iraqi side of the conflict. You should, because you have to play the whole organ. This applies to the flow of money, I agree with Mr Kox, for the military struggle and for the training of military personnel, which we do in two places in Iraq to ensure that the Iraqi army and the special forces are better able to defend the country. We also build coalitions, in short: Europe works on all fronts at once and the Netherlands is very active within them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u223	The question I would like to have answered is that of the association agreement with Ukraine and the referendum that will take place on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u224	We'll know about that tomorrow. Then the Election Council will give a ruling. I also agree with those who say that it is a great achievement if it succeeds. If it really works, we'll know tomorrow. However, the agreement with Ukraine was not forced by anyone. It's said here and there. It was the sovereign choice of the Ukrainian government, for which a large majority of the Ukrainian people also voted. However, the association agreement does not lead to a conflict, but to Russia's action and action. I would like to say this in response to what Mr Kox said about it in his term. Russia has exerted improper pressure, annexed Crimea and destabilised Eastern Ukraine. Let's keep naming these facts. If there's a referendum, we'll know tomorrow. Then we'll find out if there's a majority in favour of applying. If that's the case, let's get on with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u225	Mr. Kox, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u226	The Prime Minister says it's about the role of Russia. Russia certainly plays a major role, but it is true that the flame broke when the association agreement was discussed. The Prime Minister saw that, didn't he? At that moment, Russia had yet to get into the picture. Would it be wise, apart from the referendum, to consider whether the postponement of the treaty could dampen the conflict? That is what I believe we need right now in Ukraine: that the fire goes out instead of being blown up.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u227	Ukraine is being destabilised on the eastern side. A passenger plane crashed there with 298 deaths, which we're about to find out exactly who did. Crimea was occupied by Russia a few months earlier. It's not like this country is having some kind of free lunch right now, is it? Ukraine is in a very difficult phase. A lot is said about the association agreement which is not right. It is said that a lot of money would go to Ukraine and that the treaty is a prelude to membership of the European Union. Neither is true. I don't think there are any crazy things in the treaty. If there is a referendum, we are going to defend the treaty well.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u228	I just wanted to come back to the issue of Syria. I would have liked to have dealt with this as the last issue in my first term, but this is a good opportunity to continue. I can imagine something about the idea of using military means to create safe zones in Syria. However, I think we should also note that everything we do there has effects that we do not intend to achieve at all. That should prevent us from taking too three measures. We are bombing in Iraq, but we must be aware that we are supporting the Iraqi Government with this. That's our ally over there. However, the Iraqi government is sending Shiite militias to areas recaptured at IS. You have to wonder if the population in those villages is much better off with those militias than with the occupation of IS. For a lot of people, it won't matter much. Our other ally is Saudi Arabia. He fights with us, but in Syria he mainly opposes the Shiite-alawite regime in Syria. They do the same with extreme cruelty in Yemen, including against the Shiites. We must note that most of the parties with whom we work have their own interests which are not only aimed at securing their own people or their fellow believers, but are moving forward and intended to seek revenge or ethnic or religious conquests. In essence, only the Kurdish region is a very strong factor, because only its own country and people are defended there. However, the Kurds are the group that attacks our other ally, Turkey, and thus undermines the forces. I have a tendency to think that we should limit our intervention to groups that we are expressly assured will only defend their own country and people and no longer have aspirations. That's just the Kurds. How does the government feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u229	I'm a system thinker. I learned from the leader of social democracy that you already influence a system if you just look at it. If you intervene in a system, it always has effects you wish, but certainly also effects of the second or third order that may not be desirable. You always have to weigh those effects against each other before you intervene. If you're going to bomb, like we are doing right now, and help you train parts of the Iraqi army, it always has effects of the second and third order. This is certainly the case here, because it is an extremely complex situation. After all, we are not bombing in Switzerland, but in a region with very complicated relations. However, we will do it for a reason. Considering everything, we have come to the conclusion that we need to do this in order to stop ISIS, because ISIS is a danger to our way of life and to our Western values. We cannot say on the one hand that it is a danger and on the other hand that we are staying away because of the effects of the second and third order. I fully agree with Mr Ten Hoeve that you need to make sure that the undesirable effects are not such that they are going to stand in the way of the main objective. We come to the conclusion that this is not the case. I do not therefore share his view, if it has already been given, because I believe that I have heard more of an expression of concern than a conclusion has been drawn. You can't do this without risk. Making no contribution internationally means capitulating for ISIS as far as I am concerned, and we are not going to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u230	I understand the balance, but I can also imagine that the balance is the other way around. I do have that propensity. After all, what we are doing there brings a lot of people to the idea that we are fighting Sunni Islamism in ISIS. This leads them to have so many influxes of people from Western Europe. We must avoid this appearance. We can only avoid this appearance by not supporting people who can make this thought popular. Our allies aren't really helping us in this fight.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u231	I think Mr Ten Hoeve and I agree that, if you intervene, you have a very good view of the whole system and the effects of your intervention. I think we're thinking differently about the conclusions of that. As far as Guantánamo Bay is concerned, the Netherlands is absolutely prepared to carefully examine the Americans' request for one or two prisoners to be admitted. We have noted and concluded that we will consider this once the United States itself has taken further significant steps towards the closure of the defence facility. So that also means trial of the remaining detainees. If that happens, we are prepared to reconsider the request with a positive approach. We do want to see that the Americans are actually taking those steps to get rid of not only the locals, but also the unmoved ones, who still have to be prosecuted and tried. That is in line with what previous Cabinets have done. We have consistently spoken about this. Anti-Semitism is an important issue, for which attention has been drawn, among other things, by Mr Schalk. The cabinet, like the Chamber, is concerned about the various reports that intolerance and xenophobia are on the rise in different parts of Europe. We are committed to keeping all forms of discrimination, including anti-Semitism, high on the European agenda. During the Commission's Colloquium on tolerance and respect, Minister Asscher drew attention on 1 October to increasing anti-Semitic violence and Muslim discrimination. It called on the Commission to continue this discussion through exchanges of experience. The Commission has announced that it will appoint two special envoys for anti-Semitism and Muslim hatred, who will be the first point of contact. During the Dutch Presidency, the results of this colloquium will be actively taken up. This is also happening within the framework of the European Working Group on Hate Crime. The cabinet will also work actively during the Presidency to strengthen the rule of law in the European Member States in order to work towards a dialogue in which Member States also discuss issues relating to the rule of law and fundamental rights. This is to outline some of the active things we are doing and to underline the fact that we are all in agreement on this important issue. I come to issues of finance and economics. Questions have been asked about long-term unemployment among older people. Yeah, it's high. We see that older people are often long-term unemployed. Moreover, before the crisis, unemployment was very low internationally compared, but the crisis has shown that unemployment is particularly high among older people, although it is still lower than the average in the euro area. If the economy improves, you will see that employers primarily opt for those who are short-term unemployed and that long-term unemployment is slowing down in response to economic recovery. But she's gonna react eventually. We always see this in periods of economic recovery. But at the moment that is not so visible, because the economic recovery is still quite fresh, at least to this extent. It is important that the recovery continues. In addition, we are doing a number of specific things to tackle unemployment among older people. I mention the mobility bonus, which used to be the premium discount for older people. There is a no-risk policy for people over 60 years of age who are in the WW for at least one year. We also have the training vouchers up to €1,000 for job seekers over 50 if training is needed to fulfil a new job. These are a number of thrusters, but the main main rocket is, of course, economic recovery. As far as the position of immigrants in the labour market is concerned, we naturally see that discrimination occurs. That is a problem that unfortunately we cannot solve with the creation of a law or the beating of an AMvB. That's what we're going to have to do with society as a whole. Moreover, we are doing a great deal to contribute to this through our responsibility. In May 2014, the Labour Market Discrimination Action Plan was sent to the Chamber, containing 42 measures to address discrimination in the labour market. This is about raising awareness, encouraging the reporting of discrimination and enforcement. On 1 September, the progress report was sent showing that the implementation of all actions is fully ongoing and, moreover, is fully in line with planning. Additional actions have been defined. Of course, employers also have a role to play in this. A diversity charter was presented on 2 July. On 31 March 2015, the Ambassador's approach to youth unemployment Mirjam Strong agreements with 75 organisations, especially employers' organisations, on increasing employment opportunities for young people, especially migrant young people and refugees. Over the next two years, the Minister of SZW and the Minister of OCW will conclude 100 new working agreements with employers' organisations. For example, we want to play our part in combating this bizarre and socially stupid fact of discrimination in the labour market. Do the elderly also benefit from the relief? It is absolutely true that older people, like other Dutch people, have felt the effects of the crisis in recent years. This does not mean that they are disproportionately affected by the measures taken by the cabinet. If you look at the purchasing power development of older people between 2002 and 2012, you can see that it is more positive than that of other households. If you look at the period from 2013 to 2015, you can see that older people with a supplementary pension have had more to do with a negative purchasing power development than workers, which is mainly caused by the fact that we do not go there because of the indexing rate of pension funds, which was lagging behind in wage and price developments. This also reduces the pension entitlements of workers. So that's not just something that affects the elderly, it affects everyone. But, of course, the effects for the workers are not reflected in the purchasing power picture. In 2016, we want to use this 5 billion mainly as an additional thruster for economic recovery. That is why we have chosen to reduce the effects in terms of relief, especially for workers. At the same time, we have also taken measures to ensure that older people do not decline, because we did not think that this was acceptable. But we do see that the positive economic effects are there, to a large extent also because the 5 billion are now concentrated primarily on workers. That's a choice. It has been argued that there is no sustainable economic growth, because the reduction of charges does not go hand in hand with a better tax structure. I must say that this cabinet has implemented the largest reform package since the war to strengthen the economy and improve the sustainability of public finances, with great thanks to this Chamber, which has made it possible to find majorities. This is reflected in the mortgage interest deduction, the labour market, care and the accelerated increase in the AOW and supplementary retirement age. These are difficult measures, but as a result, the Netherlands is in a much better position at the moment than it was a few years ago. At the same time, we can see that it attracts the economy, which also improves public finances. We now consider it important to ensure that economic growth is given an extra boost through the additional burden relief that is possible. I think that's very justifiable. The government has, of course, also looked at a shift in the tax burden in order to be able to reduce the burden on labour even further. We're doing $5 billion in net expense relief right now, but we've been looking to see if there's anything else you can do. There were thoughts from the cabinet, which resonated with different parties with which we spoke behind the scenes. But in the end it was not possible to get sufficient support for this. That is why we have come up with the proposal as it is that I think, precisely in the context of the enormous economic strengthening that is going on, that I find highly justifiable. Mr Brinkman suggested a financial interim balance sheet. I think it would be best to stick to the regular budgetary process. We are updating budgetary policy in the spring on the basis of the CPB's socio-economic forecasts. This starts with the decision-making in the cabinet for the current year, as well as for the multiannual picture. Both are then involved in the Spring Note. This then leads to a multiannual budget picture in the period between Spring's note and Princess Day. This in turn leads to Macro Economic Recognition and that in turn leads to decision-making in its entirety on Princess Day for the following year, with a look at the years after that. I think it would be good to stick to that M.O. If we start to deviate from all these fixed moments, we will get a budget picture that is too restless. However, I can imagine that the CDA might wish to discuss these ideas further in the General Financial Reviews, which I believe are also taking place in the First Chamber, with the Minister of Finance. Otherwise, I'm sure there's another moment to come up with. They also asked about the proceeds of all these plans. With regard to dga power in box 2, an additional billion has been received. The revenue from the 2014 dividend tax shows an increase of 1.3 billion. It also appears that a large proportion of these additional revenues come from the target group in 2014. As regards the revenue from excise duties, it has already been reported to the Lower House that the actual unadjusted revenue from diesel and LPG will be 202 million euros higher in 2014 than in 2013. If you correct that for incidental cash receipts, that's $100 million. The increase in revenues from the diesel tax in 2014 is therefore visible and significant. With regard to pensions, the Central Economic Plan 2015 of the Central Planning Bureau shows that the contribution developments achieved in 2014 and the expected development for 2015 and 2016 are more favourable than expected at the time of the pension arrangements. In this respect, there is no indication that the estimated revenue of 2.1 billion will not be realised in 2017. Then I come to the question of regulatory pressure. The cabinet is committed to further strengthening the entrepreneurial environment in the Netherlands and also working on a level playing field in a European context. For our very strong agricultural sector, we are working with the sector on a tailor-made approach. It is carried out in order to reduce regulatory pressure together with the entrepreneurs. That is also the first step in implementing the motion for a regulation of the VVD-Second MP Lodders. This year and next year will be devoted to the implementation of the bottlenecks. In this context, the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs has reported that it is prepared to explore with industry in 2016 whether a new inventory round is possible through the half-yearly reporting regulatory pressure. The next will receive the House of Representatives in November. You will be kept informed through the Minister for Economic Affairs. Frans Timmermans, first Vice-President of the European Commission, is also working on the same projects and objectives through the REFIT programme in Brussels. What exactly is the situation with the increase in purchasing power? You can see it doesn't apply to everyone. Purchasing power is positive for many households in the coming year. Indeed, I said it earlier in response to questions about the purchasing power of older people: it is the workers who are making a great deal of progress. However, we also see that the median purchasing power development for beneficiaries and pensioners is slightly positive, plus 0.2%. It is true, however, that not everyone can yet benefit from the economic recovery. We think unemployment is still too high. I've argued that before. With this package of relief, we want to contribute to the recovery of the labour market and economic growth for the medium term as well. It is, of course, true that higher incomes in the case of wage increases in hard euros make more progress than low incomes, but it goes without saying that we are presenting purchasing power figures in percentage terms rather than in hard euros. That would be a little crazy. 1% out of a tonne is more than 2% out of €20,000. However, it would be strange if we presented this as real purchasing power increases. We always present it in percentages. If Mr Kox were to challenge me, I could repeat the duet with Mr Samsom in the House of Representatives. The question was what would happen if you reduced VAT according to the wishes of the SP. The example concerned a Porsche compared to a number of things that cost less money. I think this is a fair approach. Then we get the question about retirement provision. The CDA has asked: why is there a capital requirement after a capital requirement, while close to home the returns lie for picking up? May I first of all say that I think that Mr Brinkman and I agree that an adequate financial review framework is of great importance for ensuring that pension obligations are met. This is also ensured by the recent changes to the FTC. We now see that there are no abrupt discounts, because of the possibility of smearing them out. On the other hand, funds must also take into account future generations when indexing. That is also balanced. Moreover, it does not prevent pension funds from making risky investments, especially if they are in the interest of participants. They have this opportunity, including to invest in the Netherlands, if that serves the interests of the participants. They are not only profitable if there is sufficient scale. In addition, we work together with the Dutch Investment Institution (NII) to make this possible. This does not alter the fact that pension funds are, of course, not having an easy time at the moment. This also highlights the urgent need to reflect on the redevelopment of our entire pension contract. In the autumn, the Cabinet will present a work programme for the follow-up to the broad discussion on the reform of the organisation of the pension system, including a different format of the pension agreement. This may prove to be one of the biggest reforms of the cabinet if the history of the Rutte/Asscher cabinet is written by the Centre for Parliamentary History in 30 years' time. That's all gonna happen, so... what do you mean "ruled out"? What do we do to ensure sufficient affordable housing? May I point out that we have taken a great many measures to this end? Thanks to this Chamber, that worked. Stef Blok, the Minister for Housing and National Service, was the first in the cabinet to look for majorities in the Upper House. We see all the effects of that now. We can celebrate it with each other. Better functioning of the social rental market, promoting flow, targeting the target group, clear job definition, more space for the free rental market. Important measures include the income-dependent rent increase, the new Housing Act, the adaptation of the housing valuation system, the freezing of the liberalisation limit, the appropriate allocation of corporation housing to households entitled to rent surcharge, the draft law to promote the flow of the rental market and the implementation of the Van der Linde/Monasch motion; the latter also comes back to the budgetary treatment. I am not even talking about the sales market, where a lot has happened. This is in response to the many questions that have been asked about finance and the economy. Then I come to the subject of security and justice. I note that the budget of V and J, both in the Lower House and in the Senate, has been viewed with more than average interest. Let me say the following. The cabinet supports this budget, but it simply recognises that there are risks to that budget. Some of them are still in both chambers. The registry rights are still with the Lower House, and the legal aid and the own contribution are in the Upper Chamber. In addition, there are concerns about OM, justice and police. Therefore, in order to give the Chamber more insight into the risks of V and J, it has been promised that the Minister of Security and Justice, together with the Minister of Finance, will provide Parliament with an analysis of problems and solutions in the V and J budget. That commitment was made two weeks ago at the General Financial Reviews in the House of Representatives, but it is also in line with what I discussed at the General Political Reviews in the House of Representatives. That will be announced by the Minister of V and J for the budget debate on 23 November. I agree that this analysis also explicitly goes to the Upper House. Again, this will be dealt with in the budget debate of V and J on 23 November in the House of Representatives. I am confident that a solution can be found in consultation with both Chambers. I understand from Mr Kuiper of the Christian Union that, in the interests of the rule of law and the rule of law, we need to strengthen the capacity of police and justice. We fully agree on the importance of the rule of law and the rule of law. We have taken several targeted measures in recent years to strengthen police and justice. At the beginning of this year, for example, 130 million have been added to the fight against terrorism, to tackle undermining and to tackle crime with international aspects. Additional funds have also been allocated to security, which further strengthens the rule of law and the rule of law, when the Cabinet takes office. That now has enormous effects in terms of a decline in all kinds of nasty crime statistics. A brief summary of my speech is that this analysis is sent to the House of Representatives for the budgetary treatment of V and J. The First Chamber shall also receive a copy thereof.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u232	Several spokesmen spoke about security and capacity problems. I mentioned the situation in North Brabant. Despite the fact that there are also good figures, we are dealing with difficult crime problems to get under control. From the police and mayors' circle, the signal has been sent that there may be a shortage of capacity, also in relation to the refugee influx. I would very much like the Prime Minister to give a brief reflection on the current security situation, otherwise we will be diving too quickly into the instrumentality of figures and the way in which we are going to solve something in the budget. How are we doing? How does the Prime Minister view the current situation? I'd like a brief reflection on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u233	I think we can be proud of the enormous achievements of the security and justice system in recent years. Almost all crime statistics have fallen significantly. The Netherlands has really become safer. At the same time, there are concerns about the budget of V and J, in a more structural sense. Of course, I also hear the recent signals about the police cao and the current capacity. I would like to include that in the ordinary work, without taking it off or trivialising it. That's the usual work of a minister. A minister, whether the Minister for Social Affairs or another minister, always gets questions about the level of provision in his sector. The Minister of Health will be asked about the costs of health care. The Minister of Security and Justice will have questions about his policy area. There will always be groups who think that extra money is needed for something because of special circumstances. The Chamber has genuine concerns about the budget of Security and Justice. We must be careful to add these signals. If the Chamber does so, it will complicate the functioning of the Minister of Security and Justice, because he must have the normal conversation with these groups. If there is a serious point, it will be involved in the analysis I promised. However, the conclusion may also be that at present there are sufficient resources for this particular issue, so that you can sort it out. You can then distinguish between the more structural issue which has also been addressed by the Chamber and the fact that there are, of course, requests for additional funding in this context. We must make sure that people think: the discussion between the Chamber and the Cabinet is ongoing; we can add our wish. I will say it one more time, and then I will stop saying it: let us give the Minister of Security and Justice the chance to have that conversation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u234	I asked a question, which also concerns, for example, the capacity to deal with the refugee issue, but I do not really get an answer. The Prime Minister's answer is that in general things are actually going well. However, I mentioned a number of problems which show that things are not going well. I mentioned the situation in North Brabant a few times today. We can't really control the criminal networks there. Mafia-like practices are emerging in the Netherlands, including in the big cities, but the Prime Minister says that things are actually going well. I don't get it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u235	Let me start with the refugee issue. The Minister of Security and Justice discussed this yesterday, including with the mayors. The conclusion is that the police can now handle the tasks and that priorities are set with the local triangle, with local authority. The fight against crime in Brabant is a major priority of the cabinet, it was even mentioned in the throne speech and 3 million additional funds have been allocated for that purpose. We will, of course, take this issue into account in the analysis we are about to carry out. But those are the normal things, if I may call it that. There are always social issues that are on the budget because extra money has to be spent on them. As the debate between the Chamber and the cabinet on the V and J budget is currently taking place, I am concerned that this is being pushed upwards and that people think that they can not only go to the minister, but that they can also go to the Chamber for extra money. I'd like to warn you about that. That is why I say: make sure that the Minister can perform that part of his duties properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u236	The Prime Minister is now getting off the hook by saying that this is the ordinary job and that members of parliament should not lend their ear to the executive services. That's not how we're in the game. We have had a discussion with the current Minister of Justice and his predecessor for about a year and a half. We understand very well that he is busy. That is precisely why we have said: it is good that there are some successes, but now you have to continue on the path taken and do not put any further pressure on the services. That is beyond the circumstances that my colleague Faber, for example, points out. Frankly, I think that the Prime Minister should take that argument out of the fight. If the Prime Minister says 'we are going to map the risks and then we are going to talk about them', he runs the risk that some of the draft laws that are still ahead of us in this Chamber, implementing drafts or whatever you want to call them, will not receive our support immediately. Then the Prime Minister can say 'unfortunately; then we will go back to other groups', but I remember from previous debates that this is almost Chamberwide seen as a major problem for the functioning of our rule of law. Think of things like waiting lists and what's more. If it is up to me, we shall see what the Chamber as a whole thinks about this. The Prime Minister cannot, in this debate, get away with the claim that we are getting a proper risk analysis. That's fashion all over the Netherlands. Risks are mapped everywhere. However, we must also act on essential elements of our public apparatus. So I really urge you to make room in those budgets. A number of additions must also be made. The motto really doesn't have to be "the sky is the limit." However, we are sending a certain message here. We can talk about this in detail in the budget. It is not up to us to indicate exactly what could or could not be done with the police and with the prosecution and whether there could be even more work. However, this Chamber has been debating for two years now the fact that this is really not possible. There is a serious debate. If there is one subject this Chamber is good at, it is the functioning of the rule of law. All these arguments and figures have been exchanged. The Prime Minister must therefore take back the argument that we lend ourselves to the cause of someone from Almelo or whatever. We can really select who we listen to.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u237	Let me sort this out, because otherwise we think we disagree on something that I think we agree on. I'll start with the legislative proposals. The proposal relating to the Court of First Instance is still in the Lower House. With regard to the proposal on legal aid, we await the opinion of the Wolfsen Committee. The only thing that really needs to be dealt with here is the legislative proposals on their own contribution. The other proposals are before the House of Representatives or will not be dealt with until the committee's opinion is ready. It would be crazy to anticipate that. That is my response to the legislative proposals. I understand very well that in the Lower House and in this debate in the Senate, in relation to the prosecution, the judiciary and the police are asked: are you sure there are no risks in that budget? To that end, we are going to carry out that analysis. In my view, we agree that there should be one and that it should be considered whether it is right to worry about it. Against this background, I would just like to draw attention to the fact that we all know this as administrators, because everyone in this Chamber has ample administrative experience when that discussion is going on, the chances are greater than usual that it will be said: there is a problem with refugees; we are going straight to the MPs to lobby for extra money for the police because of this problem. That's all I want to say. I'm not saying this is happening. I am not saying that Mr Brinkman or others are responding. If they do, it's their right to do so. I'm just saying we need to sort things out. Those billings are on the table. The concerns about the D.A., the justice system and the police are going to be mapped out. In addition, it is normal work of the Minister of Security and Justice to enter into consultation with all kinds of social parties to see if there is sufficient capacity for additional social tasks such as those currently in place around the refugee shelter. On the basis of the discussions we had yesterday, our first observation is that the police can handle these tasks.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u238	Last year around this time we warned that it was not possible to do so. Then the Prime Minister said, "We're gonna take a quiet look at that." We are now a year further, but we have not really moved on with the legislation. This is because in this house there are practically full-scale fundamental objections to the volume of commitment made by the cabinet, and the minister in particular, to the different parts of the chain. So I really want to prevent the Prime Minister from getting a nosebleed in dealing with the budget. It is not the case that 100 budget proposals have been tabled here today. It looks very closely at the question of where it is reasonable. This is an essential part of the functioning of the rule of law, regardless of the current refugee problem. If the Prime Minister doesn't, I'll put him on a note saying we're in big trouble here just before Christmas.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u239	I believe that a motion for a resolution has been adopted by this Chamber on these legislative proposals. That motion led to the setting up of the Wolfsen Committee. I merely advocate that we end the process in a structured manner. There's been a motion from the First Chamber. The cabinet has taken over that motion and there will be an opinion on legal aid. The issue of registry rights is currently before the House of Representatives. It's got to land here at all. The only thing that lies here now is the proposal on its own contribution. I am aware that there is a great deal of concern about that particular point. This has also led to different adjustments. So that's what we're talking about. So that's about the legislative proposals. In addition, there are budgets as such. I hear what Mr Brinkman says about it. It is not for nothing that we are also sensitive to the concerns that live to make up for that analysis through the glasses of the question of what the budget has to do with the public prosecutor, the judiciary and the police.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u240	The Prime Minister is always trying to find the friendly and cheerful solution, but when Mr Brinkman says that the cabinet really needs to listen now because otherwise it will get a bloody nose. The man sitting on the left of the Prime Minister is then the first person to receive it, although I do not give him that is a serious warning. It is no secret that this Chamber has been discussing the state of the rule of law with the government for a number of years and a number of government intentions to infringe the rule of law, at least according to a majority of this Chamber. There have been four motions for resolutions adopted, which have been supported by a rather broad majority over and over again and some even Chamber-wide. The Prime Minister can say that all of this is still in the Lower House. Normally, that is the way it works, and that is true, but in this debate this Chamber is trying to tell the Prime Minister that it is working differently now. This Chamber has said time and time again: we should not do registry rights, we should not do the infringement of access to justice, we should not make our own contribution. If the cabinet wants to wait for what comes into the Lower House, where the Labour Party and the VVD will ensure that this is adopted with the narrowest possible majority, the only way this Chamber has left is to align those legislative proposals and to align the cuts entered in the V and J budget by rejecting the V and J budget. Wouldn't it be wiser for the Prime Minister to say, "Oh, yes, I remember that. We haven't been talking about this for two years, but we've been talking about this for four years. You guys don't really want that. How stupid that this is still in the budget. I'm gonna get that out. As for the legislative proposals, I will also listen to you." There will soon be a motion for a resolution, CDA and SP, which, although still to be tabled, I dare to predict that it will be adopted. What does that mean? If the Prime Minister does not move now, the cabinet will face a confrontation in December, when this Chamber will say: "We have really warned you, year by year and in the General Reviews. You asked for it. Now you get it." What purpose does that serve?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u241	I would argue for nothing other than that we now carefully follow the agreed path. The cabinet is now carrying out a motion from the First Chamber, namely by waiting for the opinion of the Wolfsen Committee. That's a request from the First Chamber. That's just what the Cabinet does nicely. It does not seem surprising to me that I would ask the First Chamber not to adopt another motion before that motion has been carried out. It goes without saying to the First Chamber itself. After all, the Senate is about its own order; I am only a guest here. But I may, for my part, make the suggestion to see if we can perhaps try to carry out the first motion before the second one is adopted. It's about legal aid. I know there are concerns about the registry rights. The note following the report is now in the House of Representatives. We should at least give the normal legislative process a chance, which can also be considered during the course of the proceedings in the House of Representatives to see whether it is possible to take far-reaching account of concerns that live here. Maybe we can. I know that there are great concerns here as far as our own contribution is concerned. That with regard to the legislative proposals. Eventually, it works in state law so that if the First Chamber tunes those billings, they don't go on. I realize that, too. But let us try to see in normal traffic to what extent we can bring these legislative proposals to a good conclusion. I realize this is a tall order. There is also the budget. I understand in such a way that, if I have misunderstood these legislative proposals, I would like to hear that there is a concern about the budget. On this point, I made a commitment that the Minister of Security and Justice also shares the promised analysis with the Upper Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u242	I believe that the revenue from these legislative proposals is in the budget of Minister Van der Steur. If the cabinet takes out those proceeds, then we're talking. But the cabinet will have to do that. Otherwise they will be in the budget. In addition, there are indeed very great concerns in this Chamber about the functioning of police and justice. We didn't get that on yesterday. We have had a hearing here with the fine fleur vanrechtsel Nederland. There have been great concerns in that regard. The cabinet must take this into account. The Prime Minister should realize that when it comes to the budget, this Chamber has a full budgetary right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u243	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u244	We can say in the General Reviews: you should not do that, measure a and measure b and so on. We do not need to wait for the House of Representatives. It's up to us here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u245	Of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u246	That's what this room does. There's gonna be a motion later. It's accepted. My advice to the Prime Minister is not to send the Minister of V and J into a fight that he can't win, but to give him a fair chance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u247	I don't know that motion, so it's hard to respond to it. I understand that my observation is that there is a discussion about the three sets of legislative proposals and that there is also a concern about the budget. As far as the first point is concerned, I am listening very carefully to what is being said here about each of these legislative proposals. That discussion has not yet been concluded. There are risks to this; I realize that. On the second point, we come up with that analysis. This doesn't mean I'm not listening, but it would be crazy if I said tonight that we were going to do something completely different, when we just made the agreement in the House of Representatives to come to that analysis, which should also lead to the inclusion of the V and J budget in the House of Representatives. We are listening very carefully to what is being discussed here tonight and will involve it. It's the least I can do.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u248	This Chamber will, of course, take an interest in the analysis that the cabinet has promised to the Lower House. It's relevant to us, too. In view of the sounds heard by the Prime Minister in the first term and now in the debate on the interruption, he must regard the concern of this Chamber, which is now being spoken and may even be pronounced in a motion, as a court of law to the cabinet, namely as a warning, as a warning of profits. He can do something with that or he can't do anything with it. It is not that you can tear this whole thing apart with the legislative proposals on the one hand and the budget on the other. After all, some of the proceeds of the discussion on legal aid are already embedded in the budget. Last year there was the Franken motion. In fact, it said that this year we are not cashing in those proceeds. In addition, there has been a motion from my group colleague, Mr Scholten, which led to the setting up of the Wolfsen Committee. That committee will probably come with a text before 1 December, if I understand it correctly. The budget treatment of Justice in the Lower House is already in place. For these reasons, we suggest to the cabinet to be sensible and to ensure that, when the time comes, we do not suddenly pose problems to the cabinet. The cabinet has a few months left to resolve that neatly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u249	I appreciate that very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u250	That's the courtesy relationship between First Chamber and Cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u251	I understand it all very well. I also agree with Mr De Graaf that it is a subset in which a budget and legislative proposals coincide. However, there is also a broader concern about the budget than just the legislative proposals. I heard right. We will continue to work on the analysis and separately on the various legislative proposals and do so in such a way that we try to arrive at common orientation, and I have listened very carefully to what has been said about them. Mr. Chairman. I come to the following subject: energy and climate. On the Mining Act, I can say that the government has asked the Council of State for information on four amendments that were adopted when the Mining Act was amended. This concerns the implementation of an EU directive on the safety of offshore oil and gas extraction. The cabinet announced an amendment to the Mining Act following the cabinet response to the OVV report Earthquake risks in Groningen. That proposal was sent to the Council of State for advice. The Minister is currently studying the information on the amendments. The information was received on 8 October and concerns several parts of the bill. This also has to do with the cabinet response to the OVV report on earthquake risks. We now consider it desirable to take a coherent decision on information on the amendments and the opinion of the Council of State. We expect to receive this advice within a few weeks. The Minister of EZ expects to be able to provide further information to the Chambers during November this year. This will also include a possible reversal of the burden of proof. We have been asked about the decision-making process. At the end of the year it is foreseen that the government will take a decision on the extraction of gas in the 2015-2016 gas year and beyond. To this end, the cabinet investigates the responsible level of gas extraction and the possibility of reversing the gas system, first from smaller fields, then supplemented by Groningen gas. The State surveillance of the Mines and the Meijdam Commission, which looks, among other things, at the safety standards to be applied, will provide advice on gas extraction. In addition, Gasunie Transport Services has reviewed the current level of gas extraction from the Groningenveld necessary for security of supply. By the way, the 2016 budget has been based on the level necessary for the security of supply. When the budget was adopted, it was 33 billion ECU. Based on the research trails, advice and the actualisation of the security of supply investigation, the cabinet will decide on the responsible level of gas extraction and, if necessary, adjust the budget accordingly. Then I'll get to the windmills. I can inform the Chamber that during the legal process of the wind energy at sea Act, Minister Henk Kamp of Economic Affairs undertook to inform this Chamber about the timetable for identifying the locations in the Dutch coast area and about the relationship with the evaluation of the energy agreement. He did so in the letter of 19 June to the First Chamber. The areas included in the roadmap for offshore wind energy, including areas off the coast of North and South Holland, have been selected because wind energy can be achieved there at the lowest cost. If you lie a little further away, it costs EUR 1.2 billion extra. There is simply no cheaper alternative. We have also asked Siemens and Van Oord for support. They also show that the cost of wind at sea in the IJmuiden area is lower than in the areas off the Dutch coast. So now that there is no substantiated alternative on the table, the Ministers of EZ and I and M intend to continue the spatial procedure for designating the two narrow strips for South and North Holland at least 10 nautical miles off the coast. For this purpose, a rich structure vision will be drawn up, supplementing Dutch Coast, which will be made available for inspection at the beginning of next year. Then everyone can give their views on that. We've been asked about mining damage in Limburg. I can tell you that a major technical study is currently being carried out into the consequences of coal mining in Limburg, in particular the possible consequences of rising mining water. A financial provision has been set up for distressing cases. It is intended to help people whose safety of living in the main house is at stake. Non-urgent damage cases, where the damage is most likely mining related, can wait until the investigation is completed. The province of Limburg has agreed with the municipalities concerned on the financing of the financial provision for distressing cases. There are currently no legal means to force the former mining companies to contribute to any damage or contribution to the financial provision for distressing cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u252	The fund is for distressing cases. Can claims be made for all damages at a later stage? In the end, it's all about mine damage. Is that still possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u253	I have to admit right away that this is not the theme I am the strongest in. I have to be careful that I'm going to make huge costs by giving the wrong answer. The situation is as follows: There is a financial provision for distressing cases. It is intended to help those with whom the security of living in the main house is at stake. Non-urgent damage cases, where the damage is most likely mining related, can wait until the investigation is completed. Therefore, the policy pursued on the basis of the research and damage that is not mining-related will not be compensated either. That's the honest answer. Fortunately, I have not suddenly caused an enormous damage at the expense of Van der Steur. The climate conference at the end of November, at the beginning of December, is of course extremely important. We are committed to an agreement that will help the poorest to bear the consequences of climate change and to recognise the special circumstances of the small, developing island states. Climate finance will be an important part of the outcome in Paris. We need to be transparent about the availability of funding and make full use of private resources. We want a climate agreement with broad participation aimed at climate neutrality and resilience. This means that countries continue to contribute as they can. Of course, what's important is what America and China are going to do. The last signs of this are a little more optimistic. At the same time, we know that climate policy is only really effective if actors such as companies, cities, civil society organisations and consumers are involved. That is why the Netherlands is also one of the drivers behind the involvement of these non-state actors in the new agreement and in the transposition of the agreement into action. Compliance with and implementation of the climate summit agreements will certainly return during our Presidency. The climate summit is at the end of November, early December, so in the first half of next year that type of question will come up. That will also apply to the European Union. Negotiations on a review of the ETS, the European Emissions Trading System, will continue. I hope that the Commission will soon come forward with proposals for the non-ETS sectors. That's awfully important. Depending on the outcome of Paris, the Netherlands, as President of the European Union, will lead the negotiations on the further development of the agreement. This obviously depends on the outcome of Paris, but that goes without saying. With regard to the Urgenda issue, I should like to point out that the judge declared the judgment enforceable in stock. This means that, even on appeal, the cabinet must do so. Existing studies such as the IBO Effectiveness CO reduction measures and other studies will provide building blocks for new measures. We intend to inform the Court in the first half of 2016. As the Chamber knows, we have also appealed in the meantime. Questions have also been asked about the energy agreement. The NEV and then everyone knows that I mean the National Energy Exploratory 2015 was released on October 9th. It concludes that we are achieving three of the five objectives: the 16% in 2023, the 1.5% energy efficiency per year and the 15,000 new jobs per year. However, additional efforts are needed to achieve the intermediate targets of 14% renewable energy by 2020 and the 100 petajoule energy savings. To achieve the 14%, the cabinet will open up a new subsidy scheme for small-scale renewable heat installations to citizens and businesses. We think we can do this to an important extent. For renewable energy, around €8 billion will also be available next year through the Sustainable Energy Promotion, the SDE+ scheme, for renewable energy projects. With regard to achieving the objective of the 100 petajoule, the cabinet is in talks with the partners in the energy agreement. In the coming period, on the basis of the discussions, we will examine what measures we can take together. The reduction in intensive livestock farming is not an end in itself. However, livestock farming must comply with the environmental and animal welfare standards laid down. We are also committed at European level to the gradual tightening of standards.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u254	The NEV also estimates that, in the long term, we will achieve no more than 21% CO emissions reduction in 2030, while we have agreed at European level to reach 40% by then. What additional measures is the government going to take in order to continue this CO reduction for the longer term, i.e. beyond 2020?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u255	We are focusing on the five objectives of the energy agreement. These are the 16%, the 14% intermediate target, the 1.5% energy efficiency, the 15,000 new jobs and the 100 petajoule. Those are the five targets we're sending. Mrs Strik is asking for a sixth objective, but we are not actively sending it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u256	I refer to the European climate target of the reduction that we need to achieve by 2030. That's what I'm asking. The NEV shows that we are only achieving half of the CO reduction we have agreed on at European level. I am not concerned with the goals that the Prime Minister has calculated for himself. This is an agreement made at European level.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u257	That is a goal for the whole of Europe. This will also have to be spread out to the different Member States. That's all gonna have to happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u258	The Member States themselves have agreed, and you yourself have said so, that they are going to abide by it. The Prime Minister says that this will be divided, but the point is that each Member State has committed itself to that 40%. The Netherlands has done the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u259	For Europe, yes. This means that we are going to look at the different contributions made by the different Member States. That's how it works.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u260	The Prime Minister is talking about intensive livestock farming. He says that they must comply with the rules and that they are being tightened up at European level. That is a very different view than he gave in 2009 as group chairman of the VVD. Then he said that the stacking of pigs in intensive livestock was very much against his chest. So he had a big problem with that. Last year he said at a meeting of pig farmers: I cannot imagine pig farming without growth. That seems to contradict each other. I know that the Prime Minister has an agile mind in many areas, but I would like to know something about him. Pig farming causes social problems, such as hepatitis E, which is already causing problems in blood transfusion services. If he takes note of these problems and has said that the stacking of pigs runs into his chest, can he indicate why he is so loosely dealing with them now?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u261	First of all, I would like to thank Mr Koffeman for his compliment, for which I have to think about whether it was intended to be. To respond more specifically to his question, I said not only that there are no plans to reduce intensive livestock farming, but also that the government is committed to maintaining the environmental and animal welfare standards set. That is a difference from the cabinet that was in 2009. As a cabinet, we put much more emphasis on that. Against this background, I think this policy is sensible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u262	That ruling in 2009 was not about maintaining or not maintaining the standards at all, but about the problem of stacking pigs, so having megasthals. You bumped into the chest. You said at that time that you could be addressed at any time, but at any time when you are being called upon, you think of a different reason than in that debate, when you said that you were opposed to the accumulation of pigs. Is that still the case?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u263	You must see it in the context of environmental and animal welfare issues, as I said in my previous answer. A lot of good has happened since then. Against this background, I can fully reassure Mr Koffeman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u264	Do you think you'll be able to finish your first term at about a quarter to ten?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u265	If no one interrupts me, I'll even be done sooner. I'm gonna do my best. Then I come to the public sector. Many questions have been asked about this by Mrs Barth and others, also on the basis of the findings of the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau. Maybe I can say the following about that. As far as training, self-development and emancipation are concerned, I note that upward mobility in the Netherlands is still fully possible. We remain the land of opportunity. It is also important to ensure that the level of education does not develop into a kind of new social divide, which the SCP does call attention to. This applies not only to groups with a migrant background, but also to disadvantaged groups in the indigenous community. This also means that we are using resources to give disadvantaged students opportunities, including national weight regulation, the primary education incentive scheme and the learning-plus arrangement, as well as through the municipalities. We believe that it is very important that we link the skills that the labour market will continue to require with the debate on education curricula and lifelong learning. The craftsmanship in secondary vocational education is also important, as has been mentioned by several speakers. Education at all levels should provide scope for varied supply and an additional challenge for those who can do so. This is one of the reasons why we, together with the VO-Council, identify the need for more flexibility and customization in secondary education. There is also investment in better recognizable educational routes and a smooth transition between vo and mbo. From the school year 2016-2017 an experiment will be started with the professional route. As regards access to work and a decent safety net, I believe that the social agreement of 2013 and the implementation of the Work and Security Act have been important steps. These also fit in with the broader desire for a decent labour market, in which workers' rights are respected and improper use of constructions is avoided. To avoid false self-employment, the cabinet has taken measures that spread responsibility for compliance between the client and the contractor. In order to limit the uncertainty about possible bogus self-employment, clients and contractors can use an instrument that reduces the risk of a post-taxation charge, including as part of the discussions on the implementation of that part of the social agreement. The cabinet considers it very important that people who want to work can get started in quality jobs. Combating unemployment is our top priority, which I am now reporting for the third time this evening. This in response to questions about education, the labour market and participation in society. Mrs Barth also asked to look at a broader agenda with proposals and ideas to support the hard-working parents of young children and children of older parents. In this context, we have asked the Economic and Social Council, under the excellent President, Mrs Mariëtte Hamer, for advice on working and living in the future, including the combination of work and care. That advice is expected in early 2016. I said at the General Reviews in the House of Representatives that it will come at the end of 2015. I can now report that the planning has shifted slightly. This has been reported by the House of Representatives. The opinion will then be sent to Parliament as soon as possible, with a cabinet response. All these aspects will be taken into account. Then the position of the one and two earners. Mr Kuiper of the Christian Union and Mr Schalk of the SGP commented on this. Can I say a few things about that? The tax system in the Netherlands is largely individual and progressive. This indeed means that two individuals in a household who work pay less tax than a household in which the same gross income is earned by one person. The supplement system then looks at differences in carrying capacity. In addition, specific schemes are aimed at two-earners or single people with children, such as the income-dependent combination discount. It makes it easier for parents with young children to accept paid employment. Now there will be a package of reductions in the burden on labour. Because two people work with two earners, they are making more progress. The purchasing power development of sole earners is also similar to that of single people. The tax burden on single-earners is on average 24.5% next year, compared with 20.8% for two-earners. I note that Mr Schalk's example does not take into account the fact that only housewives are entitled to a higher child-related budget and that two-earners often incur childcare costs. If you're gonna meet single-wagers with kids, you gotta do something about that. Therefore, in 2016, as we know, the cabinet increases the amount of the child-related budget for the second child. The differences in disposable income are therefore less than the differences in the net income of these households. Having said all that, I realize that there are differences in the tax burden between single-earners and two-earners, as my colleague Eric Wiebes also mentioned at the Financial Reviews in the House of Representatives. We look favourably at concrete suggestions on this point. They will also be dealt with in the course of the Tax Plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u266	This political combination has been very committed to women's economic independence at an earlier stage, in the last century. I hope that these proposals will not interfere with the promotion of women's economic independence.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u267	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u268	It's on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u269	But we are going to look seriously at the wishes of the Christian Union and the SGP. However, we would like to make an effort to achieve a more common orientation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u270	In order to avoid misrepresentation, for years the difference in purchasing power between one earner and two earners has grown. The commitment in my contribution was that we want a participatory society, because we think it is important that labour and care are shared. That was also your point. We may get to the same point, but by a slightly different route. If you want labour and care to be shared, give space to people in society to do so. If one chooses to live on one income in a household, but also takes on care tasks, for example because there is a disabled child who needs care, we think that there should be room for that. It's a broader story than just looking at income figures. I would like to give you your example and your way of looking at this, but I think that the way of looking at the groups that have raised this is also very important for a viable society.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u271	I understand that Mr Kuiper and Mr Schalk are raising this issue. If you look at the sober figures, women who are not economically independent are really at great risk. If they are left alone because their husbands leave them or because they become widows, and women live on average six years longer than men, then they have no own pension, no own income, no provision. Then they are very quickly condemned to long-term poverty. It sounds very nice, but bringing people to the outskirts of society for a long time because they cannot take care of themselves is not good for a participatory society either. The cabinet then has the clean task of keeping a good balance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u272	As head of the case, I now delegate it to Mr Wiebes, but he has heard you very well. Right? That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u273	Mr Kuiper, very briefly on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u274	This isn't what I mean or what I want. It is up to the people themselves to organise their household as they wish. However, the cabinet speaks of a participatory society. In the years behind us, there has been a great appeal to the citizens, including in the financial sense. Now that things are getting better, people need to be given space to make their own choices, so that they can also do their care tasks.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u275	To Mrs Barth's dismay there is another subject on which Mr Kuiper, Mr Schalk and I agree, namely the importance of carers. However, I believe that we will have less conflict on this point. Both gentlemen made a comment on this in their first term. I can say that the cabinet has an extraordinary appreciation for carers and volunteers. Therefore, the position of carers has been strengthened in the Wmo 2015. Both the needy and the caregiver receive tailor-made support. This way we can avoid the overload of the caregiver. The valuation of the carers has become a task of municipalities in the Wmo 2015. They can make a choice independently for the way they support carers. They can also provide additional resources for this. We hold the system responsibility ourselves as the Empire. From this responsibility, we also monitor the implementation by the municipalities. Every year, 100 million euros are available to carers through the WMO budget. With several formal and informal care parties, we have prepared the Future Agenda for informal care and support. Healthcare professionals and carers are working to strengthen their cooperation. The municipalities are also involved. In addition, last month the program Volunteers started close by. This is a national support programme that costs EUR 1.4 million per year for three years. This programme has been launched following a motion by the Christian Union and the SGP and will strengthen the national voluntary organisations in care and well-being in achieving the matching and support of volunteers. Finally, under the Participation Act, municipalities may exempt a caregiver from paying compensation. When I look at the whole package, I think we're doing good things with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u276	In the Acts one cannot see the Prime Minister's smile with which he just made his comment. That is why I fully agree with the way in which the Christian Union and the SGP look at informal care. However, I have asked the Prime Minister to make it easier to combine family care with paid work and to facilitate this. I assume, with a question mark, that this will also be taken into account in the ESC opinion to which the Prime Minister has just referred.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u277	Oh, yeah. I took a look at the Minister for Social Affairs, because he is dealing with the ESC referrals. I can say yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u278	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u279	Then I come to the next issue, the position of unborn children. At present, there are 8.5 abortions per 1,000 women aged 15 to 44 years. This makes the Netherlands one of the countries with the lowest abortion rates. We have supportive policies aimed at preventing unwanted pregnancies. Many organisations in the Netherlands are involved. These are organisations that are trying to make young people sexually resilient. They're also subsidised. It is important that we teach young people in good time about safe and desirable sex. This can also prevent unwanted pregnancies. The information is done with special teaching packages for schools, but also via speaking hours, internet and so on. It is up to the woman in the Netherlands and then to the doctor to determine whether there is an emergency situation. I would also point out that the alternative to legal abortion is often illegal abortion. That's very undesirable. It could be dangerous, too. That is why we want to continue the policy. We give good information to the unwanted pregnant woman about the possibilities available. If, after the information on all the options, the woman chooses to have an abortion, there is also a mandatory period of reflection. So it's really very carefully framed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u280	I did not say in my term that there were 8.5 abortions on every 1,000 women. Because that doesn't even give you 1%. I've been talking about the 15% pregnancies that are being broken down. Then it's in a whole different light. Are those 30,000 cases a year, again, I say it with pain in my heart, all major emergencies? That was actually my main question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u281	It is up to the woman and then the doctor to determine this, after proper information has been given and after a period of reflection has been observed. The Netherlands is one of the countries with the lowest abortion rate. Apparently the figures are higher in other countries, but I don't have them ready. I understand that Mr Schalk, from his own point of view, will disregard his own view. The practice of abortion as it has grown in the Netherlands, with the sexual education, the period of reflection and so on, is, in my opinion, careful. It is, of course, always a complex consideration for the individual in the individual situation. In the end, it is up to the woman and the doctor to come to conclusions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u282	According to the Prime Minister's words, we are the country with about the lowest abortion rate. As far as I'm concerned, it may get even lower. I think that was clear in my intervention.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u283	I understand that, and I respect that. The CDA has asked how much care per older person remains in the period 2013 to 2017. Expenditure on inpatient care for the elderly per client is increasing from around €68.000 in 2013 to around €73.000 in 2017. Above all, you can see that there is an outflow in the low care packages. The average care gravity of the remaining clients is increasing. This increases the average cost per client towards 2017. Fortunately, there is no noticeably growing waiting list. The extra money for people in care homes is intended to increase the quality of life. Municipalities know very well what to do with their assigned tasks. In the current laws and regulations, citizens' rights are well and clearly safeguarded. As is well known, nursing and nursing homes are financed by the Long-term Care Act. In view of the increasing ageing population, spending on inpatient care for the elderly has increased from 7.7 billion in 2011 to 8.2 billion in 2015. That doesn't include capital costs. It's going to be, like the macro figure, 140,000 beds. As far as regional journalism is concerned, I agree with the OSF that local media play an important role. The 17 million discount on the regional broadcasters' budget is fixed. This cut has also been taken into account in "The new public regional media company: involved and reliable." This does not have to have a major impact on programming, since it is completed in such a way as to avoid programming as much as possible. This can be achieved by working towards a more effective and efficient organisation and more cooperation within the region and between national and regional public service broadcasting. In this connection, the Stichting Regionale Omroep Consultation and Cooperation, or Stichting ROOS, is leading. Another question from the OSF was about the Fries, namely whether the government is willing to take account of the fact that a Frisian broadcaster is not just about regional news, but also about a public medium. I would like to say to this: as......................................................................................................................................................... It's one of three rich languages, so I'm gonna try. The cabinet considers the special position of the Frisian language to be important. That is why we are also working on a legislative proposal on regional public service broadcasting in which the Frisian media offer and its own supply channel for the province of Fryslân are legally secured. We aim to bring this bill into force as of 1 January 2017. The government will take into account and consult with the province and other stakeholders when drafting this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u284	That meeting's nice. Of course, I'm grateful for that. I believe that the province can also be asked to contribute to the financing of this. The responsibility for the Fries lies with the government and with the province. Both are therefore entitled to contribute to this. I am particularly concerned about the following. The position, the task and the mission of the Frisian broadcaster is expressly different from that of the other regional broadcasters. We in Friesland feel that this should lead to a separate status. If the government wishes to negotiate this explicitly with the county administration, we are satisfied for the time being.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u285	I can still mention that Omrop Fryslân now receives an additional financial contribution in the framework of the Friesian language and culture board agreement, as well as for, among other things, Frisian programming on the national channels. The bill I have just mentioned will secure this additional contribution, which we will also follow the advice of the Hoekstra Committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u286	The opinion of the Hoekstra Committee goes considerably beyond the funding of some special productions. This opinion goes in the direction of an independent broadcaster capable of making its own programmes, independently of the regional broadcasting foundation. That is why I said in the first term that the most fundamental solution is: besides the Dutch Public Broadcasting and the regional public broadcasters, a separate Frisian public service broadcasting. There are other modalities for this, but such status should be discussed. I do not think it is appropriate to undergo the system of twelve in a dozen regional broadcasting.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u287	Before I made the mistake of saying extra money in this respect, which was not my intention: this is the additional financial contributions in connection with the Frisian language and culture administration agreement and also for, among other things, Frisian programming on the national channels. Those extra contributions will be secured. That's the way to put it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u288	The Prime Minister doesn't really go into what I'm saying. I'd still like him to say something about it. I'm interested in the status of this station. That's not a typical regional station. It's a very special case. Let us treat it as such.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u289	I could answer that question now, but in order to provide the officials with some work, I would ask them to prepare for the second time a thorough answer to this point. I'm almost done. I still have a few points. We have already exchanged a lot of things. There was another suggestion for the execution tests by planning agencies. D66 and CDA asked what lessons the cabinet draws from the critical reports of the General Court and the National Ombudsman on the functioning of public services. The reforms we have implemented are system changes that are often profound for people and do not go by themselves. We are aware that the first year of implementation of the reforms is accompanied by some initial problems. When you look at the whole story, you see that a lot has changed. Grosso Modo is doing well with the reforms, but we are certainly not there yet. A number of components require adjustment. Many implementation problems are linked to ICT. We are busy implementing the recommendations of the Elias Committee. The ICT testing office started on 1 July with a pilot period in which a number of ICT projects are assessed. Furthermore, we take the time to prepare the changes properly. An example of this is the introduction of the new surcharge system. One of the success factors was that the Tax Administration was given the space to take sufficient time to introduce the new system and to deviate from the original planning. The second example is the introduction of the pre-filled declaration, the VIA, which has been introduced gradually. I personally think that is a great innovation too. At the same time, more time doesn't always help. A longer transition period also means that people sometimes stay longer in uncertainty. Implementation tests to achieve better enforceable legislation certainly help in this respect. We do so on many points, for example on the basis of a feasibility and enforcement test. This so-called U&H test is discussed extensively with all kinds of parties involved in the implementation of a law. This is a mandatory requirement in the integrated balancing framework. Furthermore, the explanatory memorandum to a proposal should provide answers to the questions raised in that U&H test. The Council of State shall assess the adequacy of this in the context of the request for an opinion. In addition, the cabinet is currently investigating, in the context of the implementation of the motion of MP Oosenbrug from the Lower House, whether background documents on the feasibility review should also be made public. That's happening differently by department right now, so it's good to look at that. Also, in view of the National Ombudsman's report on the right to draw in the personal budget, as part of the future-proof legislation programme, the cabinet would like to further examine how to improve the provision of good and reliable information on the feasibility of legislation. I would like to take into account the suggestion concerning the planning agencies, as well as experience from, for example, abroad, also at EU level. We're gonna take a look at that. The last question is about Johan van Oldenbarnevelt. The question by the chairman of the Socialist Party, Mr Kox, was about the transfer of the statue to the Binnenhof. First of all, I am pleased to note that Mr Kox is doing well with Johan van Oldenbarnevelt. He was once buried in the then Hofkapel, in this wing of the Binnenhof, something this way, which the First Chamber now shares with among others the Council of Ministers and the Department where I am allowed to stay. I would add that Van Oldenbarnevelt was not very much in favour of the adage that the States-General was the highest body in the Republic. He was typically a pensionary of Holland and he thus had the sovereignty of the regions now in charge of provinces. I can mention that he paid quite a high price for that. I greet him every morning from the Tower when I see him sitting. I can look at him and another predecessor, Johan de Witt, who has also come to an unpleasant end. I don't think moving his statue is a good thing. He'd be looking out for his own memorial stone. His watchful eye is no longer resting on this beautiful Chamber. He is now about right behind here by the Members of, may I say, the provinces, for which he has just died. Apart from this, relocation would raise the question of whether it would not become too crowded at the Binnenhof. There is already a fountain with a statue of Count Willem II, Roomsch king, while at the edges of the Binnenhof there are statues of stadholder Willem I, the Father of the Fatherland, King Willem II, Prime Minister Drees and, of course, councilwoman Johan de Witt. This political historical ensemble now surrounds the Binnenhof. In this circle, Van Oldenbarnevelt on his side of the Hofvijver is an indispensable, but also valuable link within that tradition. I would like to say: let us respect and appreciate this statesman by letting him stay on his beautiful lookout and continue to inspire us from there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u290	If no one gets mad right now, I probably answered all the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u291	That's what I'm assuming. The sitting will now be suspended for 15 minutes, until 10 p.m. Then we'll move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u292	I call Mr Brinkman of the CDA for his second term contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u293	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Prime Minister very much for his answers, given to us. He's a humble man, and that graces him. He implicitly said that the Binnenhof is already so full of statues that he has no place for a statue there. However, he did not complain about it, so pay tribute to that modesty. And also, and a little more seriously, for the fact that the Prime Minister has alternated seriously. There was right to be serious when it came to this day with the nasty memories of the MH17. In his words, he rightly gave a place to the reactions. I will not dwell too long on that today. However, I would like to say that the Prime Minister may have misinterpreted my introductory words, warning for too many "please experience." I have one specific question. The Prime Minister said that this is the largest package of reforms a cabinet has implemented since the war. My question is whether it has been since World War I or since World War II. The Prime Minister can read my introduction in the Acts and then reply to it. The Prime Minister says that he will continue to work soberly and fairly on the issue of immigration. That is what we are waiting for and will be debated in the House of Representatives. I would like to warn you that if it rains and freezes in a moment, we will soon not be able to come up with the answers given here today, no matter how precisely formulated by the Prime Minister. There are, of course, a number of things that Europe is now asking national governments to give concrete effect to. So I can imagine that mayors and others who are doing it in practice, but also many volunteers, would like to know where they stand. I'm not going to repeat all the points. The subject will undoubtedly be discussed tomorrow. I advise the Prime Minister not only to repeat what he has said here tomorrow. He probably won't, but I'll just say for sure that there's a need for concreteness. The Prime Minister has said that pensioners are actually quite finished, even compared to the beginning of the century. That's a bit of a statistical observation. He says that the indexations, or rather the non-indexations, are the problem of pension funds. Of course, that's not true. He sets out a financial review framework and also does a number of things about wages for the sectors he deals with. That is in itself his right, but the consequence of all this is that there is less room to index. Then he can't say, "Well, people shouldn't complain too quickly." Moreover, many of the people who are now retired face the question of what additional benefits they can add from their wealth. I think that when we discuss the Tax Plan we really need to take this point again, even because the Prime Minister says that we are not quite finished with the reforms. We are perhaps going to face the biggest reform under his inspiring leadership, namely a substantial remodelling of the pension. I'm warning you against this. Read again what we have on this...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u294	Mrs. Barth.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u295	Thank you, Mr President, I was looking for the moment when Mr Brinkman breathed. I hear Mr Brinkman saying that the cabinet is too passive, given the standstill of pensions. Am I translating it that well? However, when we talk about the cause of the fact that pensions cannot or cannot be indexed, we are mainly talking about low interest rates and the fact that life expectancy in the Netherlands has unexpectedly increased rapidly. I see the cabinet on all sides doing everything possible to raise this low interest rate; the whole policy of the cabinet is to speed up the economic recovery so that the interest rate can go up again. I hope, however, that Mr Brinkman agrees with me that the increased life expectancy of the Dutch is not something that a cabinet should want to do something about in policy terms.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u296	No, but it's about the risk assessments. I give an example from the practice, which I knew reasonably well until recently, namely when investments in real estate are said to be a tricky business for a long time. That is exactly my reasoning to note that close to home there are very good profitable investments, where you do not have to invest in all kinds of complicated products. In practice, you run into these risk approaches, not those mortality tables and not those low interest rates, but just those risk analyses. I don't want to spend too much time on it right now. My suggestion is to take this point again when dealing with the Tax Plan later. That's where things run together, when you finally look at purchasing power. At least that's my suggestion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u297	I still have one more question. I also heard Mr Brinkman protesting against the adjustment of the financial review framework. I assume he's referring to the new calculation of the Ultimate Forward Rate. I also said a number of years ago that we should choose a stable rate for this. The cabinet has done so for a number of years, but in the current situation it is no longer realistic to hold on to the interest rate used until this summer, when we see that interest rates remain so low for so long. Well, then you're working with the pension funds to calculate yourself unjustly rich, no matter how annoying that is. We cannot stress enough how heavy and how annoying it is for all pensioners in the Netherlands, but it is also important for future generations to work at a realistic rate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u298	I understand that you want to defend government policy, but in the pension world the Prime Minister will probably be looked at in the near future. Then you get all kinds of complicated questions; I also mentioned them in the first term. You shouldn't hammer this through quickly, because then you will have real problems with the support. Then the funds set up in the second pillar from the point of view of collectivity simply run empty. That can't be your intention. Nor is it a tradition of your party. So pay attention to what you are discussing there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u299	Finally, Mrs Barth.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u300	Sure, that is absolutely not the intention. Perhaps it is good to discuss the Tax Plan a little bit more, but it is just too easy for me to put the ball all the way down for the purpose of the cabinet, even though there are simply exogenous factors, which the cabinet can have little or no influence on, although it does do its utmost to improve. I think we should be honest with the Dutch people and say that these factors are also the cause of the current situation in pension funds. Otherwise, we are creating a false impression among the Dutch people, namely that this can be influenced by politics, whereas for a very large part this is simply not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u301	I didn't talk about that either. I have been talking about matters that are influenced by politics. The same applies to the question of location choices for energy production at sea. The Minister of EZ made a commitment here when examining the relevant draft law a few months ago, namely that he will return to this Chamber with his intended choice and probably also to the other side. Now the Prime Minister says that the cabinet will probably be working close to the coast. I really do not recommend this; the Prime Minister should be more careful with the commitments that have been made. I didn't say we weren't voting cattle for nothing. Soon something will come up with Eneco and DELTA; I will just mention it as an example. Be careful with those quickies. I share the Prime Minister's view that we can talk about how we should deal with the budget for development cooperation and other aspects of the cost of immigration. I shall therefore continue to remain silent on this point. Finally, I come to a very important point, as I said. I would like to put a ruling to the Chamber, if that is all right with you, Mr President, on the position in which the rule of law is in our opinion. I think I have made it clear in the case of interruption how serious we are about this point. We do not like to speak threatening language. I happened to sit next to the Minister of Finance and he said: they are very strong words. I don't know if he had that against me or against anyone else. But we are not sitting here for nothing, and if almost a whole Chamber says it has to be different, then it is good to listen to it, assuming that the Cabinet will want to discuss this motion later and that we can vote on it as well. The President shall: Mr Brinkman, Mr Kox, Mr Nagel, Mr Schalk, Mr Koffeman, Mr Kuiper, Mr De Graaf and Mr Strik proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there are major problems in the field of security and justice, in particular in the case-law, the prosecution, the police, probation, access to justice and the NFI, which could lead to a violation of the rule of law;]] [[Whereas the budget proposed by the Government does not provide sufficient opportunities to deal with existing problems;]] [[Whereas there is a great urgency to change this, and the clarification of the budget cannot wait until the end of December;]] [[calls on the Government to undertake today to reconsider the budget of Security and Justice and to make additional investments in the areas mentioned above,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-B]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u302	This is not just a hobby of our group. Mr Kox has also put a lot of effort into the motion, but you can see from the signatories that this has broad sympathy. I hope that we will also be able to count on the sympathy of the cabinet on this point. When dealing with the Tax Plan, we will come back to the figures on the tax revenue provided by the Prime Minister. I would like to thank him very much for his precision and, in general, for the way in which he has wanted to have this debate. It happened fast, and I needed to speak fast. We will read it over and over again, because we have not yet been able to discuss it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u303	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Prime Minister not only for the content, but also for the way he did it. The speed with which he has responded to the enormous list of subjects that were discussed today deserves some admiration on our part. I just want to say that. I spoke on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party about access to the labour market for older workers. I have indicated that there are a number of objections and problems; they would say'snap-snap-snap-snap-snap-snap-snap-snap-snap-snap-snap', they would say in the Frisian language. Then the Prime Minister can write that down for the future. There are a number of barriers which make access to the labour market more difficult for older people, but also for immigrants. It is very necessary to make maximum use of the experience and knowledge available. That is why we will be tabling a motion together with the Labour Party to ask for initiatives from the cabinet in this area. There are currently mobility bonuses, there is a no-risk policy and there is a training voucher, but there are still a number of obstacles that make access to the labour market even more difficult. So we need to see how we can cope with that. The second point is the budget for security and justice. I have indicated what I have said. The Prime Minister replied. It seems very clear to me that the Prime Minister clearly understood the situation, not only in this house, but also across the street. He has already indicated how he intends to shape the various discussions on this subject over the coming period. As far as my group is concerned, the Prime Minister and the Cabinet are given the room to follow that line now and to come forward with a way of identifying the risks and a way in which the Cabinet intends to identify possible risks. The third point concerns migration. We have discussed this at length. I think it is a good thing that this Prime Minister and this cabinet have taken on board the various proposals of different political parties and consider how they can formulate policies that respond to the different wishes and desires, not only of coalition parties but also of others. I have seen proposals from D66, the Labour Party and the VVD; I will come back to the VVD proposal immediately. All these proposals are now integrated into government policy. None of the political parties will be able to say that the policy in this area is 100% of it. The power of this cabinet is to ensure that these matters are brought together. In the end, work must be done to solve the problem: not only call calls, but also how it could be solved. That's what the Cabinet is doing very emphatically. Finally, I would like to say a few words about the Azmani plan. Now I have to admit to Mr Kox that Mrs Merkel did not call Mr Azmani. I'd like to make that knee trap for him. I did bring a document for Mr Kox. There's a vacation coming up, so he'll have plenty of time to take a good look at that. I took for him the Council conclusions of 14 September 2015 from the Council of the European Union. It contains the European Union's plans, which clearly also have lines in the direction of what Azmani has proposed. That seems to me to be an important point. I'd like to hand that over to you, Mr. Kox. There is one thing we know for sure, namely that those parties who submit plans and have ideas also contribute to a real solution to this whole problem. I think we all agree that this is a major problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u304	For plans of the VVD we are always open, but we are not always open to taking over the plans of the VVD. I also think that we are not always open to adopting the European Council's plans. I shall, of course, examine Mr Hermans' document. In the meantime, is he prepared to study the VVD's migration note? It's seven pages, so that should be done in seven days' vacation. Then he must read the one sentence that concerns us and others: only European refugees in Europe. That's the core for me. That is what the plan says: Europe only for European refugees, so receiving others elsewhere, in the region. If the VVD agrees with the SP that that phrase should come out, let's just say that Malik didn't go well for a while and that of course this cannot be the opinion of the VVD, we are a lot further. But it is in it, on page 7: Europe only for European refugees, and for everyone who comes from outside Europe elsewhere. We disagreed on that. I hope that the VVD now agrees with me that this is not the attitude of the VVD group, not that of the cabinet and not that of Frau Merkel.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u305	I shall, of course, take a closer look at that note. Seven pages in seven days should be done. I've got exactly seven pages for you here, too. That is what we must be able to get out of together over the next few days. In the conclusions you will read under number 15 that what you have fought in this way has been taken over by European ministers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u306	Mr. Chairman. Let me begin by thanking the Prime Minister sincerely for the many answers he has given and for his reflections and explanations. In substance, they were not necessarily all equally satisfactory to me, but the Prime Minister has done justice to the debate that is taking place in this Chamber. He owes me one answer, and he knows it. He did not comment on my comments on his views on the jihadganger and his statement that he could easily allow personal views to exist alongside cabinet policy. I would like to have a reaction to that. I would also like to thank him very much for condemning the anti-parliamentary texts that have been used in this House. I've been looking into what mataglap means. That's an Indian term "an immigrant term," you might say! "Blinded by rage." I actually thought that was appropriate, so I thought: let me give you the translation of his words here. There's been a lot going on; I'm picking out a few things. We will discuss the reduction of charges without the tax reform, as far as I am concerned, when the Tax Plan will reach our Chamber. I would point out in advance that my group is very critical of this. The budget for V and J, which I have also discussed in detail in detail in the first period, has now been exchanged sufficiently. Of course we also support Mr Brinkman's motion. I do not think that this Chamber can give a clearer signal to the cabinet about the possibility of a budget debate going on really unpleasantly. There is much more to be said about refugee policy. The commitment to remain within the Refugee Convention and to present it to this Chamber is important. Then we can look in this Chamber to see if we can continue the debate on this matter. I respond positively to what the Prime Minister said about the Guantánamo Bay prisoners. That was further and a step in the right direction compared to what the Foreign Minister said earlier and wrote in reply to parliamentary questions. Finally, I have two motions for resolutions. The first motion deals with the labour market in relation to thezzp'ers and the excellent ibo-report recently published. In this motion, the cabinet is asked not to wait, but to come up with a short-term view and make suggestions. I'd like to hand you this motion, Madam President. The President shall: Mr De Graaf, Mr Strike, Mr Kox, Mr Brinkman, Mr Rinnooy Kan and Mr Kuiper proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in recent years the Dutch labour market has been characterised by a strong rise of self-employed workers who, in addition to traditional employers and employees, make their own valuable contribution to the Dutch economy;]] [[Whereas the recent ibozzp supports the urgent need for a fundamental rethink of the organisation of the labour market which reduces the excessive differences between self-employed and employees;]] [[whereas the Cabinet endorses this conclusion but, subject to a number of limited reforms, does not go beyond an invitation to a broad public debate on this urgent issue;]] [[calls on the government, in the short term, to come up with its own views on how more balanced relationships between employees and self-employed workers can be achieved in the labour market, including the policies that can ensure this;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-C]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u307	Finally, I have another motion calling on the Court to rule that, given a number of circumstances, the administration of the police can best return to the Ministry of the Interior. In this way the balance of powers can be better divided and the Ministry of Security and Justice can also be relieved. I would also like to give you this motion, Madam President. The President shall: Mr De Graaf, Mr Koffeman, Mr Kuiper, Mr Kox, Mr Nagel, Mr Ten Hoeve and Mr Barth proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the rehabilitation of the Ministry of Justice to Security and Justice has contributed to problems of governance, increasing deconstitution and a difficult criminal justice chain;]] [[noting that the implementation of the National Police is also failing;]] [[Considers that, from the legal point of view of separation of powers, it is desirable and necessary to separate the police functions of detection and enforcement of law and order;]] [[considers, furthermore, that it would be better to return police management to the Ministry of the Interior and Kingdom Relations at the next cabinet formation;]] [[invites the Government to undertake the preparation of the operation referred to in the preceding recital,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-D]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u308	Mr. Chairman. Before I begin my second term, I would like to express my personal thanks on behalf of our entire group, to all the colleagues who have come to us today to express some words of support. In particular, I would like to thank Mr Schalk and the Prime Minister, who did so during the debate. It is a difficult day for many people today, with very confrontational images. That's what it is for us as a PvdA group. Today we are thinking of our colleague Willem Witteveen, his wife, his daughter and his entire family who is left behind. I've never done this in public before. However, the support we receive from many colleagues is very good for us. Thank you very much for that. I would also like to thank the Prime Minister for his other answers. After all, we must be able to have the debate today. I'm happy with a lot of his answers. I also welcome the commitments he has made on the position of low-skilled workers and the advice to be given by the ESC on labour and care, with a response from the cabinet. We look forward to this with much and increased interest. I am also pleased with the answers given by the Prime Minister to the question of how the cabinet will continue to receive refugees in the Netherlands. The PvdA Group believes that the Netherlands has an international reputation to uphold a country that has stood for values such as tolerance, freedom, hospitality and openness for centuries. We are proud to represent all Dutch people who feel the same way, both in this house and across the street. The Prime Minister said that the cabinet still thinks that unemployment in the Netherlands is too high. That's what we think. That is what the coalition thinks, and many parties in this Chamber find that. Today, we have called for special attention to be paid to the position of older people and immigrants. The Prime Minister has outlined what the cabinet is already doing in this area. However, we believe that this approach needs to be stepped up, precisely because it is so painful that the trend of rising employment and falling unemployment for these two groups is not yet visible. We believe that all the unemployed in the Netherlands should take part in this trend. That is why I have the pleasure of tabling a motion on this subject, on behalf of my colleague, Mr Hermans. The President shall: Mr Barth, Mr Hermans, Mr Postema, Mr Beuving, Mr Van de Ven and Mr Huijbregts-Schiedon proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that, according to CPB estimates, unemployment in the Netherlands will fall to 6.7% of the labour force in 2016,]] [[Whereas unemployment among older people and immigrants is expected to continue to rise against this trend;]] [[Whereas the employers' costs associated with hiring or having older people are relatively high;]] [[Whereas collective agreements often contain provisions which may make it difficult to employ or have older people, such as age-related arrangements;]] [[Considers that it is undesirable that groups of Dutch people continue to miss membership of the labour market due to discrimination, thereby depriving them of opportunities for development, economic prosperity and making a meaningful contribution to society;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with social partners, to identify ways of increasing the employment rate of older people and immigrants and to submit the results to the Chamber by 1 January 2017,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-E]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u309	Why does Mrs Barth think it is necessary, in this Chamber, where several majorities are possible, to table a motion with the VVD in which two things stand out immediately? One is the lower employer's burden and the other is the intervention in collective agreements. Is that the only thing the PvdA can do here? She could have come to talk to us and a lot of other parties. Then we could really have done something. Mrs Barth said last year that work, work and work are priorities one, two and three. She found that everything was going well, but the unemployment remained. But unemployment hardens and lasts, and unemployment concentrates on the elderly. 30% of society can no longer come. However, it is now tabling a motion calling on the government to talk about reducing employers' burdens and adjusting collective agreements. That the VVD is filing that motion, I understand. But I find it very strange that Mrs Barth is filing this motion for the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u310	There is much more in the motion than the two elements mentioned by Mr Kox. It also states, for example, that discrimination in the labour market needs to be tackled much harder. It is very simple: we think that you should want to examine any possibility of dealing with the problem of unemployment among older people and immigrants. Again, unemployment among these groups is against the trend in not falling, but even rising. So the motion also calls for this to be investigated. We are not asking for it to be carried out, but for it to be examined and discussed with the social partners. If that consultation with the social partners reveals that this is a no-go, we would like to hear it from the cabinet. However, if your work is really so important, we think you should have the courage to investigate everything and keep the good. The problem is serious enough for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u311	When you're in the government, you use that position, right? Why don't you tell the government to do something about it? There are a lot of things in this budget, but apart from the one thruster that the Minister mentioned, we're shooting 5 billion in the air, and then it's all gonna be fine. There's not a single plan to tackle this unemployment. Then, as a government party, the PvdA has to say: we always get our asses kicked by the opposition here, now we can do something because we still have the power together, at least on the other side, and now we demand that the government do something? Mrs Barth, however, demands that the government talk to the social partners to reduce employers' burdens and reduce collective agreements. That's really weird.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u312	Mr. Kox does this a lot. That's his right, but I'll keep saying I don't think that's right. He's now selectively quoting from the motion. There are other things that are also important for strengthening employment for older people and immigrants. Please quote from the motion with all the nuances that go with it. It is inconceivable that the approach to employment for older people and immigrants would be stepped up without the social partners. That would be the best guarantee that nothing will happen and that nothing will be stepped up, because without the social partners there will be no employment policy in this country. The support of the social partners is very important. The cabinet is doing a lot more than that 5 billion. I mention the bonus for older workers and the training facility. Activities are already taking place against discrimination in the labour market. The coalition believes that it needs to be strengthened, that it needs to be intensified and that it needs to be stepped up. That is what we are asking for with this motion. I would be delighted if Mr Kox could support that. Once again, the motion calls for work to be done, to be examined and to be discussed. I cannot imagine Mr Kox having any objection to that. Suppose employers' burdens are detrimental to the position of older people in the labour market. Then we can't look away, can we? Then we have to do something about that, don't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u313	I quoted selectively because the chairman had already read the whole motion. When one of the members of the PvdA group came to ask if my group wanted to sign the motion, I said about the two elements I quoted: I think the operative part is excellent, but I do not like these two things, because those are VVD things; delete them and I will sign them immediately. Then, of course, I was told that the VVD wanted that in there. Then let the VVD defend those cases. Mrs Barth is now defending the elements necessary for the VVD for this motion. That's why the SP doesn't agree to the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u314	I am defending that tackling this problem is so important and that trend is so wrong that you have to dare not shy away from taboos. You have to face everything and see if that can help to improve the employment of older people. The most important thing is that people do not stand aside, but that they can get back to work. If you map the causes of the problem, if you ask to investigate things, you should not say in advance: but you should not look at them. Let's say we're missing something that might help. Then we all sold the elderly and the immigrants in the Netherlands a hopeless message. That's what I'm defending.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u315	We absolutely agree on the importance and urgency of tackling this discrimination in the labour market. However, I wonder why Mrs Barth is making such a low effort. It is asking for a map of the possibilities and for the results to be sent to the Chamber in almost one and a half years' time. Why doesn't she say: we just want to see those opportunities before 1 July 2016? It can then take action during this cabinet period. Otherwise, she might be just too late.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u316	I understand that signal. Therefore, the motion states that it must be done by 1 January 2017. I always like working with time limits in motions, because otherwise it will be pushed all the way down the road. If the cabinet is able to come forward with ideas, solutions and an intensified approach earlier on from that consultation with the social partners, that is of course not prohibited at all. In fact, I would very much welcome that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u317	Can I agree with Mrs Barth that next year we will continue to ask the government about these plans to tackle this discrimination?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u318	I'd love to. The sooner, the better and the more effective we can tackle the position of immigrants and older people who are on the side of the labour market, the better and the better it is for us.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u319	Mr. Chairman. It's a sad day. The borders remain wide open. The flow of asylum, the Islamic invasion, is not put in the way of straws, with all the consequences. If you give that a countersound, you'll be deprived of the word. You're not just throwing away my party, you're putting away our voter in particular. That is not only the PVV-chooser, but also the electorate of all those parties who are so concerned about the input of the PVV. This room is leaving these people in the cold. The people who have had enough. Who rightly worry about the future of their city, about our country. They see that they're being replaced. They're right to worry. About their daughters: can they still be safe on the street? About our elders, who don't get the care they deserve. About our children, who will not be able to grow up in freedom. During these General Reviews it became clear that it does not matter for this cabinet how much it will cost. Minister Dijsselbloem has said today that it will all cost more and that the budget will fail. The Prime Minister is very happy to say that the reception of refugees has no boundaries, both in numbers and in financial terms: a blank cheque in practice, a budget with an open end for which the population is allowed to bleed. It's a sad day, but the PVV won't let it go. The PVV comes together with the people in the country in resistance, in opposition to the employers. We, the country, the Dutch people, the resistance, will prevail, whether you like it or not, because the truth always wins.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u320	May I ask Mrs Faber to be somewhat more specific about the resistance? What is the aim of this resistance, what are the methods of action of this resistance and what can we expect in the short term? Or is it just: it actually sounds pretty good, so let me just put it this way?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u321	It is a question of non-violent democratic resistance. By this we mean: citizens, let your voice be heard on public participation evenings, on information evenings and let your boards know what you think.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u322	What the hell are these civilians doing? Then what's the resistance? I'm very much in favour of them making themselves heard. I like getting there, I think that's a very good thing and anyone can say what they want. However, I think Mrs Faber means something else. The aim of the resistance is to prevent a refugee from entering the Netherlands. Am I getting that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u323	Mr Kox is well aware of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u324	How is Mrs Faber going to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u325	The people in the country can indicate that they don't want azc in the backyard. They can report this to their congregation, for example.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u326	Is Mrs Faber going to say to those people: if you say 'no azc, no large-scale shelter or anything else', which can be very legitimate, then you will participate in our plan that we do not want to do so anywhere in the Netherlands? Many people say: not here, because I have a number of reasons. Will Mrs Faber honestly say to those people: you will then participate in the plan that no refugee, no matter how bad his fate and whatever he has been through, will enter our country? Then she must be honest with those people, because otherwise she will be doing folly tricks.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u327	It seems to me that I have been honest, because I have clearly indicated here that we do not want any refugees. I can't be any clearer, and that's what I'm just telling these people.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u328	I hear Mrs Faber saying 'we, the Dutch people'. That intrigued me somewhat, because I know a lot of people who feel absolutely unrepresented by the PVV. Can Mrs Faber say something more precise what she means by her statement?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u329	According to the polls, more than half of the Dutch population does not want to receive additional refugees. More than half of them don't want an azc in the backyard. That's the majority of the population. So I guess I can say this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u330	I wouldn't simply deduce this from the polls, absolutely not. Certainly not half of it. I see a lot of people around me who want the refugees to be well received and who themselves make a big contribution to this. And yet, Mrs Faber cannot speak of 'we, the Dutch people'. I can't do that. Neither will GroenLinks. Mrs Faber will have to confine herself to those who voted for her party. Be a little more careful with that!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u331	I don't have to do anything. I stand before our electorate, but also before the other voters who share this view. That Mrs. Strik in her circles would not know these people, could be. According to the polls, however, most of the Dutch people do not want azc in the backyard. Most of them do not want to receive refugees anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u332	Mr. Chairman. I agree with Mrs Faber's last contribution. It's mataglap. You are blinded by rage, I say to Mrs Faber through the chairman. There's a laugh, but I wouldn't laugh if someone said you were mataglap and blinded by rage. Rage is a state of anger in which the person no longer thinks, while he cools his anger on his surroundings. This is how it is described in the Dutch dictionary. I'm sure Mrs Faber thinks that's very important, Dutch and Dutch dictionary. If this were to be said about me or my group, my reaction would be to look in the mirror to see if it is really that bad. I wondered in the first term and during the interruptions what it is now that the PVV is doing so. When I looked at what the Dutch translation of mataglap is, blind rage, I understood that it caught the party. That's very serious. I'm really worried about it. When we are in Strasbourg, I am doing well with you, and you can laugh about it, but we are all doing well. I am truly concerned that a party is so keen to stir up people outside this house, especially not to seek a solution to a terribly difficult problem, and above all to seek 'all out, no one in it'. I can't understand. I've known Geert Wilders a long time. I knew him from the time he was still in the VVD, and then he said weird things. However, fury is the best description for this type of far-reaching matter. I ask the PVV group if it will continue to do so. What is the superior stairs of this opinion: should people leave the country that are already here, or other people who do not like the party? I wouldn't recommend it. It is a serious concern, although I understand that this is not the case with the PVV group. At the moment, it is only the polls that guide it. Pails are beautiful, Mrs Faber, but using your mind and your heart can't hurt either. My group expressed its concern at the state of the rule of law during the General Reviews. We have the impression that the Prime Minister, whom I thank for his response and his intensive participation in the debate, has not stood up to his antenna on this subject. The Prime Minister did not discuss the state of the rule of law with this Chamber, but it must now be clear to the government that the First Chamber is drawing a line here and says that it is not going to get over this. It is as Minister Van der Steur put in a collision car with his hands in the air and let him drive to the First Chamber in December to defend the budget of V and J. That's gonna be a hopeless business. The Prime Minister shouldn't do that to that man. It is not necessary and we do not wish him to do so. There's been enough trouble at the V and J Department. We've already suffered enough damage. A motion has been tabled on this subject. The fact that we have re-established a good cooperation between CDA and SP, which has led to the signing of the motion by a majority of the First Chamber, may be a signal. General Reviews are also meant to tell each other something. I find the Prime Minister's reasoning that he wants to go to the Lower House first and then come to the Upper Chamber somewhat easy. That is not the order in which the budget is dealt with. My advice to the government is to listen carefully to what the Chamber says today. Do not get over it, then Minister Van der Steur simply has a pleasant December month. I have already made it clear in my interruption to Mrs Barth that I am concerned about the social state. A lot of things may be going well, and I would like to compliment the cabinet for that, but unemployment is incredibly bad shape. It's taking far too little, and all the numbers aren't right. 6.7% unemployment next year is very high. Mrs Barth knows that too, and she thinks so too. That's why she told the cabinet last year that priority was one, two and three: work, work, work. To come up with a three-time no-movement calling for action in one and a half years' time, for which the employer's burden must first be reduced and the collective agreement must be broken, I find it very disappointing by Mrs Barth. I expected more from her on that point. One more comment on the fact that we must avoid contradictions among the people due to the lack of housing. I heard Mrs Barth say to my great joy that social housing must be built and that D66 must be included. I would like to support her wholeheartedly in that. That's what we need to do. We already know the solution. We need to convert this stupid landlord tax into an investment obligation for corporations. I refer to a fellow party member of Mrs Barth, Mr Calon, who says: we are ready, we can do so in a moment, let us do so. I'd like to get a response from the Prime Minister. Finally, I would like to make a light remark. The Prime Minister was well briefed about Johan van Oldenbarnevelt, but not about the last part of his life. At that time he was no longer a lawyer of the States of Holland, but of the States-General. As it often happens in politics: whose bread one eats, whose word one speaks. Johan van Oldenbarnevelt was really a big fan of the States-General as the highest state body. You can't know everything as Prime Minister, but I think my proposal to put his image here deserves at least a rematch. Perhaps a small statue of Prime Minister Rutte could also be placed at the Binnenhof. I wouldn't make it too big, but the fact is that he is not only having his last debate today in his first five years as Prime Minister, but that in ten days' time, if he lasts, we will have the longest-standing Liberal Prime Minister of the Netherlands. Cort van der Linden only went ten days over his five years, so then there is real reason to party. It was just an excuse to remind the Prime Minister of my proposal at the beginning of my first term that we will have a drink later.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u333	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Prime Minister very much for his comprehensive reply. I am particularly pleased that the Prime Minister has promised to continue his efforts to prevent polarisation and to continue to increase support, which is of such great importance for the reception of refugees. This subject really does not lend itself to political games. We will continue to encourage the Prime Minister to continue to talk about the refugee issue in the Netherlands in this way. We really need to be fully committed to integration. The Prime Minister has outlined everything that is going on in that regard. He comes in the Navy's note with the necessary budgets. I would like to point out the budgets that the municipalities desperately need for the social support of refugees. The UNG issued an alarming report last year, which shows that they are facing major deficits in this area. On the contrary, a great deal of individual guidance is needed to refer people to bodies and to be able to actually deliver on that guidance to work. I would ask the Prime Minister to examine whether that budget can also be increased and to report to us on this. The cabinet's sketch of the future has been explained. We are still not convinced that that should be the direction. In fact, it means that Europe, at least this cabinet, wants to transfer responsibility for refugees to the region. Those are countries that have not asked for it, which have nothing to choose and where it is very disruptive, because they are dealing with such large numbers that they have to absorb there. The Prime Minister is talking very vaguely about an overpressure valve, of which we cannot see what that means and when that valve is starting to work, which means inviting people to this region. That is why I would very much like to ask for a ruling from the Chamber on this subject, calling on the Prime Minister, when a European resettlement policy is proposed, to use it to get more binding agreements to actually invite the refugees, if they are not allowed to apply spontaneously here in Europe. That proposal will be made. Right now, it's completely non-binding. How many countries invite from the region? I would like the Prime Minister to wholeheartedly support the Commission's proposal to establish a European resettlement policy. The President shall: Mr Strik, Mr Kox, Mr De Graaf, Mr Koffeman and Mr Ganzevoort proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, in the conflict regions, reception for refugees is largely limited to a few countries;]] [[Whereas it is important to reduce their reception pressure, including through the resettlement of refugees in the EU Member States;]] [[Whereas the European Commission will propose a structured resettlement scheme for refugees;]] [[calls on the Government to take a positive view of a European resettlement scheme,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-F]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u334	My other topic was the greening and sustainability of the Netherlands and of Europe. The Prime Minister himself said that unfortunately the tax reforms did not go that far, because the negotiations failed. The cabinet could have carried out that greening itself. Now that this has not happened, now that this opportunity has not been seized, we really have a lot of additional measures to take in order to achieve all these objectives. I am referring, of course, to the energy agreement, but also to the agreements which the Netherlands has made in a European context. I understand from the Prime Minister that we are getting another letter on the implementation by Secretary of State Mansveld of the Energy Agreement and on the judge's ruling in the Urgenda case. However, we are still left with the fact that, as is estimated in the draft resolution, there is hardly any reduction in CO emissions after 2020. We'll be at around 20%, and we'll still be at 2030. This is unacceptable, especially since we committed ourselves at European level to reducing 40%. Surely the Prime Minister will not think that the other Member States should solve the remaining 20%? Governing is forward-looking. That is why we now want to encourage the Prime Minister to really start taking additional measures to ensure that the reduction continues beyond 2020. The President shall: Mr Strike, Mr De Graaf, Mr Koffeman, Mr Meijer, Mr Kuiper, Mr Ten Hoeve and Mr Nagel proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that, according to the 2015 National Energy Exploratory, the CO reduction is virtually stalled after 2020 and does not exceed 21% by 2030;]] [[Considering that a 40% reduction was agreed in the European Union in 2030;]] [[calls on the Government to provide additional measures to achieve further CO reduction beyond 2020 and to report on this in the Energy Report,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-G]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u335	Both motions, if adopted and implemented, will certainly help the Netherlands to make the Presidency a success in Europe. I wish the Prime Minister and the whole cabinet every success.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u336	Mr. Chairman. My group thanks the government and in particular the Prime Minister for the answers and the way in which the debate has been conducted. The issue of refugees was, of course, an important one. We appreciate the tone and commitment of the cabinet on this issue. It is not a simple issue, it leads to social unrest. At the same time, we taste that the cabinet shows compassion and show that we care about what is happening in other parts of the world, the suffering that is there. Our Constitution demands that of us. Through the Constitution, we take on an assignment to work for international security and justice. I recall a word from Martin Luther King, who once said "injustice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere." That's why we care. We appreciate that the cabinet does, although there are still many questions to answer. One of the questions that remains to be answered concerns the financing of asylum influx. I have just had a brief debate with the Prime Minister. The Court of Auditors has noted that a multiannual structural solution is needed for the first year care, which is currently financed from the ODA funds. But a future appeal to that ODA budget is actually not clear from the answers. Will the Cabinet come to the Navy note with a multiannual structural solution based on the best forecasts? If so, what does it look like? We've been talking a little bit about the level of defense spending. I have here the motion that was adopted here in this Chamber on 10 December 2013 asking the government to indicate how the Netherlands can fit in with its budgetary policy to the level of expenditure appropriate to its own security strategy and agreed international commitments. We are pleased with the trend break that has come. We hear the Minister of Defence regularly on the radio and in the media say that efforts will be stepped up. But you only have a trend break if the trend can be clearly indicated towards the future. If it is now said 'we are doing what we can and we are looking at when we can do something', that trend break might come under pressure, and we regret that. I shall be supporting a motion by Mr Schalk, which is our motion as far as I am concerned. That motion is about one- and two-earers. She goes on to discuss the vision of the participatory society, with which we really need to enable people to be there for others in our society. An interesting bycatch of this day that has not yet been mentioned is Mr De Graaf of D66's proposal to see how legislation is implemented. He sees that as an assignment to ourselves to look at it. I support that proposal. I also support Mr Kox's proposal to consider and perhaps conduct a parliamentary inquiry into the state of our rule of law in response to the comments made today. The concern that has been expressed is also ours.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u337	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Prime Minister for answering our questions, and in particular for reminding him that lucky seekers are boat refugees of all times by using the Malaysian word "mataglap." Dutch lucky seekers at sea have sought their happiness in all directions and mostly in the financial sense. They have established themselves in Suriname, Brazil, New Guinea, Africa, America and Indonesia. Our greed has not rarely led the native population to insanity, to blind rage. Our prosperity has been greatly fed by it and we have built up a debt of honour with it. We will have to help with the recovery in the regions, where we have partly built up our prosperity. I would therefore like to table a motion to ensure that the development budget is not further undressed in favour of the reception of refugees. The President shall: Mr Koffeman, Mr Schalk, Mr Teunissen, Mr Strik, Mr Kox, Mr Köhler, Mr Nagel and Mr Ten Hoeve proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the reception of refugees also poses major challenges for the Netherlands;]] [[Whereas aid and reception in the region of origin can remove the breeding ground for new flows of refugees;]] [[calls on the Government not to use funds from the development cooperation budget for the reception of refugees in the Netherlands, under the responsibility of aid and reception facilities in the region of origin,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-H]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u338	In addition, we want to prevent the interests of the weakest from going against the law of the strongest, especially in the case of TTIP and CETA. Last Saturday many thousands of Dutch demonstrated against TTIP and CETA, the mysterious nature of the negotiations and the fact that what is known indicates a very low degree of transparency. Dutch democratic decision-making can be overruled, even our Dutch legal system. That's why I'm filing the next motion. The President shall: Mr Koffeman, Mr Teunissen, Mr Kox, Mr Köhler, Mr Nagel, Mr Ruers, Mr Wezel, Mr Meijer and Mr Van Apeldoorn proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the European Commission is negotiating with the United States on a free trade agreement (TTIP) and a treaty (CETA) between the EU and Canada is in the process,]] [[Whereas:]] [[the control and policy space of Dutch governments can be negatively affected by TTIP and CETA;]] [[TTIP and CETA may have harmful effects on the environment, public health, animal welfare, privacy, labour rights and developing countries;]] [[TTIP creates a regulatory cooperation body, in which new and existing regulations, including at a decentralised level, can be reviewed and rejected by a non-democratically appointed committee;]] [[entrepreneurs in the Netherlands and Europe may suffer from increased competition due to these "free trade agreements";]] [[Considering that:]] [[the policy freedom of the Dutch authorities should not be restricted by trade agreements with the US or Canada;]] [[free trade agreements should not be instruments for relaxing or even abolishing European, national, regional or municipal legislation;]] [[any dispute settlement clause (ISDS) between investors and public authorities that withdraws from the national legal system is opposed in principle;]] [[only harmonisation between the EU and the US or Canada to the highest environmental, animal welfare, human rights and labour rights standards should be negotiable;]] [[invites the Government, in Brussels, to deliver the concern of the First Chamber on CETA and TTIP,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-I]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u339	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Prime Minister very much for answering the questions. He had a beautiful metaphor at the beginning about the pulse of society. In the course of the debate, I noticed that the blood pressure was getting a little bit up here and there. I have two comments to make. My first comment concerns defence, particularly with regard to the multiannual perspective and the follow-up steps mentioned by the Prime Minister: first international development and then financial opportunities. I'm gonna give him some thought to reconsidering that order. My second comment concerns the single earner and the two earner. It has been discussed many times and more or less commitments have already been made on several occasions. Once again, it has been said that it is being looked at favourably. In fact, I think there is a need for a little more, because at the moment a earner is actually being limited in their freedom of choice and in the care of the family. The motion I wish to table shows that the need for this is shared more widely than only with the SGP and the Christian Union. The President shall: Mr Schalk, Mr Kuiper, Mr Nagel, Mr Koffeman, Mr Kox, Mr Brinkman, Mr Faber-van de Klashorst, Mr Ten Hoeve and Mr Diederik van Dijk proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, in the case of an equal household income, earners pay up to five times more tax than two-earners;]] [[Considering that this could seriously impede the personal freedom of choice of citizens, but also the provision of family care;]] [[calls on the Government to come forward with proposals to reduce the substantial differences and to inform the Court of Justice about them,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-J]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u340	Finally. I was just talking about high blood pressure. In my first General Political Reviews, I also noted that this Chamber showed that the heartbeat of democracy can cause the pulse to return to normal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u341	Mr. Chairman. 50PLUS also thanked the Prime Minister for his reply. We missed one answer. I have given an overview showing that unemployment among older people is lower in other countries than in the Netherlands. I have mentioned a number of countries: the United States, Belgium, France, Spain, Sweden, Italy, Germany and so on. Unemployment is 25% throughout the EU and 42% in the Netherlands. I have heard the Prime Minister talk about matters that might improve that. He did that with restrained persuasion. However, I did not hear him explain why we are dealing with these figures in this way. We have seen that the elderly have fallen seriously behind in recent years by not indexing. The AOW is increased by a few euros at most, while all kinds of things such as the own risk, the care premium, the rent etc. go up. We have seen that there is now a reduction in the burden with an increase in purchasing power of structurally 2.5% for workers and only 0.2% for pensioners in 2016. We do not believe that this is a proportionate share, nor is it a uniform purchasing power development, which the government claims to represent. We consider that older people have shared in the acid of burden increase and are therefore entitled to a proportional proportion of the acid. This is why 50PLUS calls on the government, co-signed by CDA, SP, PVV, ChristenUnion, Party for Animals and OSF, by means of a motion. The President shall: Mr Nagel, Mr Ten Hoeve, Mr Koffeman, Mr Brinkman, Mr Kuiper, Mr Kox, Mr Faber-van de Klashorst and Mr Van Rooijen proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the reduction of charges of EUR 5 billion leads to an increase in purchasing power of 2.5% for employed persons and only 0.2% for pensioners in 2016, which makes pensioners not share proportionally in the reduction of charges of EUR 5 billion;]] [[whereas this does not refer to the "equal purchasing power development" which the Cabinet claims to represent;]] [[also considering that older people have shared in "the acid" of burden increase and are now entitled to a proportional share of "the sweet";]] [[calls on the government to ensure equal and fiscal equity for pensioners in a structural tax reduction,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-K]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u342	May I put another question to Mr Nagel?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u343	Yeah, you can. Could you please come to the speaker's seat, Mr Nagel? Mrs Barth would like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u344	We have a good tradition of reflection, especially here in this Chamber. If we table motions with a financial demand, we will also provide cover for them. So I ask Mr Nagel where he wants to get the money to do this. I don't think that's in the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u345	First of all, we ask the government to look into this. It's a wish that lives wide. I had hoped that he would also live with the Labour Party. If the government does not come up with proposals, we have good hope that the Chamber will make proposals to this effect, for example when dealing with the Tax Plan. Apparently, the government didn't know these feelings. We wanted to inform her of this and give her the opportunity to come forward with the necessary proposals in future treatments.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u346	Mr Nagel's answer is a little too easy for me. The cabinet has allocated 900 million to ensure that the purchasing power of older people and beneficiaries is above zero this year. After all, the prognosis was even worse. If Mr Nagel says that it has to go to the 2.5% which is also allocated to workers, then you are, I think, at least because I am not very good at calculating the 2.5 billion in structural terms. Where does Mr Nagel get that money?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u347	I just formulated an answer. That's all I want to say right now. Mrs Barth's party used to stand up for the people who were at the bottom and who were left behind. I would like her not only to raise objections, but also to make proposals to support these people. We have missed that in recent years. This was also noticeable in the opinion polls. I'd love to see that other Labour Party again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u348	This is reflected in the 900 million earmarked to raise the purchasing power of older people and benefit recipients above zero. That's not easy. In doing so, we as Labour Party do what is possible, but once again, if you impose financial demands on the cabinet, you must also indicate where the money should come from. That fits with careful governance and a careful debate. In my opinion, making empty promises to people is only really punished at the real poll, at the hallway to the ballot box.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u349	We appeal to the cabinet. I told you how we see that trajectory. That's all I want to say right now. I hope that Mrs Barth will let her sense of justice speak and support our motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u350	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Prime Minister for his comprehensive reply. I feel very well served with that too. I think he only made one real mistake, namely in the discussion about Van Oldenbarnevelt. The man here on the fountain is not Willem IV, but Willem II, Count of Holland, Roman king, that is king of Germany. He was killed against the West Frisians. I can't help it either. It is a good thing to continue thinking about the amount of gas produced. You have to. We have not yet reached the end there. The situation in Limburg is fundamentally different, because it has been there so many years since mining took place. I believe that the investigation referred to by the Prime Minister is absolutely essential. It is necessary to determine the risks, but the rest is that mining damage is mining damage. There is no reason to treat Limburg mining damage differently from mining damage in Groningen. In view of the financial construction of a new fund, I can imagine that it will initially be chosen to compensate only distressing cases, but in the long term mining damage will be mining damage. My final point concerns the position of Omrop Fryslân. The Prime Minister did not want to comment too clearly on my suggestion that we should at least speak explicitly with the province about the position and embedding of this broadcaster. We do not see any problems financially. The funding from the Empire of special projects continues. There's nothing wrong with it. It is not by any means impossible for this to happen in the province, which I am expressly stating here, but there is a need to talk about how to embed this channel in the total order with its special assignment. That's not certain in advance. This must be discussed with the province. Since the Prime Minister did not want to make any commitments on this point, I shall table a motion on this point, in order to put this aspect to the fore. I am aware that a motion of this kind has been adopted in the House of Representatives. It would be nice if this Chamber could do the same, but perhaps the Prime Minister will say immediately that he will respond to the suggestion. The President shall: Mr Ten Hoeve, Mr Kox, Mr Kuiper, Mr Nagel, Mr Koffeman and Mr Brinkman proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that major changes are being prepared with regard to the organisation of regional broadcasters;]] [[Whereas the special position of the Frisian public service broadcaster gives rise to separate consideration of its place in the new system;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with the Province of Fryslân, to find appropriate arrangements for the organizational embedding of this broadcaster as a whole of public service broadcasting and for funding to enable a full and wide range of programmes to be made available in the Frisian language,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-L]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u351	We have thus arrived at the second term of the government. I can imagine that she would like to consider the motions for resolutions for a few minutes. I'm suspending the meeting for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u352	Madam President. I have to tell Mr Ten Hoeve that it is of course true that it was Willem II and not Willem IV. I do not agree with Mr Kox, because, to my best knowledge, I have once again checked that Van Oldenbarnevelt has never been in the service of the States General. He served as a state attorney in the service of the States of Holland. I see Mr Kox shaking a little less with conviction than before. We're gonna go over that together for a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u353	The member Knapen wrote a book about it. He should know.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u354	Sure, but he's keeping his mouth shut. I even read that book. Who's right, Mr. Knapen? I understand that I'm right. Thank you! Very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u355	There is another additional argument, which is very nice to be confirmed by Mr Knapen, namely that placing the image on the Binnenhof would permanently confront him with the execution site. Maybe we should think about if that's fancy. That might be an argument. Mr Brinkman made a comment on the windmills at sea. There was probably a misunderstanding. I've had it checked out on the official record. If there was anything else, I would like to hear it in the House of Representatives a discussion with the CDA to look at the additional costs of offshore windmills at location IJmuiden Ver, based on information from the business community, from windmill builders such as Siemens and Van Oord. They would be much less than the extra cost of 1.2 billion imposed by Minister of Economic Affairs. This concerns the additional costs compared to the locations closer to the coast. Camp then undertook to have it investigated in the Chamber. He asked the companies Siemens and Van Oord to support the claim of the CDA. The companies were found not to be able to provide this justification. A letter was sent to the Chamber about that. When it comes to the same issue, that was the intention of my answer. If it's another matter, then I suggest I go back and find out again and come back to it later.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u356	Minister Kamp has agreed to inform us. I didn't see that letter, but it could be me. I'll check that out. If that were necessary, we would discuss it. I'm not ruling out that there's a need for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u357	Okay. A letter would have been sent to the Chamber on this matter by now. I'll check to see if a copy of that has been sent to the First Chamber. If not, I will still arrange for this to be done so that we can discuss it further in the House of First Instance. Is that a promise?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u358	On the basis of that further letter, regardless of whether it is there or is still there, there could be another discussion on the final location choice. That's a promise. The Minister is, of course, entitled to his opinion, but there is still a debate to be held.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u359	The latter is not known to me. That's probably where the misunderstanding is. In any case, we ensure that a copy of the letter from Kamp to the Lower House goes to the Upper Chamber. We would remind the Minister of Economic Affairs of the fact that he is not present this evening because of other obligations that there is a feeling here that he would have promised, and I assume that this is the case, that there could still be talk in the First Chamber about the choice of location. We're gonna figure it all out to make sure things go smoothly. As far as the financial review framework is concerned, I might add, in addition to what Mr Brinkman said about it, that it is fortunate that the interest rate is now so low. As a result, pension funds cannot index immediately, but do not have to value them by reducing deficits and thereby reducing them. That is, in itself, a positive side effect. Mr De Graaf spoke about the issue of the RTL election debate. There was a situation in which statements were made in the context of an election campaign, party meetings and longer-term reflections. In addition, an opinion was requested. That is why I believe, as I have said before, that there is no conflict with the unity of government policy, even in response to questions from the House of Representatives. It was an opinion, which was also expressed in an election debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u360	I realise that this debate did not just start today. Nor is it about what you said as party leader of the VVD during an election debate. I really think that's distinguishable. But you repeated, also in the Lower House, in your position as Prime Minister, that you maintained your position, that it was a personal view. You repeated it there. That's my problem. As Prime Minister, you cannot detach yourself from your person and say that these are two different things. The Prime Minister should be the last to do so because otherwise he will not be able to appeal to any minister or secretary of state if he does.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u361	This is a view, an opinion expressed in an election debate. It's hard for me to withdraw that opinion again. Indeed, I had that opinion during the Second Chamber debate and I still have that opinion. The Christian Union asked a question about the multiannual structural solution for the costs of asylum reception, also in relation to the budget for development aid. At present, the inflow estimates are updated. For the year 2015, the cabinet wants to increase the inflow estimate to 58.000. This was reported to the House of Representatives today in a letter from Secretary of State Dijkhoff. In accordance with the Slob motion, the Chamber will be informed of the budgetary impact of the asylum influx in 2015 and 2016. I can promise. That is just as much what I have looked at: it is both 2015 and 2016. So we are also working on the planning that we normally have in the contacts with the Chamber where budgetary adjustments are concerned. Mr Schalk of the Political Reformed Party asked me whether, as far as defence is concerned, both matters can stand side by side. That's what I meant. We need to look at both the need and the financial adaptability. There is no subjugation of one or the other. These are two parallel considerations which can lead together to additional expenditure. 50PLUS asked about long-term unemployment among older people. In the first term, I have tried to explain this by outlining that at the moment the elderly unemployment rate in the Netherlands is 7.1% versus 8.2% in the euro area. The share of the long-term unemployed among older people is 58.8% for the Netherlands versus 64.5% for the euro area. The figures are for 2014 and come from Eurostat. Older people are there between 50 and 75 years old. I have also outlined, in the first place, what measures the cabinet is taking in addition to the main thrust of this, namely increasing economic growth. The OSF asked a question about Omrop Fryslân and tabled a motion. I shall return to that point in the debate on that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u362	I asked another question about the budget for social assistance made available to municipalities for refugees. Does the Prime Minister wish to consider whether the budget should be increased in view of the alarming report by the UNG which states that there are deficits in this area?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u363	We are looking at the whole of the higher asylum influx in the Autumn note and will take into account the different budgets. The Brinkman c.s. motion. letter B refers to the budget of Security and Justice. My suggestion is to hold that motion because, as I said earlier, we are very aware of the thoughts that live in this Chamber, which are also very in line with the concerns about the risks that live in the House of Representatives. That is why we are working on an analysis of these risks, as I outlined in the first term. We would also like to talk about this for the budgetary treatment of V and J in the House of Representatives. There'll be risk analysis for a while. The various legislative proposals that are still pending will be taken into account. It seems to me that it is best to hold the motion until that analysis has been carried out and then to see whether the conclusions drawn by the cabinet on this basis can be supported in this Chamber. If Mr Brinkman does not wish to hold his motion, I can only advise against the motion, also because it is not covered. Having said that, I think I have sufficiently stressed that we have listened very carefully and understood what messages the First Chamber intends to give us in this context. Again, I think it would be wiser if the motion were held until we had the chance to make that analysis. Then I come to the motion on letter C. In it is asked for a new reaction to the ibo zzp. We've just sent a response, and we're going to discuss it. I think it is wise to deal with that reaction that has been sent to the Chamber before we send another reaction. I would therefore advise against this motion. The motion on letter D is about a very fundamental renovation of the Ministry of Security and Justice. We believe, on the contrary, that bringing these tasks to Security and Justice has improved cooperation in the criminal justice chain. Existing barriers have disappeared. We are talking here about one of the biggest reorganisations in the recent history of the government. It concerns an organisation of 60,000 to 65,000 people. We therefore have no intention of changing this classification again. This is not provided for in the coalition agreement either. For all these reasons, I would advise against the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u364	I'd like to clear up a misunderstanding with the Prime Minister. We are not asking him to dismantle the National Police into 25 regional corps. We only ask that the police management responsibility be transferred from the Minister of Security and Justice to the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations. That's not a major, years of surgery.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u365	That's true in itself. The underlying reorganisation of the National Police has, of course, been very fundamental. The previous cabinet and this cabinet have chosen to organise it as it is now organised, also in order to approach the various tasks of the police for the public administration and the Public Prosecutor's Office in a sensible way. We think there is a lot of added value in that. That's why we'd like to keep it that way. For all these reasons, I would like to discourage the motion. I agree with Mr De Graaf that the scale of the reorganisation of the National Police is in itself an additional argument, but certainly not a cardinal argument, because it would only have to do indirectly with such a relocation. Again, on balance, I advise against the motion. Then I come to the motion for a resolution on letter E by Mrs Barth and Mr Hermans. I think we can leave this to the Chamber. The government is asked to examine the intensification of support to combat unemployment among immigrants and parents, and to discuss this with social partners. The cabinet is sympathetic to that. Of course, we are already doing a lot in this area, but I think it is good to see what else we can do. May I summarize the shortcut in this way? The motion on letter F asks for the European resettlement rule. I have already said something about this in the first place, namely that we can see it very well in the context of an integrated approach, but not in isolation. We shall therefore look very closely at the Commission's proposals. This now isolated decision would not fit in with government policy. That's why I don't recommend the motion. In the motion on letter G, the government is asked for additional measures. It is in itself a policy support, because if, after the current measures, the cabinet no longer has and does not pursue a supplementary policy, then of course Mrs Strik is right. But that is not how climate and energy policy works. Energy efficiency requirements for industry, mobility and the built environment will need to be further strengthened beyond 2020. The cabinet in the Netherlands and in a European context further elaborates this. So that's what we're working on. Moving technological developments also make this possible. This will make renewable energy generation cheaper in the future. This also makes it possible to generate more renewable energy, especially if technological development solves the bottlenecks in the storage of electricity. To this end, the government encourages energy technology development. We do so at national level, but also at European level. The Energy Report will identify the challenges of future energy policy by the end of 2015. It will serve as input for a social dialogue on future energy policy. At the end of 2016, this will lead to a policy paper setting out the longer-term orientations of energy policy. In other words, I see the motion as supporting policy. The motion on letter H calls on the government to stop using funds from the development aid budget. I have outlined earlier that we agree with the existing OECD system. It is also used in most other countries. In addition, the motion doesn't cover. This leads to a problem of coverage in the non-attribution of the costs of first year care to ODA. So far, the costs have been met within the ODA funds, without having to break previous commitments. That's what I'm gonna add. However, it is about the system. We want to hold on to that. That's why I'd like to dissuade the motion. I come to Mr Koffeman's motion on letter I. We know that there are social concerns about TTIP and the treaty with Canada. At the same time, there are also important benefits to be gained from economic and political cooperation with these countries. The Cabinet, and in particular Minister Ploumen for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation, is committed to a treaty that offers benefits while respecting our high environmental and social standards. One example is that the European Commission has adopted the Dutch dispute resolution proposals, the "Investor-State Dispute Settlement" problem. We believe that this motion is unbalanced on too many points and does not reflect the improvements that have been made. That's why I'd like to dissuade the motion. Moreover, I have the impression that some of Mr Koffeman's concerns are already reflected in government policy. As the motion is now before us, I must discourage her. I come to Mr Schalk's motion on letter J on a wager. May I suggest that he hold the motion until after the examination of the Tax Plan in the Lower House? It will take place in the coming weeks. We have already said that we are open to suggestions to reduce the difference. So my suggestion is to hold the motion until the Tax Plan is dealt with. As far as the motion on letter K of 50PLUS is concerned, I would also like to propose that it be retained until the Tax Plan is dealt with. Otherwise, I must discourage her, because this motion gives the impression of shifting money from the 5 billion package to the elderly. That would really conflict with our thoughts. However, we can easily imagine that the position of older people will be taken into account in the examination of the Tax Plan in the Lower House. I therefore propose to Mr Nagel to hold this motion until the Tax Plan has been dealt with there. Mr Ten Hoeve's motion on letter L on Omrop Fryslân is partly supportive of policy. At the same time, I cannot make any commitments about the additional funding for Omrop Fryslân. There's no cover for it either. State Secretary Dekker has today promised the Lower House to enter into consultation with all regional broadcasters. Omrop Fryslân will also be involved. May I suggest that the motion be held until it is more clear about that discussion? Otherwise, I must discourage her, because this motion also calls for funding for which there is currently no cover. However, perhaps the problems will be solved in the discussions that are about to take place. I think I have answered all the motions and all the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-7.u366	I suggest we suspend for a while. Everyone gets a package with all the motions, including their letters, otherwise it's gonna be chaos when we vote. That package should be in any minute. Then we can proceed to the votes.
