ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u1	Mr. Chairman. The message has attracted a lot of attention worldwide over the last few days. Amsterdam, that's the news, wants to run window brothels. Of course, this summary is a little too short for the feasibility study that is now to take place. However, it is not for nothing that such a message raises many questions internationally, but also indignation. Putting women in the window as merchandise, isn't that beneath all human dignity? The question remains as to whether it is not extremely unwise for a government to actively cooperate and become an accessory to window prostitution. How does the Minister of Security and Justice view this? What is his advice to the municipal administration and what is his involvement in this? I have three questions. 1. Is the world of prostitution, despite all appearances, not deeply interwoven with crime, coercion and exploitation? Isn't that why it's not wise to keep a great distance? 2. If the point of view is that prostitution is a normal and legal business activity, then why this unusually far-reaching involvement? We don't do that to the V&Ds and the Blockers of this world, do we? Is this allowed from a legal point of view? 3. Is this cooperation of a municipality not contrary to the independent supervisory role that the municipality must also play in preventing abuses? Isn't it a risky conflict of interest? I would like to hear a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u2	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to Mr Van der Staaij for his three questions. I have to say, having taken note of the feasibility study that has been brought out, that there is no exploitation by the municipality of Amsterdam of a sex company. They actually want the sex workers to be the operator themselves. In itself, that could be a good thing. The answer to the first question is that it is precisely in that situation that it is right that the government should also interfere in dealing with trafficking in human beings, combat sexual exploitation and also tackle abuses in prostitution, such as poor hygiene and financial exploitation. The second question is whether a far-reaching involvement can be legal, where you can ask the question what is far-reaching. On the basis of what I have heard, I have not been able to observe that something is happening that is contrary to the law. Furthermore, what is happening there is of course also for the assessment of the city council of Amsterdam. Mr Van der Staaij's third question, like his other two, is a good one. Of course, there must be no cross-links. The responsibility of the municipality in the supervision of the prostitution business must be guaranteed. It has become clear to me from the intentions of the Amsterdam City Council that this will continue to be the case, because under no circumstances will one become the owner of a sex company.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u3	Let's talk about the facts first. The Minister says that it is only a question of investigating a sex workers' own-run prostitution company, but I have understood very clearly from the reports that it is also being considered whether the municipality itself could become owner to rent out the premises to the sex workers. That is precisely what the media have been paying a great deal of attention to. That is a further step forward. How does the Minister view this? Doesn't the commercial motive play a role in the background? Those properties were purchased in the past. If they were set up for another destination, it would also cost money. However, can this financial argument be decisive? I would also like to hear the Minister further about the extent to which the whole sector is still not so intertwined with practices of coercion and exploitation that it is also a matter for a municipality and for the government to be involved exclusively in the supervisory role and not by actively cooperating. I would like to receive a further response from the Minister on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u4	The first concerns the municipality's intention to carry out a feasibility study, but never to become an operator itself. That's important. One is looking for a third party to rent out the buildings concerned to the company, the foundation where the sex workers will operate their business. I have not had any consultation with the Amsterdam administration, but it has become to me that we could deal with what we do not want, but that we do not exclude, namely that people buy the premises themselves and then rent them out to the new operator. It could be. In any case, there is no legal objection to this. First of all, I would like to hear what Amsterdam is going to do, because there is an investigation going on. Secondly, as far as I am concerned, there is only the objective of combating abuses in prostitution and trafficking in human beings. These are objectives that we are pursuing. The third point is to stay at a large distance enough to fulfil your supervisory role. Therefore, in my opinion, the government would not be able to participate as an operator of the company. What is at issue here is, in my view, sufficient to fulfil the supervisory role.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u5	Finally. The minister says that for him the border is that the government should not actively participate in the exploitation. What does this active participation look like that he thinks is over the border? We can now end up in all kinds of legal hair-clubbing that could be on such a subject, but I would like to go back to what is happening. Amsterdam wanted to tackle the abuses. Many question, from a human dignity point of view, the very form of prostitution, the display of women while the rest could enjoy themselves, gamble and use the services. In reality, behind those windows was a world of great beauty and sorrow and misery. We just shouldn't want to do that with each other. Shouldn't that course be deployed much more firmly?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u6	I thank Mr Van der Staaij. This is a section with a history in Amsterdam's policy. In this connection, I refer to the Wallen project. One of its objectives is to prevent the exploitation of prostitution and trafficking in human beings. That's what we're here for. We have often discussed that it is also very important to give the sex workers their place and strengthen their position. That's important. As long as the objectives are set and the municipal administration is at a sufficient distance to fulfil its supervisory and licensing role, these are the frameworks within which we will ultimately check, in so far as there is a role there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u7	We have been drawing on the law that had to be passed for a very long time to really tackle the abuses. In the end, that law did not pass through the Upper Chamber as we had hoped. However, there are a number of issues that the Minister would take care of. This bill has been in the Ministry's hands all along. When are we going to ensure that we can improve the law on prostitution, that age is raised and that there is better supervision so that we can actually protect these women?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u8	We are awaiting the zero measurement by the WODC of the law regulation prostitution and expect it very soon. Furthermore, I must give the Chamber answers to the novella that lies with the Chamber. We must also now move that is absolutely my objective, the law through this Chamber and the First Chamber. There's some difference of opinion about the novelle between the spokesmen across the street and this side. That is a point I have to pay attention to, because the objective must be for the bill to pass through the Second and First Chambers. If Mrs Van Toorenburg can help, I am extremely grateful to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u9	This is, of course, an Amsterdam matter, especially of the city council and the mayor of Amsterdam. D66 considers it an excellent initiative. I think it is one of the measures to prevent the interweaving of forced prostitution and voluntary prostitution. Can the Minister, when this starts, ask the National Rapporteur how this is going to work out? I am asking this because we have seen that Utrecht also intended to come up with something like this and that it does not come off the ground. I think other municipalities can learn from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u10	I am happy to admit that I will. I've been in touch with the mayor of Amsterdam. I told him I'd wait and see what he comes up with and I wouldn't be negative about it. That is also clear in my speech. There are a number of conditions. We will involve the national rapporteur, who is always praised by us.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u11	It's a remarkable message. I have read that the municipality of Amsterdam has said: if there is no good operator, we will have to take our own role. The Minister says that this cannot be the case. This is the very first thing that needs to be clarified. Can the municipality itself become an operator, yes or no? If this is the direction the municipality of Amsterdam is looking for, I suppose there is no decent operator. If the municipality itself has to board, what does that say about the current prostitution business?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u12	There is a misunderstanding with Mr Segers. As far as I understand it so far, the municipality of Amsterdam will not be an operator. The municipality is looking for a third party, which can rent out buildings to the operator, a foundation formed by the sex workers. If this fails, the municipality of Amsterdam is considering acquiring and renting the premises to the new operator. The last variant is not the variant that the city of Amsterdam seeks either.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u13	Following on from what Mr Berndsen of D66 said, I believe that the feasibility study is also a signal for any other municipalities that run counter to the policy in their municipality. Does the Minister know if there are more such questions in municipalities? For example, we have seen Utrecht with the Zandpad and the problems with its exploitation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u14	No, but of course everyone is dealing with the issue of trafficking in human beings and the exploitation of prostitutes. This is a form of this in the city of Amsterdam, which is ahead of it in terms of its approach. The problem of the Zandpad is known to me, but the city of Utrecht has not reported to me in this respect. I shall come back to what Mrs Berndsen said. The national rapporteur could play a role in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-2.u15	Thank you for your answers. You can stay a while for the next question.
