ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-3.u1	Five members have applied for this short reopening. Because it's a reopening, it's only a deadline. I call Mr Van Veen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. 25 June last, on behalf of my group, I expressed concern about the development of the decentralisation fund for visual art and design. During the cultural debate, I indicated that both the dumping into the Municipal Fund and the expiry of the matching conditions, and therefore the verification of legality, are not desirable for my party. We would lose the overview and control, and it is very doubtful whether this is in the interest of the cultural sector in the Netherlands. In September, I repeated this and indicated that I intended to regulate this in the 2016 budget by means of the Court's budgetary right. I note that this announcement did not lead to sufficient guarantees towards the Community fund. In fact, the September circular talks about a continuation of the decentralisation benefit for the period 2017-2020, without matching conditions. In the Minister's letter of 1 December, the Minister reiterated her line. My party is sensitive to the Minister's argument that the municipal budget has been set for 2017, no more than that. I have been an alderman myself and understand how difficult it can be to change a budget following a December circular. That is why, together with Mr Monasch, I will now table a motion calling on the government to postpone the 2016 plans until 2017 so that all parties, municipalities and funds can focus on the 2017 budget and the opportunities offered by this new distribution of money. A good listener and reader had already found that much of this money will eventually end up in the municipality. I shall therefore table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Minister of Education, Culture and Science wrote through the September Circular 2015 that she wanted to drop the accountability and matching of the decentralisation benefit for visual art and education for the G36;]] [[Considers that resources should benefit the cultural sector, with a greater focus on matching cultural resources, better regional distribution and other spending for festivals, start-ups and the protection of freedom of expression;]] [[Whereas municipalities have currently agreed budgets, arrangements and legal obligations for the year 2016;]] [[Calls on the Government to transfer the decentralisation allowance for the period 2017-2020 to the cultural budget and to deploy it annually for the following purposes:]] [[a. reserve EUR 1 million to ensure freedom of expression and expression and avoid self-censorship by addressing debate centres, exhibition rooms and other cultural institutions through an arrangement in the event of increased security and operating costs;]] [[b. EUR 1 million for the Performing Arts Fund or through regulation to stimulate new initiatives based on leaving them on their own feet;]] [[c. EUR 0.5 million for a guarantee fund for festivals not supported by the BIS and threatened in their continuity by non-influenceable factors such as weather;]] [[d. provide EUR 2 million for the Performing Arts Fund to support festivals, with an eye to attracting new audiences and a good geographical distribution;]] [[e. EUR 0.5 million for a contribution fund to be set up, in addition to the territoriality scheme, which can cover insurance premiums for all museums, including private ones;]] [[f. EUR 0.5 million for the strengthening of BIS institutions which claim funds for the function of other opera offerings;]] [[g. EUR 0.5 million to strengthen the activities of post-academic institutions covered by the BIS;]] [[h. 0.5 million euros to stimulate international performances by the top companies such as the symphony orchestras, based on art. 3,10 (2) and 3,19 (2) are designated from the BIS scheme;]] [[i. to provide 7 million for visual arts and design, subject to a matching, to be spent through an existing cultural fund where the G36 is exclusively entitled to EUR 5.5 million of funds and an amount of EUR 1.5 million for which all municipalities may apply to the Culture Fund,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Veen and Mr Monasch. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-VIII-112]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-3.u3	Does this mean that the two amendments will be withdrawn?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-3.u4	There are many more: the PvdA and the VVD will withdraw all their amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-3.u5	Mr Van Veen started his story by saying that he had concerns about spending and matching. All the answers that have been received so far have shown convincingly that the resources for culture are being spent and matched. I therefore believe that all the concerns at this point have been removed. I therefore absolutely do not understand where the idea is coming from to continue and simply to say that we are postponing it for a year. I don't understand any of that. Can Mr Van Veen give us one real argument?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-3.u6	Last Monday I asked Mr Grashoff a number of questions on the use of the funds from the decentralisation fund. I came to the conclusion that he didn't really have an idea of exactly what the money was spent on, because he passed it on to the minister. If Mr Grashoff looks into the use of the decentralisation fund in the near future, he will come to the conclusion that there is absolute freedom for municipalities to spend this money as they wish. The risk is that, in a number of years' time, we will decide to pay it as a general reserve in the Community Fund in accordance with the rules. That's exactly what the VVD doesn't want. We want to know where the money is going, and so should Mr Grashoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-3.u7	I have to say that Mr Van Veen is based on a theoretical reality that does not exist. Nor is there any reason to assume that that reality will occur in this way. Eventually he only does it with the thought that if he doesn't care about it anymore it doesn't exist anymore. That is a total distrust of democratic local control. Those funds are currently being spent in the way we want them to be. There is no reason to assume anything else for the 2017-2020 cultural planning period. Mr Van Veen is hiding behind a theoretical reality. The real reality is that money is being taken away from culture to channel it back into culture on a detour elsewhere, with a lot of damage to local cultural infrastructure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-3.u8	I didn't hear a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-3.u9	I don't hear a question either. I think we have had this discussion four times now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-3.u10	Mr. Chairman. It is a windy autumn and I think it is also windy in the heads of a number of colleagues. We would love to have a money tree in the garden, where we could shake off the last banknotes. Some of that paper money could then be swept with love to the art sector also appreciated by the CDA. But unfortunately, that tree isn't here. The coalition didn't have him either, but she couldn't leave the broom in the barn. She wiped, without taking proper account of the consequences, a whole pile of money from the Gemeentefonds towards OCW. The criticism from the legislative consultation does not need to be repeated here. My colleague Van Toorenburg would have liked to have started the culture spokespersonship she wished for in a different, less critical way. Unfortunately, I had to deliver the spokesmanship because it was no longer compatible with asylum and migration. The coalition didn't think this through. That is clear from the fact that she has asked for a reopening and that this motion has now been tabled. The minister was crystal clear in her letter. Very neatly but clearly she has indicated why the amendments are a bad idea. The most shocking thing is that yesterday my colleague asked why the VVD wants to reopen the debate. There has been a great deal of unrest among many people in the sector and in the municipalities. But no, we had to wait. I also have at home those guys walking around with a smile pulling a door close because they're working on their surprise. You're gonna have to wait and see what comes out. Today it is clear: a motion. I would very much like to hear the Minister's opinion on whether this is a solution to the problem the VVD and the PvdA are seeing. There's something else I need to get off my chest. I've been an alderman for a long time. In the municipality of Purmerend I combined the aldermanship care and culture. I can guarantee that this means a division of the scarcity. After all the reforms and cuts that have been introduced since 1 January this year, it has become no less gratuitous. We debated this yesterday at an AO on the WMO. A letter has come from all the aldermen, telling them how narrow the margins within which they have to operate are. Against this background, the proposal to withdraw money from the Municipal Fund fell extremely raw on the roof of the CDA group. In itself, I welcome the withdrawal of the amendments, which is today's good news, but I think that the motion now before us will ultimately maintain the problems in a different way. The city leaders, who are already faced with financial problems, must carry out and manage everything we think of here. I say 'everything we think of here', not saying that everything always has the support of the CDA. The reforms in the Wmo do not have our support. But it's tough.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-3.u11	I have a brief question for the CDA representative. I just said I was an alderman, too. I realize how difficult it is to change something so late. Can Mrs Keijzer remember how much the contribution from the decentralisation fund was for her municipality?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-3.u12	No. I would really be very handsome if I could report that accurately here on the euro. I have no idea, but it might be interesting to ask Mr Van Veen why he wants to know. I'm sure there's something to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-3.u13	The motion that we are tabling enables the municipality of Purmerend to make use of cultural funds which it is currently unable to obtain. The decentralisation benefit only goes to the G36. I do not think Purmerend belongs to the municipality where I was alderman, nor do I, so it would have added value if the CDA were to support our motion so that more municipalities could benefit from the decentralisation allowance and invest in culture.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-3.u14	I need to think if Purmerend isn't part of the G36. I don't think Purmerend is one of them. However, I would like to say something else. When I was alderman there, I always had a very good collaboration and good discussions with Zaanstand and also Amsterdam. I have always said this, even when we talked about the redistribution of social security funds, for example, that you cannot simply take a hold in the cash of other municipalities. I simply do not think that is correct, especially if it happens in the short term and certainly not if the consequences for the other municipalities are not considered. One thing I know for sure: the inhabitants of the municipality of Purmerend, the municipality of Edam-Volendam, where I now live, and the municipality of Waterland, where I have lived for a very long time and have also been active in administration, make use of the facilities in the municipalities around them. I find it really unimaginable that the PvdA and VVD groups are taking a hold in the cash, without having thought about the consequences, and simply putting this proposal here in this way. I said it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-3.u15	I heard. Mr Bosma has waived his speaking time. I call Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-3.u16	Mr. Chairman. The coalition parties wanted to play for sinterklaas last Monday with other people's money. Money from the municipalities is to be understood. At the time, the Minister even called that inappropriate. Now we are faced with a motion, whereas last Monday's amendments were withdrawn. We're about to hear what the Minister thinks about this. The tension is rising! One thing is clear to my party: the festivals must not be the victims of this magic with money. That's why I'm filing my own motion, trying to save the festivals. The motion reads as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas performing arts festivals attract a wide and diverse audience and make an essential contribution to the accessibility of art and culture;]] [[noting that of the additional €2,600,000 needed for festivals there is no more than €180,000 left for an important group of theatre, dance and music festivals;]] [[calls on the government to add 2.4 million euros to the Podium Arts Fund, with coverage in the 4.2 million euros reserved for policy research (art. 14),]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-VIII-113]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-3.u17	This actually sounds like an amendment, namely that you get money from a part of the budget that you transfer to another part of the budget. Then there is always the question as to whether that part, that policy research, is not already legally mandatory, as we call it. I am very curious about what the Minister says about this, but I would advise the SP Group if it does something like this, which is like an amendment, to put it down in the form of an amendment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-3.u18	Mrs Keijzer has a point, so I will certainly consider converting it into an amendment before the vote, especially if it increases the chance that the CDA will support it. I did a good job picking out that cover. This amounts to 4.2 million for policy research, of which 40% has so far been earmarked. 60% hasn't been spent yet. That is exactly EUR 2.4 million, which I would like to devote to the festivals. I have another motion on archaeology. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas municipalities do not always have the means to carefully manage unique archaeological finds;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with the profession, to propose financial instruments to cover the additional costs associated with the excavation, scientific development and presentation of archaeological finds of (international) allure,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-VIII-114]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-3.u19	This is a new motion, while my colleague, Mr Van Raak, on Monday the motion in part No. 105. It's being revoked.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-3.u20	Since the motion-Van Raak c.s. (, No ) has been withdrawn, is no longer a matter of procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-3.u21	Mr. Chairman. What a show! With a coalition like that, you don't need an opposition as a minister anymore, do you? Or perhaps even extra, to try to prevent very large goats from being shot here. It's a weird story. According to a very logical course of events cultural money has been decentralised to municipalities. Once again, this has been explained very well by the Minister after she has done so before. That money is spent on culture, for which it was intended. The municipalities are the largest investor in culture, about 65% of all funding for culture comes from the municipalities. That's a bigger part than the Empire, so we really shouldn't be talking about matching. The amendment is now on the table on the basis of the argument that it will no longer be possible for 2015, but the authors are actually persisting in an analysis that is no longer based on anything by turning that amendment into a motion, which should be on the agenda from 2017. It is about money belonging to municipalities, which is important for a fine-meshed cultural infrastructure in the cities where it is now used, especially for visual arts and related people. That should stay on. I'd like to ask the Minister one question. In the letter which she sent on behalf of the Minister for the Interior, she indicated that the decentralisation funds had also remained decentralisation funds on many requests and had not been transferred to the lump sum of the Community Fund. My group is also in favour of this. It is not entirely clear whether the Minister also intends to continue to include these funds separately as decentralisation funds. There has been a request to make that permanent. Does the Minister intend to do so? That is what I would like to see done. In doing so, we will keep an eye on the size of these funds and their use, and we will be able to follow perfectly through the monitor that has been agreed whether this money is actually being sucked up or whether it actually ends up where it was intended to go. I have faith in that, but it's good to keep an eye on that. So is the Minister prepared to keep these funds visible as decentralisation funds on a permanent basis, including from 2017 to 2026?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-3.u22	Mr. Chairman. We have received many positive reactions, from festival directors and from other institutions that said: money is finally going there. That is also one of the reasons for this proposal. We also say that this amount should remain there for the municipalities. That's why it needs to be matched. Then we say that there should also be room for new audiences, for example for festivals and many other areas. That is why we are also proposing a comprehensive package of measures in the cultural sector. So it is not just that we are happy with part of the spending. Some also go to other parts of the culture sector. I know that aldermen may be better heard here, but there are also many people from cultural institutions who have e-mailed us to say how happy they are with this and also to ask us to continue with it in particular. It is good to have all the sounds here, in the Chamber of the People's Assembly, heard. In any case, it is a good thing that culture is being debated again. Otherwise it would have been boring last Monday. I think that we would have only talked about Mr Pechtold's proposal to extend the Open Monument Day for a year. It is a good thing that we have this debate in full focus. I am also pleased that other parties themselves support the ideas, although they do not fully agree with the coverage. 500 million went to the Education budget at the request of one party. Maybe he's got some good suggestions. There is another party that has said that there must be more money for security. I know a fellow party member in Rome who says: double that with culture, because then we also know what we are protecting. Those negotiations are still going on, so who knows, parties may still have bright ideas. The tax plan still needs to be supported. I would say: if the thinking started with this, I am only happy with that. We are concerned that we want the cultural money to reach new audiences and not just the existing distribution. Others should also be given a chance. The municipalities can then continue with what they are doing: excellent work, but matched, so that the money remains at the disposal of the cultural sector. Finally, I have a motion in addition to Mr Van Veen's motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas threats, fears or intimidation can greatly increase operating costs and security costs for visitors and collections;]] [[Whereas threats, fear or intimidation should never be a reason for organisers to refrain from exhibitions and lectures;]] [[noting that there are many examples of such threats with resulting additional operating costs for organisers who even result in cancellation of the exhibition or lecture;]] [[points out that self-censorship cannot be accepted as a direct consequence of threats in the Netherlands;]] [[calls on the government to record reports of possible self-censorship and to seek appropriate solutions in consultation with the organisation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Monasch and Mr Van Veen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-VIII-115]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-3.u23	Mr. Chairman. We had an interesting legislative consultation on culture. It turned out to me that everyone involved is actually trying to solve the problems in the cultural sector. The Culture Council indicated that it beeps and creaks and that the reserves are gone. The Minister has made an extreme effort to find finances for the coming years for a lot of things that could often lead to great success with relatively small amounts, if you look at the state government. Let me also say that I appreciate the coalition parties' attempt to find more money. On Monday, however, we were confronted with a cover that we thought: yes, but that is actually cultural money from the municipality to cultural money from the municipality, but in a different way. That's a cardigan pocket story that seems to solve something, but basically we don't do anything. Having said that, I think it is important that the coalition's amendments have now been withdrawn. I actually agree with those who criticize the motion. It does more or less the same thing, but it has a weaker shape. Then we'll have to wait until next year. I would also like to try, I think, to give the Minister the opportunity to look very carefully with opposition and coalition, who actually have the same wishes, to see if alternative cover can be found. This should then be done before the votes on these motions and amendments. I do hope that it will succeed. If it were to succeed, I think that we have settled the most important issue that we have all fought for, namely: relatively small amounts of money towards the cultural sector, which, as far as I am concerned, could get that momentum again after years. I'm willing to work on that. The next meeting was requested by me. This is the subject of the Community Fund, but now that the coalition's amendments that would be attacking it have been withdrawn, as far as I am concerned, that consultation is no longer necessary. Those amendments are gone. I don't know if the minister is already on his way, but at least he can be ordered off. I conclude by expressing the hope that we will be able to examine with some spokesmen immediately whether there is another alternative to which opposition and coalition can unite.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-3.u24	Thank you for your contribution. I take it there is no objection to the withdrawal of the next debate, now that there is no basis for it. I inform the Chamber that a revised schedule will be circulated. The time limit for the Chamber has come to an end, and that means that I can give the Minister the floor for her response.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-3.u25	Mr. Chairman. We had a very wide-ranging exchange of views on all the issues raised in this debate last Monday. I therefore confine myself to the motions. I would like to thank Mr Van Veen and Mr Monasch for withdrawing the amendments. This is an important contribution to creating some peace in both the cultural and local landscapes. I note that instead of the amendments there is a motion on item No. 911 has been submitted. The cover has not changed in principle in that motion. However, another time is mentioned, namely 2017 instead of 2016. On Monday, I raised as an objection that municipalities could be robbed by this, because they have already completed their budgets. That part of my objections is removed by that changed time. I also note that there are small shifts in the direction of spending, because where 1 million went first to the indemnity regime, that is now 0.5 million and where the first went to the visual coast via the G36 and matching 6.5 million, that is now 7 million. That, too, is an improvement in my view, because I indicated earlier that I found the system of indemnity complicated. This also applies to the 0.5 million in the motion, but at least a little more money goes to the municipalities compared to Monday. That is a good thing, but my assessment of the coverage of the motion, of getting money out of decentralised payments, remains. Since that part of my objections remains standing, I must advise against the motion. In the motion in part No. 113 by Mr Van Dijk, the government is invited to add 2.4 million euros to the Podium Arts Fund, which provides cover for policy research funds. I advise against this motion. It sounds very sympathetic to transfer money for research to festivals, because everyone thinks of course: it will be paper and that's why it's not so important. However, all evaluations, impact studies, studies on the impact of austerity and labour market position studies are funded from this budget. If the Chamber chooses to shift that money to this purpose, I cannot tell the Chamber anything, but I really cannot tell the Chamber anything more about the state of affairs in the cultural sector. To all the questions I will have to say: sorry, I have no idea what is happening, because there are no such means anymore. So I'm not suggesting this motion. In the motion in part No. 114 Mr Van Dijk asks the government to come up with a proposal for financing instruments for archaeology. I consider this motion to be superfluous, because this consultation is already under way. I also promised a letter on this matter on Monday. On Monday I also indicated that there are a number of additional financial instruments. Since I consider this motion unnecessary, I advise against her. I now come to the Monasch/Van Veen motion in part No. 115. They ask the government to include reports of possible self-censorship and to seek appropriate solutions in consultation with the organisation. In the motion in part No. 115 by Mr Monasch and Mr Van Veen, the government is invited to record reports of possible self-censorship and to seek appropriate solutions in consultation with the organisation. I'll leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. Last Monday, we discussed this issue in detail, and I also see the urgency of it. I could include these conversations in the series of conversations I have with organisations, and I could monitor them, thanks, among other things, to the research we are doing. I have heard Mr Monasch and Mr Pechtold talk about alternative cover. Of course, I'm always interested in that. If anything comes up, I'll see if it's a responsible cover. As always, I'm at your disposal, if there's any reason. For now, this is my assessment of the motions that have been tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-3.u26	I have an additional comment on the motion I tabled with Mr Van Veen on the protection of freedom of expression and expression. In the WHO, the Minister indicated that he would do the same with the Ministry of the Interior. The motion should be read in such a way that it is involved in further plans that also exist in the Home Affairs area about the protection that, for example, is needed at local level. As far as I am concerned, while we are trying to broaden the motion, it can also be read in the context indicated by the Minister in the WHO last Monday.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-3.u27	Clear. Do I understand that Mr Monasch may not only mean BZK, but also V and J? I think we all agreed that this should not lead to regular security costs being paid out of the culture budget. That was also stated in one of the amendments. It is really about whether there are reasons why organisations have additional programming costs or would apply self-censorship, so to speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-3.u28	We have left it in the motion because we believe it should be done. If, on the basis of this motion, the Minister comes forward with other solutions in cooperation with other departments, then we should be grateful. I believe there was consensus on this in the WHO last Monday.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-3.u29	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-3.u30	I would like to comment on the Minister's last words on the search for alternative cover. I note that all parties are looking for solutions for institutions in difficulty, especially festivals. I also note that the Minister is still not happy with the new motion by the coalition parties. She says her objections stand and she advises against the motion. I've been looking for alternative coverage, in this case in the policy investigation. I would like to point out that the entire budget for policy research is not going to go away. I have made a genuine attempt to solve this problem in a different way. Now it's up to the Chamber to give its verdict.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-3.u31	I am curious whether the amount indicated as cover is legally mandatory. If that is not the case, then there is room and you can consider whether you support it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-3.u32	I don't know that by heart; I'm just looking at my officials. Is the amount legally required? It is politically compulsory in certain respects. This applies not only to this Chamber, but also to the other side. I also had debates there on the consequences of the cuts. I have promised that we will continue to monitor them very comprehensively, for example with the overview Culture in Beeld. It is legally mandatory and otherwise undesirable, if at the same time you want me to inform you about changes in the cultural sector and its effects. I heard Mr Van Dijk ask a number of questions about this last Monday. Sorry, Mr. Van Raak, his doppelganger.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-3.u33	...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-3.u34	No, no. I thought there was a very clear question in addition to Mr Van Dijk's. He has already called in, but he has not even received an answer from the Minister on the point he has made here. Or did he?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-3.u35	It is indeed about my motion. I just want to say, also to Mrs Keijzer, that I checked it out. 40% of that 4.2 million has not been spent...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-3.u36	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. No, Mr Van Dijk. You may argue with each other, but not via the microphone. Mrs Keijzer has another question for the Minister. If you do not have a question for the Minister, I shall give the floor to Mrs Keijzer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-3.u37	Whether it is politically compulsory is a matter of choosing; that is what we are talking about. I am just looking for the answer to the question as to whether Article 14, policy research, is fully legally mandatory and whether there will be a fair claim of liability if we decide here to have it done elsewhere, as contracts have been concluded. From claims in themselves, I never get very restless, but what if they're justified?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-3.u38	Your question is clear. Since we are going to vote on the budget today, I think it is wise that I should suspend for a moment to give the Minister the opportunity to answer that question clearly and properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-3.u39	I appreciate that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-3.u40	I give the floor to the Minister to continue her reply. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-3.u41	Mr. Chairman. I just needed to check this out. For 2016, an amount of 4.2 million is reserved for policy research, evaluation and so on. 50% of these are legally required. The budget has a percentage of 40 million, but that was the state of play in August. Meanwhile, of course, the work continues and 50 million is mandatory. Then, for example, it is also about the...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-3.u42	50%
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-3.u43	50%. Sorry. 50%. Thank you, thank you. This includes research into savings and economic impacts in the cultural sector, including culture in the picture. That is what is going on, so we have already turned it off. 50% is therefore not compulsory: 2.1 million. If I had to spend it in another way in accordance with Mr Van Dijk's motion, I would have no room to do any evaluation or monitor in addition to the obligations. This would mean something about the relationship between supply and decline, between what we finance from the BIS and the funds and what local authorities finance. As a result, we would no longer have the data to better coordinate stages and companies, an important theme.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... This would seriously impede my consultation with the local authorities, which we are talking about all the time. What couldn't be done now is an evaluation of the Gift Law. I spoke to Mr Pechtold about this last Monday. I would therefore no longer know what we can do to improve it. The same applies to a study on entrepreneurship, which I heard Mr Van Veen talk about last Monday. That is a political choice, it is possible, but I think it is very undesirable, because I attach not only to the continuity of festivals and other activities but also to careful policies, which have sufficient support in crucial areas. That's what I need these resources for.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-3.u44	Good idea of you to suspend for a while, Mr. Chairman. Because now we have seen together that no less than 50% of this EUR 4.2 million is available. That is the most important political fact that we have here. That it hurts, I get it. But the motion of the coalition parties also hurts the municipalities. Politics is making choices, the Minister quite rightly said. It is now up to the parties to make a wise choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-3.u45	That choice is yours. But let me make it clear that I reject the motion because Members regularly ask me questions about the effects of policies and the consequences of the cuts that were made at the time. How can we ensure that we raise more private funds for the cultural sector? What about the labour market position of artists? These are all crucial, very legitimate questions. I therefore advise against this motion. If she is accepted, I will be unable to answer many of these questions in the near future. That does not seem to me to be good for policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-3.u46	But the festivals will be saved.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-3.u47	Then there are some resources for 2016. Whether the festivals are saved is, of course, the question in the longer term. 'Cause this is about a year from now. That is different from Mr Van Veen's and Mr Monasch's proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-3.u48	This afternoon we are voting on the amendments, the motions and the budget. For the sake of clarity, I have to say that all the amendments tabled by the VVD and the Labour Party have been withdrawn.
