ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-7.u1	At the end of last year, Rijkswaterstaat announced an assignment for the maintenance of the waterways in the river Maas-Rijndelta. It was an important work, a big job also with a long duration, at least five years, on which it could be registered. But what was the surprise when we saw the assignment? It wasn't just about the maintenance and the blurring of the waterways. I have a random list of what was asked: keeping the bridgekeeper's house clean, the basement and the technical space, the greening along the waterways and keeping the roads snow and smoothness-free. The maintenance of the bike path was also requested. If we add it together, it sounds almost too weird for words, but it really is an invitation to tender that comes from the Empire, from Rijkswaterstaat. How can an SME, e.g. a dredging company, get a fair chance if one has to be a cleaner and gardener alongside a dredging company? More importantly, there are requirements that an SME cannot meet at all, e.g. a comparable project of at least EUR 5.3 million. I do not know very quickly an SME that can meet these kinds of requirements. We passed a law here two years ago, the Procurement Act, banning such practices, the clustering of activities. How is it possible that Rijkswaterstaat has launched such a tender? Does the Minister recognize with us that this is an inappropriate practice? More importantly, what does he intend to do to prevent this from happening again in the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-7.u2	Mr. Chairman. I don't know if I disagree with Mrs. Schouten. It happens all the time that I don't disagree with her. It has the impression that this tender did not go well. They and I know that the Procurement Act provides that contracting authorities are not required to combine matters unnecessarily in principle and that requirements are proportionate. Mrs Schouten also knows that individual procurement is the responsibility of the services themselves. I need to make sure the whole process goes well. If anyone, Mrs Schouten or any other person, believes that a tender is not going well, then there may be complaints to the contracting authority itself, to the Commission of Procurement Experts or to the courts. In this case, the contracting authority itself has been complained. That was, as Mrs Schouten says, Rijkswaterstaat. Rijkswaterstaat suspended the tender procedure after receipt of the complaint. An investigation was then initiated. In the meantime, Rijkswaterstaat has considered that there was insufficient justification for the merger of the contract. The Minister of I and M has informed me that the tender will take place again. So that procedure is now starting again. I can answer the questions raised by Mrs Schouten, among others, once the whole complaint procedure, including the precise implementation of a new tender, has been completed. Then I can sketch the whole picture. Mrs Schouten suggests that what we think has happened and what we are about to do is not right. As a result of this incident, she also asked in a more general sense what else I am going to do about it. The effects of the provision on the merging of contracts and the implementation of the motivation obligations in the 2012 Procurement Act are an important part of the evaluation of that law. We will inform the Chamber about our findings as a result of the evaluation by this summer at the latest.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-7.u3	It is good that it is included in the evaluation, but it is more important that we do not contract this kind of work at all in this way. The Minister himself states that the Ministry of I and M has acknowledged that this has to be done in a different way, that this has not gone well. It is strange that a contractor himself should say to the client: sorry, but I do not think you follow the law and it is not true what you are doing. If you're dependent on a client for another job, I imagine you're reluctant to do that. Since the Ministry of I and M has acknowledged that it is not true and that it needs to be re-contracted, can the Minister acknowledge that this practice is evidently happening now and that it is not going well? But, more importantly, how is this minister going to ensure that things are not clustered in this way and not in all the other tasks that the Empire is going to contract later on, as we understood? If we ask other organisations to spend well, then the Empire should be the first to set a good example. Is the Minister prepared to check that the next tender is good and not clustered? And does he want to make an effort to achieve that at all other times?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-7.u4	Mrs Schouten understood that this invitation to tender would be re-established. I just told her that's gonna happen. Because things can go wrong in these cases, we have established this possibility of complaint. Whoever has a complaint can choose: either you go to the client and give him a chance to do better, or you go to the committee that has been set up specifically for it, or you go to court. In this case, the client has been chosen. He took it well, suspended the procedure, reviewed the case and concluded that the complaint was justified. So now it's done differently. We must learn from this incident, especially as a government. I agree with Mrs Schouten that, if there is a law, we should look first and foremost at ourselves for its implementation. It is not wrong at all if we are creating an exemplary effect. Both Rijkswaterstaat and I and M now want to organise the tender better with knowledge of the conclusions they had to draw from the complaint. I am confident that they will see to that. I am responsible for the functioning of the law in a broad sense. I will ensure that this element receives the attention it deserves in the evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-7.u5	It is a good thing that the Minister is involved in the evaluation, but for the last time I call on him to keep an eye on what tenders are being issued and which is not unnecessarily clustered, so that SMEs in the Netherlands are given one of the biggest employers in this type of job.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-7.u6	I would like to say to Mrs Schouten that, following this incident, I will see if there is any reason to state in a broad sense what the purpose of the law is and how it is supposed to comply with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-7.u7	Thank you for your answers and thanks for coming to the Chamber. We'll see you a few more times today.
