ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u1	I would like to welcome all those present in the Chamber and in the public gallery, in particular the Minister for Economic Affairs. Eight speakers have spoken for this debate. They themselves have filled in the amount of speaking time they want. I would like to propose that we consider whether we can proceed with three interruptions in the first period, including a follow-up question. If you do it very quickly, we can always be a little more flexible at a later date, but it is easier to propose this rather than to tighten up later. So this is how we're gonna try. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Smaling of the SP. Fifteen minutes, he thinks he's gonna need it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u2	"Fifteen minutes" always sounds shorter than "fifteen minutes." Mr. Chairman. The question today is: are we going to go with the current or row against the current? The bill is actually called STROOM, which is, of course, a nice abbreviation for the matter covered by the law. Energy is an essential part of our existence. It is very proportional to our prosperity, but unfortunately it is just as proportional to the damage to the environment, whether it is about extracting ancient raw materials or releasing products that are released when converting potential energy into human-use energy. Through all the debates of recent times, whether they were about the gas extraction in Groningen and all the misery it has caused and continues to cause, the placement of windmills on land near habitation, the Urgenda statement that calls on the State to make more work of reducing CO emissions, or Shell's pleasing decision to turn its back on the polar region, it is "never a dull moment." I wonder if the Minister had foreseen this when he took on the EZ portfolio. Where there are threats, there are opportunities. That's very management jargon, but it's usually true. The law that is before us today also offers it, even if it is a somewhat technical cleaning up of two laws that we already had. I therefore believe that it makes sense to see this law first in the context of a rapidly changing energy sector. Because of everything I mentioned earlier, there is a constant state of readiness around energy, in which the picture quickly changes and needs adjustment. This makes sticking to the energy agreement difficult because the moving insight is moving fast. Look at the discussion about biomass with the Academy, for example. Perhaps the switch to electric driving will be stimulated by the Volkswagen scandal and the fact that there will be many second-hand electric leasing cars on the market from 2017. That might suddenly offer a lot of opportunities for people with a smaller wallet. The financing of everything also has our permanent attention in this Chamber but also outside it. The pace is so high that you can ask yourself whether we can keep up with the pace in society with legislation and regulations here. How does the Minister see this? Does the bill offer sufficient opportunities to overcome small and larger obstacles, especially at the decentralised level, as the bill still breathes the atmosphere of the old fossil system? But the Minister may disagree with that. I mean, for example, microgrids, neighborhood batteries and the setting up of experimental zones. Can all this be done in the eyes of the Minister if we adopt this law? Has the whole question of netting been adequately dealt with in this bill? Is there, for example, a transitional regime for systems to be implemented by 2020? There are, for example, corporations that may now be sitting on their hands because they consider the loss of netting to be too high a risk. In addition, for high-rise construction, you might need to include a specific netting arrangement. Is this law the appropriate instrument for this, or is it still going to be? Can we see that later? In other words, has the outcome of the consultation been looked at in such a way that this law, as it were, acts as an intermediate sprint in order to keep up with the pace of society? If not, how are we supposed to do that some other time? One of the most essential characteristics of the energy transition is that there is a general feeling that three things must happen. It needs to be less, more sustainable and more efficient. Does the Minister still share this classification and also the order? The word "supply security" is very common, but it is always very strongly linked to the supply side and much less to the demand side, a reduction in energy demand. Professor Kornelis Blok recently said in his inaugural address that the demand side needs more attention. He sees it as a child. There is also a behavior and a technology side to the story. Has the Minister had this division in mind when writing this bill? Does he think it's a meaningful distinction? What could be gained by behavior on the one hand and technology on the other hand if you use that distinction usefully? In the recently published report "Rich without CO," the Environment Council talks about four functionalities in the energy domain: low temperature heat, high temperature heat, transport and mobility and light and appliances. The first must be the fastest success in the Rli's view. According to the Rli, the first functionality involves the challenges of social innovations, innovations in processes and learning by doing, as they call it. This includes, for example, space heating, tap water in the built environment, greenhouse horticulture, but also a part of the industry such as the food and pleasure industries that are not in the high temperature segment. It'll be 800 petajoule together. Does the Minister consider that this legislative proposal will facilitate this category sufficiently in order to be able to take the steps that, according to the Rli, can be taken quickly? The Rli has made a very meaningful graph, in which you can see that some categories can speed up. A legal issue is that the Minister aims to implement many General Administrative Measures in this law, and without any backsliding. Why was this chosen and why was it chosen across the board? I think it makes sense not only for us but also for the First Chamber to be able to talk about this legislation when it is necessary. It requires longer-term thinking and a vision of the complexity of the entire energy system. If you put a lot of AMvBs in a law and then without a veil, it looks very defensive. Then you get a little out of ruling by decree. Moving forward can also be done with a tough parliament, as long as you have a good story. Good stories and collectible laws: that is difficult, especially for my group. The bill is needed to regulate TenneT's designation for the management of wind at sea. My group has said 'A' when it comes to the wind energy Act and would now like to say 'B'. We think the investment is strong, but see an increasing interest among financiers and good opportunities for the offshore wind industry in the Netherlands. Identifying TenneT is cost-effective. To what extent has the Minister been able to reassure the seaside resorts or provide compensation? Furthermore, I still have the agreement with the Minister that the increase of the SDE+ on the energy account will be taken into account in determining the purchasing power figures annually. Has he pointed this out to the Minister of Finance at this time of the year? Is that promise still valid? It remains a difficult point for my group. Without investment, you don't move, but without risk, you can't. The pain shouldn't end up with the people who can't carry it. But, now I come to the "but." I'd almost write it with four capitals. There is a "but" and not just a "but" to this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u3	Of course, I was waiting for that "but." The SP, like the PVV, opposes the division of Delta and Eneco. I assume that Mr Smaling has now arrived there. He has tabled an amendment, which we have also signed, to ensure that this split does not go through and that all these people, here in the gallery and outside the Square, do not lose their jobs. Now that the PvdA has been completely turned against last year, it seems that the amendment cannot count on its support and that the amendment does not have a majority in this Chamber. Is the SP prepared to vote against the STROOM Act if the amendment, which is against division, does not go ahead and ensure that all these people keep their jobs?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u4	I'd like to answer that. It would have been my last sentence, but I'd like to say it now. There is indeed an amendment. I would like to extend my thanks to Mrs Klever and to the groups of the CDA, the Christian Union, 50PLUS and GroenLinks, who have co-signed this amendment. With the rejection of this amendment, the bill is not acceptable to the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u5	The reason I am asking is that the situation in the Upper House is different from that in the Lower House. In view of the signatories to the amendment, this means that there is a majority in the First Chamber against division. This could mean that the First Chamber could stop the law and so prevent all these people in the public gallery and in the street from losing their jobs. Mr. Smaling and I have both been in the First Chamber. We know a little bit about it. Is Mr Smaling also prepared to speak to his colleagues across the street to ensure that this law and thus the division and loss of 1,800 jobs do not continue?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u6	I am very much of the responsibility of the two parts of the States-General. I don't really give advice to the First Parliamentary Group. Like Mrs Klever, I was a member of the First Chamber. We know that these people can make their own decisions. Let me just say that the Minister can count to 150 here. He can also count to 75. Mr. Chairman. The "but" is about continuing the division of Eneco and DELTA. I have taken good note of the ruling of the Supreme Court on this matter. It says that the Independent Network Management Act is not contrary to European law, but the ruling does not, of course, say anything about splitting energy companies that have not yet done so. We've been working on this subject for almost ten years. This has a great advantage: we can look back on how we thought at the time, what we thought was necessary then, at the fears we had that the networks would be drawn into commercial activities and the way the sector developed. There are now many suppliers in the energy market. Furthermore, we have seen a voluntary split and sale that has generated billions in one province and the other has not. Furthermore, there was the idea that splitting was necessary to keep the nets in public hands, which is and has remained the same. Ten years later, there's the next situation. Firstly, no company within the European Union has carried out a division along the most rabid route, namely that of the entire forced ownership division at the level of distribution system operators (DSOs), the regional network operators. Secondly, large companies in the Netherlands have a foreign parent company, and they all have networks. Thirdly, energy prices have not fallen below those in the countries where companies still have networks. Fourthly, the problem of the dreaded reduction in security of supply does not arise at all. Fifth, the watchdog function of the Authority Consumer & Markt (ACM) is well completed. The nets are safe and move within the legal frameworks. The director of RWE, Mr Terium, made an enforcement request to split Eneco and DELTA, but at the same time says that a strong energy company is a company with networks. That's talking with a double tongue. In other words, be happy, as I say to the Minister, that you have ten years of experience in this matter; learn from it and take decisions with the knowledge of the past ten years. By pushing the division of Eneco and DELTA through the current legislative proposal, the Minister is repairing something that we have seen over the past ten years that is not broken. There is already a lot of dynamism in the energy market. It is slowly becoming more sustainable and more decentralised. The big companies will have to tackle their business model, and they will. We will see if they all survive, but let them choose their own route in this already so turbulent domain. Acting now with two renowned Dutch companies and putting an estimated 1,500 to 2,000 jobs at risk is a completely incomprehensible route at the moment. The Minister really doesn't have a good story to tell. If he thinks he is, I'd like to hear it. It also distracts attention entirely from what we need to focus on, namely the Trias Energetica: less, more sustainable and more efficient. As I said earlier in the debate with Mrs Klever, I tabled an amendment with colleagues which we believe has been elegantly drafted and leans on the Doek c.s motion. which was filed in 2006 in the First Chamber. Minister Wijn then decided to embrace that motion, but after a cabinet change, Minister Van der Hoeven did not go through with it for reasons that are still dark to me. A threatening merger between Nuon and Essent or a purchase of a Belgian waste burner by DELTA are no reason to change such a decision altogether. With the knowledge of today, you must note that more choice was good for the consumer, but also developed differently from what was thought at the time. There were many more new providers and we didn't know much about decentralised possibilities at the time. A forced division at European level has not been implemented and has not brought any added value at national level. The European Commission is literally saying that it is disproportionate. Continuing the division would mean that the Minister knowingly saddled two leading companies with lower credit ratings, with the risk of acquisition by a foreign company with networks, with a new exodus of smart heads and commercial floors to the country of the parent company, with a fall in investment in renewable energy, especially at local level and with damage to our economy. Surely that can't be the job of a Minister of Economic Affairs? His 27 colleagues will really be laughing under the table at the next Energy Council if this bill is adopted in this way. It's completely self-destructive. I will conclude my speech. The amendment is widely supported and I call on both the Minister and the colleagues who have not signed up to it to take a favourable look at it. It does not call for a ban on division, which would also be contrary to the ruling of the Supreme Court, but it calls for division not to be imposed as long as the directives in question do not lead to division at the level of DSOs or to any new European legislation requiring them to do so elsewhere in the European Union. It's not foreseen. This is a very serious matter for the authors of the amendment. I would be very sorry if this bill were to come to an end, because it contains matters that need to be regulated and which the SP also believes is good that they should be dealt with. I'd like to hear the Minister's reaction first. However, if the amendment fails, as I said, the SP cannot accept the bill either.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u7	Mr. Chairman. The energy market is on the move and the energy of society is on the rise. The image of a power plant selling electricity to a household is actually becoming more and more obsolete. Houses become energy-neutral or even energy-supplying. People were first customers of an energy company and now they become members of an energy cooperative. That's the picture of the future. The number of solar panels and windmills is growing and companies that rely heavily on fossil energy have to write off on their power stations. Today's big question is how the government deals with these challenges. Does the government encourage this sustainable movement or does it only allow for initiatives? Is that room enough? The government can sometimes get in the way of the transition. The old legislation doesn't always fit anymore. Today we are discussing a bill that focuses on experiments. That is fine, but nevertheless the Christian Union would have liked to see fundamental choices in the shift towards clean energy and towards prosuming. This law is mainly based on central producers selling electricity to consumers. The Minister does not intend to make more fundamental choices until next legislative proposal. Why not now? Aren't we going to go after the facts again? Choices for sustainability are also reflected in choices in the network. The Minister has made proposals to experiment with new forms of energy infrastructure and balancing the grid. There are great opportunities there. We can avoid a lot of grid congestion. This also requires us to better anticipate new developments. In this connection, I refer to the storage of energy. If batteries are a serious solution for households and residential areas in a few years' time, this will save huge investments in the network. There is less need for grid increases when homes become energy-neutral. The increase in heat pumps and electric cars must also be very clever to cope with. However, grid increases are still the only means for network operators to solve the problems. The law now provides regulated space for network operators to deal with temporary tasks and experiments. The Christian Union supports this movement. I ask the Minister to start these experiments as soon as possible. Can he clarify this? What opportunities does he see in the temporary tasks for network operators to stimulate sustainable innovation and transition? In the experiments there would also be room for flexible electricity tariffs. What is the Minister's view of these experiments? We have often debated the Groningen gas in this Chamber. In the coming years, we must reduce our dependence on the Groningen gas. It is therefore good if residential areas, both the new building and the existing construction, are no longer automatically connected to the gas grid. How does the Minister see the role of network operators and municipalities in the reflection and co-decision on the interconnection of renewable energy, heat networks and residential areas? Think of the spatial integration of heat networks, where a link has to be made between industry, greenhouse horticulture and residential areas. I'd like to get a reaction to this. The Christian Union is a strong supporter of accelerating energy neutralisation of homes, buildings and residential areas. Undoubtedly, the concept of zero on the meter is known. That is a beautiful concept, which must be rolled out throughout the Netherlands. This concept can also be well supported by the experimental provision in the law. Does the Minister intend to use this law to extend "zero on the meter" further? The bill opts for a transparency obligation for green electricity. This obligation already exists through the so-called "guarantees of origin." But why should producers of clean energy prove the source of energy and not producers of grey energy? This means first of all an uneven playing field in the market. Secondly, the consumer cannot make a choice on the basis of all the information. In countries where there is 100% transparency, the switch to clean energy has also accelerated. Many people don't want a coal stream anymore, but they just don't know that they're taking it off unnoticed anyway. That has to change. I have therefore tabled an amendment to make the origin of all electricity, grey or green, transparent for the consumer. Of course, I expect a positive response from this liberal minister, who is in favour of a free and transparent market. I come to a point that I have raised for a long time in the Chamber: the wiring of the high-voltage lines. The Christian Union considers it important that high-voltage lines are built underground as much as possible. In international scientific research, there is evidence of an increased risk of leukaemia in children living under high voltage lines for a long time. This is still being investigated. However, the precautionary principle also applies to people living near high voltage lines, at least in the new situations. In these new situations, this precautionary principle is already taken into account in the construction of high-voltage lines. In existing situations, however, we do see very nasty things happening: people have to be bought out or the wiring is expensive. The cable operation will last a total of 15 years for 55 municipalities which still have high-voltage cables above their territory. The Minister intends to have municipalities pay 25% for the underground construction of these high-voltage grids, the so-called wiring. He calls that a "threshold contribution." Why is this threshold contribution needed anyway? Should municipalities be discouraged? Does it make sense to allow municipalities to pay so heavily for the renewal of rural infrastructure? I've already made a motion to ask you about the costs per city. They are still unclear, but the conclusion is that the costs per municipality can be considerable. The municipality of Veenendaal, for example, has its own contribution of 1.5 million euros per kilometre. Many, often smaller municipalities give the signal that this contribution will not enable them to switch the power lines. With that, the scheme will go beyond its purpose. The Christian Union has therefore tabled an amendment to reduce the contribution of municipalities to 5%. This will increase the distribution of costs between all households and companies in the Netherlands. Due to the national distribution, the impact on all users in the Netherlands is not so bad. I have another question about the wiring. The 220 kV and 380 kV lines are not being cabled, because they are currently too expensive. Houses under high voltage lines are being bought out. For example, Zaanstad and Molenwaard with a 380 kV connection above homes and apartments. This can be prevented by connecting these lines in the future. Of course, the best and most cost-effective solution must be chosen. Why didn't the Minister choose to embed this space in the law? Of course, other options must always be considered, such as a different type of mast with less radiation or the displacement of masts. Now I'm getting to the division law. This bill maintains the splitting up of integrated energy companies. About ten years ago, the Netherlands opted for ownership unbundling of Dutch energy companies without considering whether other European Member States would take this step. In the meantime we know that the Netherlands was not only at the forefront, but also that the Netherlands is still alone in this choice. As a result, Dutch companies had to split first for fair competition and then be sold to undivided companies that actually distort competition in the Netherlands. Was that supposed to happen now? If Eneco and DELTA are also in foreign hands, the vast majority of the Dutch market is in foreign hands. The Minister made it clear in the note on the report that the liberalisation of the energy market has positive effects, but he cannot make it clear that the compulsory unbundling has led to more or less competition. In short, a clear advantage cannot be demonstrated. The principles of the Independent Network Management Act were reliability and security of supply. These principles would also have been achieved without the division of ownership. Not the Dutch consumer, but the foreign investor benefits from the forced division, resulting in job losses. The Christian Union is for keeping the network in public hands. It doesn't take far-reaching forced division. Europe allows for several forms of division. The Minister chooses to continue with blinders on the forced split. According to the Minister, the choice of continuing the group ban was independent of whether other Member States would make this choice. The Christian Union has serious doubts about this. Why doesn't the Minister choose a pass on the spot? Why not wait and see what the other European Member States are doing? We should have done that ten years ago, and that is why my name is also included in Mr Smaling's amendment to the SP. The bill allows TenneT and the Gasunie to cross-participate with other European system operators. The Minister says that this can promote cross-border cooperation. He also wants to ensure that public interests are safeguarded, for example by first submitting a proposal for cross-participation to the Chamber. We must ask ourselves a few questions in this regard. Why is cross participation a public interest? Why do other forms of strategic cooperation fail? Why is an exchange of shares necessary in order to work well together? Why do we want public money to be leaked abroad through cross participation? I have not yet received a convincing answer to these questions. The Christian Union considers it undesirable that part of the control of essential public infrastructure should be transferred to foreign hands. This is fundamental change in the law of which I do not see the added value. An exchange of shares is not a condition and certainly not a guarantee of good cooperation between system operators. I would like a response from the Minister to that. I have seen that the PVV has tabled an amendment on this, and my group will support it. The possibility of charging a producer tariff for the costs of the network is deleted from the law. This rate is now at zero with the argument of international competition. I am also reluctant, for another reason, to apply an increase in the producer tariff. After all, it also puts our wind farms behind wind farms in neighbouring countries. However, you can ask the fundamental question whether the possibility should be removed from the law. Why should we not choose in the future to allow producers to pay part of their network increases? After all, they benefit from the network to export energy. Why should the consumer take full responsibility for this? The Christian Union will therefore vote in favour of GroenLinks' amendment to at least retain this possibility in the law. The timely construction of a net at sea is important. TenneT is therefore designated as a network operator at sea by this Act as from 1 January 2016. If the law is delayed, is there any delay in the development of the network at sea? An additional question is why the costs of the network at sea are paid through the SDE+. That is a subsidy scheme for renewable energy. Why choose a different regime than on land, where costs are socialised through network tariffs? If we reason like this, we might as well use the coal tax to build the power cables to the Eemshaven and the Maasvlakte. I would like to receive a response from the Minister. I'm coming to a closure. The Christian Union is in favour of a rapid transition to clean, sustainable energy. I expect the great transition not from this law but from society. I express the hope and expectation that this law will help society to accelerate that energy transition and that this law is not obstructive. That is what we are going to have to do, and we are going to have the debate on it with each other, and I look forward to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u8	Mr. Chairman. D66 considers it important for legislation to ensure that new, innovative ideas for renewable energy are put in place and that the infrastructure is future-proof. The energy market is in full swing. Not only demand, but also supply plays an increasingly important role in energy supply. For example, renewable energy sources such as sun and wind can be less easily switched on and off than a coal power plant. With the decentralised generation of energy, for example with solar panels, a new group of prosumers is emerging. This means that the hard distinction between producer and consumer is disappearing. This energy transition requires a robust infrastructure for gas and electricity, with more attention to alternatives and more room for flexibility. For future network management with major peaks and declines, it is therefore important for managers to be able to choose the most practical and efficient solution. For example, it can be much more efficient to ensure storage somewhere instead of weighing up the nets. I therefore welcome the Minister's remark that placing a battery in a neighbourhood is explicitly an option to complete the legal task. In my view, this is only about the decision to place that battery, because the supply of electricity cannot, of course, be part of the tasks. For the sake of clarity, I have a question for the Minister. Is it true that network operators are allowed to opt for storage as an alternative to network congestion, but that they are not allowed to take care of delivery? I read that network operators may invest in infrastructure but not in generation and delivery. That seems to me to be a clear choice, but I assume that it does not preclude them from generating their own green electricity for their own use, for their own business processes. Solar panels on the own company roof, that's got to be possible, right? I'd like to get a confirmation from the Minister. Then I will deal with the possibility of applying flexible rates. This has a direct impact on the costs of network management, as flexible transport charges allow the network operator to better respond to the actual price at the time. Power becomes more expensive at the peak moments of the day, when we all ask for that power at the same time, but cheaper in the valley moments. This can be an incentive in the market. Flexible transport rates can thus contribute to changing capacity demand and consumers can better respond to the price. My party is therefore pleased that the Minister is going to investigate the possibilities of more flexible tariffs. Is there anything else the Minister can say about that? What aspects does he take into account in the investigation? What's his schedule about? And what about the ongoing inquiry into the retail price of quarters? Because I think the Chamber asked for that investigation a while ago. Does the Minister expect to be able to include the results of the investigations in the new legislative amendment in 2017? What about the talks with industry? How is it involved in reducing demand at peak times? I was recently in Brussels as rapporteur for the Energy Union and spoke to a number of energy-intensive companies that indicated: include us, because we are happy to cooperate. My question to the Minister is: how does this law make it possible, how do we talk about it and what opportunities do the network companies have to talk to industry about it? As a result, they would not only receive a fee to upgrade an additional gas plant, but we would also consider how we can reward large industrial processes when this contributes to lower costs for our entire network. Can this only be done at national level or can it be done at regional level? I am curious to see the Minister's view on this point. The law allows for experiments for system operators or members, but the decision only deals with associations of owners and cooperatives. I was wondering whether the Minister also intends to develop the possibilities for experiments for system administrators in the decision. Then I come to the subject of "wind at sea." TenneT will roll out the network at sea and ensure that the wind farms are connected to the infrastructure. It is important that the network is located at sea when the wind farms are ready. Otherwise, we'll have power, but there's nowhere to go. Then the companies will lose out. It is logical that this is a hot issue for the companies. The Minister has chosen the following solution. The Network Manager must pay up to 10 million per year of the damage from its own account. The rest would be paid at the expense of the SDE+. When I look at the size of the necessary investments, I wonder whether this 10 million from the network manager is a sufficient incentive. I would like to hear from the Minister what the relationship is between the 10 million and the amounts per year we are talking about. My next question is in line with the point made by Mrs Dik-Faber: is it real to get the rest out of the SDE+? The minister has so far been sitting like a goat on oat chest in the use of the money from the SDE+. That was really only allowed to go to the generation of renewable energy. It should not be in energy saving, it should not be in innovation, it should really only be used to subsidise kWh. I would like a reflection from the Minister on whether it is real to pay out of this pot for delay. The political point of this debate is the division. This law provides that the networks are separate from the economic activities of supply. According to the Minister, these two must not take place in one company. This obligation has been challenged to the highest court. The judge does not say "you must split up," but "the State may enforce division on the basis of this law." What was the reason for the split again? The proposal of division was supported at the time by the Labour Party, the VVD, the CDA, GroenLinks and D66. The parties wanted to achieve some important goals, such as ensuring the independence of the network, guaranteeing quality and ensuring security of supply. A second objective was that of free access to the network and thus increased competition, a level playing field and lower tariffs. In doing so, the freedom of consumers to move from one supplier to another is very important. If you look at the current situation, you can see that in Rotterdam and Middelburg, for example, consumers can now benefit from lower rates. Consumers can switch to another energy supplier. At the core of free access and independence, questions continue to be raised, as I read in the Minister's response. The networks are the backbone of our energy supply. They are crucial to security of supply. Due to the high initial costs, they are a natural monopoly. That's why it's important that they're in public hands. We must be sure that, as a government, we ensure that the quality and stability of the networks can be guaranteed by ourselves at all times. In integrated network companies, economic risks of supply could be passed on to the network and choices on the network would be made on the basis of the interests of economic supply, the Minister states. Can he back this up? There are also doubts about equal access and equal competition, as I read in the replies to the report. On this point, too, I would ask the Minister to provide a basis. Splitting has always been a means and not an end in itself. It's a far-reaching tool, so before you wager it, you need to be sure that there are no less far-reaching options that allow you to achieve the same goal. Did the minister look at that? Or is splitting indeed the only option and, if so, how does it underpin it? Can the Minister explain why the current safeguards in the law are not sufficient? I will mention a number of them. There is a Decision on financial management that imposes requirements on the liquidity, solvency and equity of a network company. Book 2 of the Civil Code states that there should be no transfer of risks to the sister organisation of the commercial delivery organisation, but not to the sister. What is the difference according to the Minister? It also states that there should be no interference with the legal tasks. The commercial leg must therefore not interfere with the legal functions of the system operator. Furthermore, network management must remain in public hands, i.e. in the hands of municipalities and provinces. We have rightly included these safeguards in the legislation, but why does the Minister think that they are not enough and that we should use the means of division to achieve the goals that D66 fully supports?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u9	I hear the spokesperson of D66 firing questions at the minister about the split, but I am so curious about the position of D66 itself. Does D66 think we should push through that split, even if it costs 1,800 jobs? Or are these 1,800 jobs also so important for D66 that D66 is so important for the Smaling c.s amendment. will vote, which will ensure that the split will not be pushed through until all the other European countries do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u10	I just indicated that D66 fully supports the objectives of the division law. I have already said this in an earlier general discussion on this subject. I think it is a very heavy instrument and, moreover, we should not confuse the objectives of the division with the instrument. This means that we need to identify the best and most effective means of achieving the goal. Since you can certainly look at the effects of the drug you choose, I'll put these questions to the Minister. We really need to be very careful with such a heavy substance. Because people are concerned about their jobs, it is particularly important that we clarify why the Minister believes that this is the only means that can be used.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u11	Mrs Van Veldhoven talks about the goals of the split, but they are clear. What is also clear are the effects of the split: 1,800 men and women with families are going to lose their jobs! Does Mrs Van Veldhoven consider this an acceptable effect of the split? I ask because she now has the opportunity to say: "No, Minister, we do not agree with the split. We support Mr Smaling's amendment, because it ensures that those 1,800 people keep their jobs. At the moment, we think the effects are more important than the goals."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u12	If the government had to guarantee a job for everyone, we would have a lot more to create. Employment is a very important issue for D66. That is why we have also laid down a tax plan in the General Political Reviews containing 1.5 billion in shifts. This will create twice as many jobs as the cabinet, which is 70,000. Jobs are extremely important to us. We must always look at what is the most effective means of guaranteeing jobs. I understand, of course, that Mrs Klever is concerned about employment and that people are worried about their jobs. That is what we are doing, and that is why we want it to be handled as carefully as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u13	Then do something about it!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u14	There is another problem at the split-up than the jobs and objectives of the energy transition, namely the Borssele nuclear power plant. I look forward to D66's opinion on this. I can see from Mrs Van Tongeren's gestures that she has something about this further on in her text. I'll leave it at that. I'll be back with her later, if you want.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u15	Mr. Chairman. Splitting is a very heavy resource that you must use very carefully. You really have to be convinced that this means is necessary to achieve the goals. If you do it, you must also ensure very careful execution. I would like to ask the Minister a number of questions about this. If it is split, it must be done carefully. Will supply companies, for example, have sufficient time to strengthen their position and thereby achieve the chance of maintaining employment? Is the Minister talking to the shareholders to see what they think is necessary to achieve the first goal? How long should the transition period be? What ideas does the Minister have on the danger of unnecessary capital destruction? How does he prevent it? The example of the gas plants is known to everyone. How can we prevent capital destruction in the context of the transition to sustainable energy supply? I ask that because we all think that gas plants can respond more flexibly to sun and wind. I would also like to know from the Minister: this brings me to Mrs Van Tongeren, who is probably listening somewhere behind this Chamber right now, or he is going to make good arrangements for the vulnerable parts, such as the Borssele nuclear power plant. In short, if the Minister continues the division, will he take enough time and space for action to do so carefully? I come to a number of other points, but perhaps there is still a few questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u16	I can pack! Mr. Smaling.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u17	It is always interesting to listen to Mrs Van Veldhoven. We're treating this law now. In addition, it is unique that we can look back on the period up to about ten years ago. I see that as an advantage. If Mrs Van Veldhoven looks back on the whole process from 2005, as she has, as it turns out, done, is it not enough for her to be a little more firm on D66's position? Of some of the concerns that lived in 2005, you can now say that they were not justified or that they have been overcome by other legislation, which does not make it necessary to split up.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u18	An analysis was made when the division law was adopted. It was then concluded that splitting was necessary to achieve those goals. At that time, the split was made in a large part. Since then, there have been many developments in the electricity market, which, of course, are partly linked to the decision at the time to split up on a large number of points, a decision which has made access easier for all kinds of new parties. Given the situation that has arisen, you have to ask yourself whether this is still necessary for the last part in order to achieve the objectives of the division law, which we fully supported. The Minister says in his answers that this is the only means. Those answers alone are not enough for me. I would like a more detailed explanation of this. That is exactly why I am asking this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u19	While Mr Smaling is standing here, I would like to correct one point. The debate sometimes gives the impression that the division at regional level in relation to distribution networks was the result of European regulation and as if the Netherlands were the only country to carry it out as a kind of good boy in the classroom. Mr Smaling himself knows that this is not the case. The obligation to split was only about the TenneTs and the Gas Unions of this world. I have just mentioned the parties that have supported all of this. Mr Smaling's party was not one of them, but the CDA and GroenLinks did. At the time, these parties deliberately chose to apply this also to the distribution networks. They saw added value in that. However, it is not a sort of automation, resulting from European regulation, that this had to be done. At the time, we deliberately opted for a national head of European policy. That may also be an interesting case for the VVD. However, we must now ask ourselves whether it is still necessary in this way. Hence my questions. I'm sorry my answer was a little long.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u20	The latter is my point right away. In 2006, apart from the political differences, one could say that there was a shared fear that the wave of liberalisation that then went around the world would put commercial activities and networks in the way of each other and that we would have to do something about it. That is what we were going to do in Europe at the time. But now you see that the Netherlands is the only country that has implemented this in a forced way. The rest of it doesn't work. In this sense, the difference between now and then is so great that I would like to encourage Mrs Van Veldhoven to say that her position is now: we should not do this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u21	On this point outlined by Mr Smaling, it is important to be precise. As regards the separation between electricity production and the grid, Europe has only required us to implement it for the TenneTs and the Gas Unions of this world. Other countries have also taken steps in this regard. This was the result of the European agreement. Apart from the fact that Europe did not oblige us to do so, the Netherlands itself, with the support of a broad spectrum of parties, decided to go beyond what Europe wants, because it saw a number of reasons for doing so. So we cannot pass this on to the fact that the rest of Europe does not. At the time, the rest of Europe didn't either. We knew that when we decided to do it here. However, I think there is now a moment to ask whether or not we should take this last step. This is, after all, a major tool. However, I still support the targets. My point for the Minister is therefore: support your view that it is still necessary, because there are critical questions to be asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u22	I am curious to know what the D66 group thinks. In 2006, the CDA already asked very critical questions, such as: are we not being swallowed up by the big energy giants in Europe; what exactly is the situation, are we not the best little boy in the class; are we not doing much more than Europe is actually asking of us? We were critical of that back then. In the end, we did agree, because in 2007 we thought that our own Dutch companies might still have opportunities on the foreign markets. It turns out, however, that things have turned out quite differently. We still have two Dutch companies left. These are integrated companies, which have to compete with integrated companies from other countries operating in our market. Does the D66 Group agree, together with all the other groups supporting Mr Smaling's amendment, that we have now gained that insight and that you have great doubts about it? Doesn't she agree that you can say: let that split go on at the same time as the other home markets continue to split? I would like to know that from the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u23	That is precisely why I just touched this point, in response to Mr Smaling. We decided at the time that it was good for the Dutch market, knowing that we are working together on further liberalisation in the context of the European energy market. We said at the time that it was important to give consumers more opportunities to go to another energy supplier and to ensure lower rates on the Dutch market. However, I certainly have critical doubts as to whether it is still necessary. After all, I have just said it myself, even in Rotterdam and Middelburg people are happy to switch from energy supplier nowadays and we have already achieved lower rates. So you may wonder if that last step is still necessary. It's a very important step. So I also think that the Minister really should be able to justify why all the legislative guarantees we already have would be insufficient. The critical questions that Mrs Mulder would like me to put, therefore, I also place. However, I will wait for the Minister's answer first. The CDA has already come to its conclusion; I haven't yet. That is why I put these critical questions to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u24	A follow-up question from Mrs Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u25	There was almost the impression here that a number of parties in the Chamber made a certain choice at the time, although they had great doubts, and now they are very sorry, given all the effects that we have all been able to see and which affect all the jobs of the people here in the gallery and those who are still outside. The CDA thinks it's important to just pour ready-made wine here. I am surprised that the D66 Group cannot do so at the moment. I am therefore very curious to see the end of this debate with the D66 Group. I would ask Mrs Van Veldhoven what direction it is going to go.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u26	First of all, let me say that I regret that I could not be outside when the petition was offered. That was because I was at another debate here in the Chamber. However, I certainly take people's concerns about their jobs seriously. I can very well imagine that they are worried. I have just said in response to one of my colleagues that employment and jobs are extremely important for D66. We put all kinds of bets on that. So I take this employment issue very seriously too. I could say that I am surprised that the CDA has already reached its conclusion before the debate. I await the Minister's answers, but I do ask critical questions. That's what Mrs. Mulder and I share. Is this necessary, yes or no? Is this far-reaching instrument really the means that we need to use now? I really expect answers from the Minister to these questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u27	I do agree with the way in which the CDA colleague puts her questions. I also think that Mrs Van Veldhoven of D66 says 'a little bit of this and a little bit of that' and then leaves a question to the Minister. What exactly do you want? The division law introduced by your minister, who always thought D66 was so important, are we going to apply it to all citizens and all companies in the Netherlands? Of course, it's very easy to bake some sweet sandwiches here with the people in the stands, but it's much harder to just say what you think and then just tell the honest story.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u28	I understand that the PvdA supported that first division law, then opposed the split and now is in favour of it again. I do not know how clear that is for the parties in the gallery. The answer I would like to give is, as you do very often as a coalition party: if you have any questions, ask the Minister. That's what I do. There is nothing easier for a party than to say: this is my line, I support it and whether there is reason to doubt it or not, I do not. It does make you vulnerable, but I really want to make a decision based on: is this necessary or is this not necessary? People have a right to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u29	I note that D66 does not answer the question and instead wishes to vent the usual 'turn of the Labour Party'. I don't think that's a choice. I want D66 to just say what it stands for and that the people in the bleachers know what D66 stands for, as I just told them on the Square and say again here what I stand for.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u30	I have said very clearly a number of times what D66 stands for. We support the aims of the division law, but we wonder if this means of division is the only way to achieve those objectives. I stand for that and for careful consideration. I think that's very clear. Unfortunately, I cannot help saying that this is not the answer Mr Vos would have liked to hear. In addition to this extremely important subject of the division, there are a few other issues in this law. I shall now go into this a little further, but perhaps Mrs Van Tongeren still has a question on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u31	The division may also have an effect on the Borssele nuclear power plant. If, after long thought, D66 proves to be in favour of division, what would be the solution for the nuclear power plant? Or is that going to be a question to the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u32	Mrs Van Tongeren just had an interruption on exactly this same point. I said I'd come back to that. I did, but she wasn't in the room at the time. I don't know if she heard my answer back then.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u33	I've heard the answer, but I've just got an interruption. Mrs Van Veldhoven will be able to ask a counter question during my term. My question now is: how does D66 see that? Or is that going to be another question to the Minister? I would like a clear answer on the Borssele nuclear power plant. Is it allowed to come into foreign hands? What are we going to do about the guarantee fund, which does not have enough money for decommissioning? How does D66 look at this, both when split up and not split up?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u34	I also said in my previous reply that I think this is a right point of attention. If we are going to split up, we must do so carefully. A number of points are very vulnerable. The Borssele nuclear power plant is ahead of all of us. We cannot sit around with a guarantee fund with too little money, which makes it unclear whether there is enough money to decommission that nuclear power plant, which is at the end of its life, or whether other problems would arise. If the Minister were to decide to split up, he would have to have a very good package for that. I asked the Minister if he was in agreement with the shareholders and with the provinces. They have a huge problem that can't just be passed on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u35	Will you continue your argument?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u36	I wanted to respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u37	Mrs Van Tongeren would like to ask another supplementary question. It's a little procedural, so she gets that opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u38	D66 is actually doing what happened last night in the debate: the answers are always a little indicative of what the difficulties are without taking a position. It is particularly difficult to debate if we do not get answers to the questions asked. Yes, of course it is a problem if the guarantee fund is far too small, but D66 does not say that it needs to be replenished before splitting. No, the question will be returned to the Minister. Would D66 like to make one more attempt? If we split up, what will happen to the Borssele nuclear power station? Should it remain in the hands of the state? Can it be sold abroad? Should the guarantee fund be supplemented? How does D66 see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u39	Now it is as if Mrs Van Tongeren sees me as a ruler. I find that interesting. Let me answer very clearly some of the many questions she has asked. The nuclear power plant in foreign hands? No, I do not think that would be desirable for such a sensitive object. The guarantee fund? Of course, there must be enough money in such a guarantee fund so that you have sufficient resources when that nuclear power plant needs to be dismantled. Where the minister gets them from, his concern is when he decides to split up. That is why I say: if you decide to do so, think very carefully about a number of aspects of it. I would therefore like to know from the Minister whether he has thought about this, whether he has solutions and what his example is.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u40	Please continue your speech, Mrs Van Veldhoven.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u41	I come to a number of other important issues. Two major operators of gas and electricity networks, namely the Gasunie and TenneT, will soon be able to cross-connect with abroad with this bill. The networks do not stop at borders and we depend very much on what other countries do on their networks for our security of supply. Through an exchange of shares, the government hopes to improve cooperation over and over again when it contributes to reliability, affordability or sustainability. However, the dominant control, i.e. control of the Dutch network, must always remain in Dutch hands. I believe that this is a consistent position that we must take everywhere. I would like to impose additional conditions on stock sales, even if you guarantee them. Independence must also be guaranteed here. My group has a number of doubts about this. What would happen, for example, if the foreign network operator wanted to resell the shares to a third party, to Russia to name but one? What are the consequences for the Dutch network if the foreign network manager would suffer heavy losses? How do we prevent us from creating a kind of waterhead, where the risk of our network managers running abroad is no longer proportionate to their own capital? Selling shares is a one-time sale of the silver table. How can the Minister guarantee that the proceeds will be used again for investments in the network? We are facing very large investments in the Dutch network, which are needed in the context of the energy transition we all represent. Does the Minister intend to use these resources, or should this revenue simply flow into the general budget as far as he is concerned? If that's the case, we're actually selling the silver table. Does the Minister consider that the shares should only be sold to a country that has a direct connection with the Netherlands? After all, it must be in the interest of the Dutch taxpayer if part of the capital is withdrawn from that network. Does the Minister agree with D66 that all stock sales should be approved by the Minister and, if so, why is it not included in the law? Then I'm gonna come up with a cable. High voltage cables are of great importance for national energy supply. They ensure that almost all homes and companies in the Netherlands are connected to electricity. However, the cables are not always good for the areas they pass through. They disturb the view and can even cause health problems among the immediate residents. It is therefore good progress that more and more cables can be laid underground, but that obviously costs money. The law provides that 75% of the costs are paid by the network manager and thus by every Dutchman. The Minister wants to place 25% on the board of the municipality that requests it. This own contribution is intended to ensure that the municipality that wants to have the high-voltage cables underground is properly considering whether its costs outweigh the local benefits. I understand the introduction of such a cost threshold, but you want that to be considered carefully. However, some municipalities have much more mileage of high-voltage cable than others and their construction is a national interest. D66 requested a list of municipalities with the cost of wiring. This shows that the burden is not evenly distributed at all. In Lingewaard and Ede, for example, the cost of the own contribution is higher than €200 per inhabitant. Then you might ask yourself whether that is actually a reasonable contribution to ask of the inhabitants for their national interest. My group believes that it should be enshrined in the law that the Minister can decide on a lower own contribution if the costs would be disproportionate. We have an amendment in preparation for that. I have seen the Christian Union amendment and that of the CDA. I also find that interesting. I look forward to the Minister's response to these proposals and to their feasibility. I now come to the connection right to heat. The Dutch heat supply was based for a long time on the large gas bubble in Slochteren. That was actually the starting point. However, with the earthquakes in Groningen and the run-up of the North-West European gas fields, we really need to move towards a fundamentally different approach. People don't necessarily want gas, but they do want a warm house. We now see that there are alternatives in development to offer that. That is why, including in our legislation, we must give the same chance to heat sources as residual heat, electricity and insulation. This change must become part of the laws and regulations. My group therefore believes that it really is an end to the practice of connection to gas. It should be replaced by a connection charge on heat in any form. But that is still quite difficult to translate into legislation at the moment. Could the Minister examine how equal treatment of different heat sources can be incorporated into laws and regulations and what are the advantages and disadvantages of this? So I'm really not just talking about a heat network, but about all the different ways in which people can keep their homes warm. I ask the Minister to send a letter to the Chamber with various options to change a gas connection obligation into a right to a connection in a way that you can heat your home. I have two brief points to conclude. We already have to certify green electricity, but why don't we ask for this for grey electricity? This means more transparency of origin, a more reliable comparison of different energy products and less possibilities to use grey flow or to cheat with green flow. I thought the Christian Union had tabled an amendment on this, which I find very interesting. Gas is basically the same thing. With more transparency about origin, customers can choose for themselves, for example whether or not they want to have gas from the Arctic. Is it already technically possible to make guarantees of origin for this? Is the Minister prepared to investigate this? I believe that GroenLinks has tabled an amendment on this point, which I find very interesting. That is why I am asking the Minister what the implementation issues are. Finally, a final word. We're in the middle of a huge transition. Let us work together to bring the rules into line step by step.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u42	Mr. Chairman. We're handling the bill STROOM today. This is a technical and not easy to understand bill, but it regulates very practical matters, such as the construction of large wind farms at sea and the connections to them, which will result in the Netherlands producing much more renewable energy in the near future. It not only regulates that network companies need to build thicker cables so that more power goes through, but also that we are smarter in enabling citizens of this country, corporations and companies to supply power to our grid instead of just taking away the large power stations that are set up in our country. This transition, which we are in the middle of, is extremely important, because this country emits too much CO and we have too little renewable energy. This means that our climate is changing and that we are becoming geopolitically dependent on other countries, I say in the light of everything that has happened in Groningen. Electricity and gas are basic products, to which all Dutch people must have equal access. That's the spirit. Production, transport and supply of energy are therefore subject to the legislation we are discussing today. The energy networks in the Netherlands are a monopoly knowledge infrastructure. In the public gallery there are many employees of DELTA and Eneco. Although this law does not specifically monitor it, I think it would be a good idea for us to go into that further. The transformation that we in the Netherlands are experiencing from a society in which there are a few large power stations that generate energy using gas or coal, to a much more complex society in the energy sector where energy is generated in many places in a much more sustainable way, has been deployed about ten years ago and is accelerating now. This means that there are enormous risks for energy producers. Companies in Germany that produce nuclear energy know that, because they have been told by the government there that they have to shut down all power stations. Companies in some countries in the world know that because they have to shut down all their coal plants. In the Netherlands too, in the energy agreement with 42 companies and civil society organisations, the cabinet decided that we would simply close 5 coal power stations in the Netherlands. This makes the division law, which has already been discussed a great deal in the Chamber today, very relevant. In the Netherlands, we do not want the networks on which our energy is being transported to run such risks that we will not be able to supply more electricity when we want it, that security of supply for Dutch households will be compromised and that the basic products will not come where they really belong, that is to say to consumers and businesses. These risks are not well distributed in undivided companies. You can see that in the numbers of those companies. These companies make a great deal of profit with the network company, but the production companies are at great risk and often suffer losses. That is an existing situation and that is why I still think it is important that these companies are split up today. Consumers in the Netherlands are entitled to the cheapest possible form of renewable energy. That's the transition we're all in. Changing hurts, but it's necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u43	One last interruption by Mrs. Klever.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u44	I am now hearing a completely different story from Mr Vos, which was in the newspaper exactly a year ago. Then Mr Vos said: the argument for division is not so sure anymore. Then Mr Vos said that he thought employment was important in Zeeland. Has he been flogged back or repented by his group? What happened to him telling a completely different story now than exactly a year ago?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u45	In my opinion, my group has always been quite consistent on this point. Mrs. Klever is pulling out a sentence. That phrase referred to the European situation. We have had an exchange of views on this matter before today. When the law was introduced, the minister who was responsible for that at the time was convinced that the division would be achieved in this way throughout Europe. That didn't work out. In that sense, that argument is no longer convincing. At the same time, it should also be noted that the networks are not in public hands throughout Europe. Some of them are also in private hands. It should also be noted that a company such as Essent suffers a lot of damage in the Netherlands from the situation in Germany. The internationalisation that has taken place has advantages not only because of a better credit rating, but also disadvantages, because your exposure and international risks are increasing. That is what I intended to say at the time. Mrs Klever is now knocking it down and saying that the PvdA is taking the jobs of those people in Zeeland. I understand that from her electoral considerations, but it does not do justice to the reality and the honest story I am telling here today. I don't like it when you tell a little bit of this and a little bit of that or if you twist the truth.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u46	Mr Vos now pretends to pick a sentence from an article, but the whole article was about it. The headline was "Kentering at PvdA around split energy companies." The whole article breathed that the PvdA would no longer want to push through the split. Now, exactly a year later, we are on the verge of the PvdA telling a completely different story. Let me try another way. 1,800 people came to The Hague today. They've offered a petition. Mr Vos now has the opportunity to say to these 1800 people: yes, you keep your job, because that argument is no longer important and I am going to stop that split. He now has the opportunity to tell those people that they can keep their jobs. Why doesn't the PvdA do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u47	Reality is being violated here. In Dutch companies, when a company works well, such a company makes a profit. When a company makes a profit and is financially healthy, jobs grow. If a company is not financially healthy and if the management of a company has made wrong choices or if you are just unlucky, it is not doing well with such a company. The workers are often the victims of this. The division law was introduced ten years ago. I have already argued that I think it is very important that, if the Supreme Court in the Netherlands says that the law should be enforced, that law in the Netherlands applies to the companies DELTA and Eneco. Mrs Klever can table an amendment to change the law and then all companies, all employees, all municipalities and all other public authorities who have kept to that law for ten years will be treated unjustly, because she wants to take these people into account in a fairly flat manner and pretend to be able to keep their jobs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u48	Mr. Chairman. I'd like to respond to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u49	You've had a follow-up question. Deal's...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u50	I'm being accused of doing politics here in a flat way. That's the pot blaming the kettle.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u51	Then you must make a personal statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u52	Yes, this is a personal fact. Mr Fox of the Labour Party told the people in Zeeland a year ago that he would not push through the split. He now has the key in his hands not to push through the split. Those are the facts. He shouldn't turn it around.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u53	In my view, the Labour Party and the Christian Union both consider a number of things important, namely the maintenance of networks in public hands, employment in the region and the transition to sustainable energy supply. With the planned division as stated in this law, which Eneco and DELTA will have to comply with, employment will still be under pressure and the transition to renewable energy that these companies have initiated will be at risk, won't it? That's not small. For the first point, keeping the nets in public hands, isn't the split necessary? If I list these three important points of the Labour Party, how can the conclusion be that we will continue to split up?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u54	You're an entrepreneur. You have two companies and a holding company up there. One company is loss-making and the other profitable. You use the money from the profitable company to subsidise the loss-making company. That's how you get the loss-making company back to health. Well, you've got time for that. It is my opinion that the law, which has been in force for a long time now, is clear. The Supreme Court has also said that it is clear. The drivers of the companies... wait, I'll leave the drivers out of it. Those companies have had the opportunity to become financially healthy. They didn't. To say now that it is up to politics to say that this division must not continue is a bit easy. That is to say to all those people from the other energy companies, all those governments involved and all those citizens involved: you have kept to the law; as a thank you, we do not do it for those last two companies. How am I supposed to sell that? We live in a country, the Netherlands, where the law is equal for everyone. We're not gonna change that law halfway through the trial, are we? There's no way we can be trusted with that, is there? I also do not understand why Mrs Dik, like other parties in the House of Representatives, can sell this with dry eyes. That's just not the way reality is. The reality is that there is a loss-making company, a company that is therefore not healthy. This is because the market has changed and perhaps also because entrepreneurs in those companies could have made other choices.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u55	The PvdA Group has put forward many points of view, but in fact I have not received an answer to my question at all. The situation was that two companies were split, with foreign companies, which were not split, taking over the Dutch companies. Then I saw job losses and a fall in investment in renewable energy. If we face that, we should not continue to implement the law that is now before us. Of course, we must be consistent in a certain way, but we must also pay attention to reality and be open to new facts and new arguments.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u56	Do you come to your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u57	My question is: will the PvdA Group perhaps take off the blinders, face up to what happened at the time and, because of employment and the commitment to sustainability, reconsider the position?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u58	When I look sharp, without blinkers, I see that investment in renewable energy has increased enormously over the past three years. We invest billions in renewable energy. That's a political choice. This has very little to do with these companies, because investment in renewable energy comes from the government, from the regulations we make here and from investors in renewable energy, such as pension funds, banks, energy companies and insurers. That has nothing to do with the split. Mrs. Dik is talking to Mrs. Van Tongeren. She asks me to take off the blinders, but I ask her to keep her ears open when I answer her question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u59	Please continue, Mr. Fox.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u60	I understand very well that she is bringing in that split now, but it has nothing to do with each other. The second argument is job losses. Again, the market conditions for fossil energy producers are dramatically poor. These are the poor market conditions that people have to deal with, and that is why these jobs are being lost. However, this has nothing to do with the division of holdings. If you split up two healthy companies, there are still as many jobs. If you split an unhealthy and a healthy company, it may be that the unhealthy company cannot continue on the old path. That has nothing to do with the split. This has to do with the inherent business practices and the market conditions in which these companies have to operate. So she needs to look more closely and listen better.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u61	In itself, the Minister does not want what Mr Vos says about a holding company with two working companies that deal with each other because things are a little worse for one than for the other. The CDA doesn't want that either. That is why it has been checked in recent years. In fact, evaluations do not show that the integrated companies functioned worse than split companies in the Netherlands or that they had a negative impact on consumers. I would like to give that to Mr Vos. It is a very right point that you do not have to go from one bv to another, or whatever the construction is. No party in this Chamber wants that. That's where the PvdA finds the CDA on its way. However, the question is whether the impact can be achieved by all measures in this and in the existing law. Do you think that's enough, or shouldn't you be even stricter and actually enforce that group ban? This is not happening in other countries. That brings me to my question, namely that it gives you an uneven playing field with the foreign market, where integrated companies are also active. They have bought our split companies in the Netherlands, but they do have the advantages of the home market, i.e. a network and the fact that they can often borrow more favourably. These benefits are lost to the parties in the Netherlands such as Eneco and DELTA and therefore they are in trouble to take further steps in the area of sustainability.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u62	Would you like to come to your question now?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u63	Does the PvdA share this concern with the CDA about this unequal European playing field?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u64	I don't share that concern. Today's companies are free to look for a foreign partner or a foreign network company that is unsplit...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u65	I would like to remind you that the shareholders of the companies sold abroad have given permission to do so. They have done so very consciously, because they have made an incredible amount of money by doing so. Those shareholders are municipalities and provincial governments, and that money is used to do a lot of good public things. Those companies were not forced to be sold and no common party has come from abroad that has taken over these companies. I would also like to add that the risks of cooperation are very high. What do you see at RWE Essent? Essent was sold to a German company. In Germany, the political situation is changing and there is currently an enormous amount of pressure on that company. Despite the good leverage with that better credit rating, it slides down in a dive now that the legislation has changed in Germany. As a result, RWE Essent can be much worse off than our own companies in Zeeland and in the Rotterdam region.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u66	Do I hear Mr Vos of the PvdA say that we are turning our backs on our latest integrated companies, because it is bad because of new decisions on a foreign market? Is that what Mr. Vos is saying now?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u67	Here's what I'm saying. As a representative of the people, I feel the responsibility to provide energy to Dutch citizens. We have that task. In order to do this properly, we need to ensure that the networks in the Netherlands are in public hands. We have to protect them. The supply of electricity to those networks has a high level of risk. I do not want to assume that this will end up on the taxpayers' sign. It's a commercial task. It doesn't have to get the energy from people's homes. That is also what that law aims for, and why I still think it is perfectly justifiable today that we should just enforce it, just as the Supreme Court has said, because it is not contrary to any regulation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u68	Mr Vos says that employment can disappear at Eneco and DELTA, because it is simply the market. The company makes decisions, but it can go wrong, and then the situation changes. According to him, that's a business risk. Can the PvdA Group explain to me why ALDEL was decisive in terms of employment and had to be saved? We are all paying for this now even though it was just a company that had misjudged market conditions?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u69	At ALDEL, it's a whole different story. Since 2007, 2008 many companies have gone bankrupt in the Netherlands. In Zeeland that happened with Thermphos and Zalco. It happened to Philip Morris. A lot of people lost their jobs. I believe that this split, now that it has to be continued because the law applies to everyone, must be done very carefully. That is one of my questions to the Minister. The most important point is employment in Zeeland. I would also ask the Minister to answer this question in a moment's time. What exactly are the employment effects? How does he think he's gonna stop people from getting out on the street? However, I would like to say this again. The management of DELTA clearly says that people are going to be on the streets. However, this is not because of the split. That's because the company is not well managed. The political way in which it is framed here is not correct. That is simply not the reality. Anyone who can look at the company's figures knows that business is the cause of the bad results.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u70	With that reasoning, ALDEL was not properly managed either. For that company, the Labour Party has stuck its neck in order to save jobs. According to Mr Vos, Eneco is not well managed either. Why is there that difference? ALDEL, who threatened to go bankrupt because of poor management, was saved. We pay for that every month through our energy bill. Then why wouldn't that apply to the people of Delta? And in one breath, Mr Vos says that Eneco is also badly managed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u71	No, I didn't say Eneco was badly managed. I also did not say that DELTA is by definition poorly managed. I just said if it's management...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u72	Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to the public gallery, of course. However, the Rules of Procedure require you to refrain from any sign of approval or rejection. I'd be happy to make that request to you. As an audience, I wish you a pleasant treat in this meeting. Mr Vos has the floor again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u73	With permission, I understand that the people in the public gallery are reacting this way. I can understand that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u74	Sure, but not in this meeting.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u75	I'm just trying to tell you how I think it's happening today. I'll try to tell the honest story. It is very easy to say today: we are going to save the company, we are going to secure employment, we are going to do this and we are going to do that, because we are talking about 1,800 people. That is not the reality. The reality is that, if there are any immediate redundancies at DELTA, that's a management decision, not mine here today, because the company is not running properly.............................................................................................................................................................................................. It is not going to happen again: not because we want to split the company to ensure the nets for all Dutch, and therefore also for the Zeeuws and the people in Rotterdam. So that's not why these people are gonna be out on the street. I have already said that I would like to know from the Minister what impact it would have on employment. Of course, the Labour Party will be at the forefront if it becomes apparent that people will soon be on the streets. If there's anything we can do about that, we will. However, it has nothing to do with the split. It has to do with the company making certain choices or being forced into a particular position by market conditions. I would like to clarify that fact in today's debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u76	There is an interruption by Mr Smaling.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u77	Mr President, a brief point of order. When Mr Vos answered my question as to why ALDEL's employees should be saved and the employees of DELTA and Eneco were not, there was some noise from the public gallery. Then Mr. Fox was distracted. Afterwards, he started speaking to the public gallery, so I still haven't gotten an answer to my question as to why ALDEL's employees are not saved, and that of DELTA and Eneco.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u78	Clear. I call Mr Smaling. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u79	Mr. Vos is standing there like a Roman emperor, but they were sometimes very fickle. In 2014, Mr Vos said that the situation had changed substantially; now he has another judgment. Mrs. Klever already referred to that. Mr Vos also says things that I do not think are right. I heard him say at first that the ruling of the Supreme Court means that this law is now just and must therefore be implemented. That's not true. The Supreme Court has said that the law is not contrary to European law. That is a very different statement than: this law must be implemented up to the level that every large company is split up. I can see that, can't I? Why does Mr Vos interpret that ruling of the Supreme Court in an incorrect way, in my view?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u80	As Mr Smaling says, it is similar, but the law of division has always been in force. So that means that those companies should have split up by now. They haven't had to do that yet, because they've followed procedure after procedure in court. That was their right, but now the Supreme Court has finally said: sorry, but this really does not contradict any laws and regulations. So the law that we have passed here in the Lower House also applies to these companies. They will therefore have to comply with that law, as will all other companies in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u81	I'm still surprised. Last year Mr Vos apparently had a moving insight, which is now gone. There is a second point where I doubt whether it is true. DELTA has a positive operating result of 20 million. If Delta were to fall over, there would be no risk to the network operator. It is legal that it will not be affected. So why does Mr Vos insist on bad management at DELTA, while the figures show something else? It hasn't always been easy, I say that right away, but now that I see the figures among myself, my conclusion is that DELTA has things very nicely done. So I do not understand why hammering on the bad operation of DELTA would further underline Mr Vos's point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u82	At DELTA, the production and delivery business is very difficult, while the networks provide sufficient results. There is therefore cross-subsidisation. This is also clear from the documents received by the Chamber. It's okay if you do that for a while. I already gave the example of an entrepreneur who has two working companies. You can very well use the profits from one company to compensate for the losses from another company. But you have to make sure that the loss-making company gets healthy in the long run. It goes a long way for me to say: you cut it and are therefore responsible for any employment effects. Then I say, no, you should have kept your business in order; you knew for a long time that you had to keep your business in order. If that's how the ball is placed with me, I'll kick it back. Then the company can ask itself what it could have done over the past ten years to prevent this situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u83	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u84	The STROOM Act is a revision of the Electricity Act and the Gas Act. The division of tasks between system operators, which are now called system operators, and network operators, from now on the infrastructure companies and the production and supply companies, are being re-established. Several market players indicate that they can live with the division of labour as laid down in the law and the AMvB, but still express their concerns. On the one hand, there are network operators who would like to have the space to be active in the field of energy saving advice and alternatives to grid congestion, such as local storage and local balancing systems. On the other hand, there are commercial parties who fear that they will be pushed out of the market by public infrastructure companies. I am therefore considering a motion to ask the government to investigate further the precise definition of tasks and permitted activities. The PvdA Group welcomes the STROOM Act, which represents a review and streamlining of electricity and gas extraction. An important part of this law is that TenneT is designated as a network manager at sea. This is important for the roll-out of wind farms and for the successful development of the tenders for offshore wind energy. That is why the Chamber has opted for an early plenary debate on this law. Can the tenders, including the wind farms at Borssele, start on time? In addition, I would like to clarify whether the system of compensation for late delivery of the connection by TenneT has now been arranged to everyone's satisfaction. The energy transition is increasingly driven by citizens and companies who want to use solar energy, wind energy, green gas and sustainable heat individually or collectively. We can see this in the quantities of solar panels that appear on the roofs of houses in the Netherlands, partly thanks to the subsidy scheme that this cabinet uses. The increasingly decentralised generation makes alternatives to the relatively expensive grid increase increasingly important. The network operator is becoming increasingly interested in decentralised congestion management through access to storage capacity and flexibility time services. However, large investments are needed to achieve this. Public infrastructure companies can play a major role in this. It remains to be seen whether commercial market players will play a major role in this, as they have to work with shorter payback periods. The Labour Party therefore wants the Minister to carry out an investigation into the role of infrastructure companies in accelerating the sustainability of energy supply. I am considering tabling a motion asking for this analysis to be made before the Energy Report is published. I'd like to get a response from the Minister. In this context, I would also like to see an explanation of Article 4.14 (3) in which the AMvB does not mention a veil, while we are wondering what infrastructure companies are and are not allowed to do. As a result, I would like to make one further comment. Network operators can set up renewable energy and energy savings projects within a certain bandwidth. To this end, an experimental article 5.37 and a temporary task article 5.34 are included in the law. However, the effect of this in the AMvB can be considered too restrictive. I would also like to table a motion in which I ask the Minister to remove these restrictions. These include the number of experiments, the legal form chosen, the participants with a greater connection and other unnecessary restrictions, in my group's view. I would also like to receive a response from the Minister. A very large player in the Netherlands in the field of energy, Gasunie Transport Services, still finds, even after the written answer, that Article 4.14 of the law hinders any innovative activities to be developed. For the Gasunie, therefore, the point remains that this article, in its current form, makes it unnecessarily complex for the infrastructure company to develop infrastructure together with the market for projects related to renewable gas. I would like to ask the Minister to clarify this point. Can I also ask him to include this in the aforementioned study or to give a response that my group can already accept at the moment? In this context, it is also the question of why demand management by the system operator is excluded in advance, see Article 5.11 of the AMvB. Can the Minister explain this? We wonder whether this will not hinder the production of more renewable energy. It might get a little boring. I told you, it's a pretty technical law. We have had a more exciting part, but I would like to do this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u85	I would simply go through with my speech as glowingly as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u86	The electricity that households in the Netherlands are taking away from this is a good point to turn on a little bit more... is for two thirds of green electricity and for a third gray stream. From the green stream, the data is kept. We know exactly where he comes from through guarantees of origin at CertiQ. A number of spokesmen have already pointed this out. At present there is no breakdown of how grey electricity has been generated, for example from coal, gas or nuclear energy. It should be. In Austria, however, there is a system with full transparency. I think it would be good if we had that in the Netherlands as well. Can the Minister respond to this? Today, high-voltage networks can be built partly underground. Then you won't have masts with cables anymore, but everything is neatly disposed of underground. Of course, it costs money. A lot of residents do not want high-voltage cables near them, because that looks annoying, and some people also think that this could lead to health risks. This bill provides for a municipality to be able to cable and submerge high-voltage grids, but that municipality will have to contribute 25% to the costs. A lot of municipal administrators have approached me. They say: we still think that is a lot of money. They wonder why they have to pay 25% themselves and think it would be better if those costs were passed on to all energy users in the Netherlands, so that they do not have to contribute anything. I would like to receive a response from the Minister to the question as to why he chose the percentage of 25. Can't that be a little less, or can't we do it in a better way? Because in this way poor municipalities will never be able to create for their residents the cabling, the underground use of high-voltage cables. Since the split-off of the high-voltage and high-pressure networks, TenneT and Gasunie have been subject to 100% public ownership; the D66 Group has also spoken on this subject. There is even a privatisation ban in the law. It excludes any form of immoral interference by commercial parties on the network. This is a monopoly of knowledge infrastructure, which must ensure access to basic supplies of electricity and gas for all. However, this bill is suddenly abandoned. For the sake of my group, for unclear reasons, a 49.9% minority privatisation is allowed to allow cross participation between 5% and 15% of network operators in other countries. I don't understand that very well. Why this change of course? What are we gonna win with it? Then why should we be able to privatise such a huge percentage, namely 49.9. I would like to receive an explanation from the Minister. What's he up to with the bill? Are there any proposals? Are we gonna do certain things and change business? If so, what cases? And can he explain why he recorded such a high percentage instead of the modest percentage of 5 to 15 that we discussed earlier? The second letter of amendment proposes to reverse the definition of "connection" to the understanding of the current Electricity Act of 1998 and to link it to the WOZ object; this is another technical point. According to my group, this does not seem to be legally correct and gives uncertainty about the interpretation of this concept. I would therefore like to echo the previously introduced concept of 'connection'. I would like to receive a response from the Minister as to why he believes that it is better regulated in the manner set out in the second letter of amendment. I would like to ask for specific attention from the Minister for the Zeeland nuclear power plant. How exactly is that gonna work out? Suppose DELTA does indeed get into trouble, as has been said several times in the media. Then what are we gonna do about that nuclear power plant? In what way does the Minister look ahead to the division and the role that nuclear energy plays in this? What about the ambush, the cost of cleaning up the nuclear waste? At Thermphos we saw that the province of Zeeland and provincial shareholders were ultimately responsible for this. I do not want this to be repeated at the nuclear power plant. I would therefore like to hear a final argument from the Minister about how he intends to deal with the nuclear power plant. I see it more as a national interest and a national issue, partly because of the security involved, than as a provincial interest. I certainly do not want the burden of that nuclear power plant, or the mismanage of that burden, to descend to the province of Zeeland in the future. I would therefore like to receive a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u87	That gives Mrs Van Tongeren reason to place her third and final interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u88	Mr Vos has just told the Chamber that his party is in favour of division. DELTA has made it clear to us that it provides serious financial problems if that happens. This means that there is a huge problem directly surrounding the nuclear power plant. Would the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance support the proposal that at least there should be no split-up until there is a clear solution to that nuclear power plant? That must be a solution for the nuclear power station as it is now running, its security, the disposal of the waste, but also, as Mr Vos said, for the fund for final decommissioning. In any case, we will ensure that we do not shift the problem to the province and we will have a solution before we create the nuclear power plant problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u89	I'm very curious how the Minister sees this. I'd like to hear that explanation. After that, we can assess that. It's not for nothing that I bring up the subject. However, I think it is too early to table a motion with Mrs Van Tongeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u90	Has the PvdA Group thought about this and debated it? Does the group have a position in this at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u91	I don't quite understand what Mrs Van Tongeren is asking. If she wants to be present at the Labour Party's political group meetings, she can, but then she must become a member of the party first. Then she can listen in. What I am saying today is that we are extremely concerned about the position of the Zeeland nuclear power plant. We would like to hear from the Minister how, looking ahead to what is about to happen, he intends to resolve that. I don't need to put that bill in the province of Zeeland. So I'd like to hear a closing story from the Minister. I'm gonna wait and see. In the second term, we can then possibly look at what we have to do. I'll make a final comment. Employment in Zeeland has fallen sharply in recent years. The population is ageing; many people are moving away. I know because you may not believe it - I grew up in Zierikzee myself. So I have enjoyed the services of DELTA for a very long time. The company cares more about me than some might think. We in Groningen have made a great deal of efforts to help the people there. That's been successful. A number of companies were closed and reopened there. People have been helped with other, better jobs. Economic infrastructure has been strengthened. I ask the Minister to deal with the way he thinks he can help the province of Zeeland to create more jobs there in the future and to allow the economy to grow further.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u92	It all sounds fantastic. Mr Vos grew up in Zierikzee and asked the Minister to look again at that beautiful province and the employment that is under so much pressure there. But can the Labour Party indicate that no job is actually lost? Is this employment maintained?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u93	In the Netherlands, Parliament is not responsible for the results of individual companies and therefore not for the result of DELTA. What we are responsible for is the economic infrastructure in our country. We must ensure that it is designed in such a way that all people in the Netherlands can get to work. We can do this best by innovating as much as possible. When you look backwards, you don't usually get very far in life. I am happy to look forward and I note with Mrs Dik that every year we invest billions in renewable energy, including wind at sea. I hope that these offshore wind projects will create new jobs in the Netherlands, particularly in Zeeland. There are very good opportunities there. It is one of the places where I believe we can innovate in the Netherlands and create more and other jobs. We are moving from an economy with coal plants and nuclear power stations to an economy with solar panels and wind turbines. This means that things are changing for everyone in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u94	I haven't actually heard an answer yet. With the Labour Party's decision to agree to the division and the law before it, hundreds of jobs are lost. Where are these people gonna go later? What is the solution of the Labour Party?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u95	I'd almost say you're doing it again. You're suggesting that this split will make people lose their jobs, but it's not. The fact that the coal power plant is leaving makes these people lose their jobs. The fact that certain prices have been agreed for the reduction of energy from the nuclear power plant ensures this. The fact that there has not been a timely transition to the new economy ensures this. That economy has changed so quickly that it could not be connected to it in time. This means that people in Zeeland, perhaps people working at DELTA, have to work in another place. I hope within DELTA, but possibly outside. It's not like that split's gonna do that. This link is being established, but it is a false story that is being used to implement structural reforms within these companies. That is not something the Labour Party can solve here in The Hague.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u96	Mr. Chairman. To begin with, I would like to refer to Mr Vos's last point. He tells all those people who work at Delta and Eneco: the market is changing and you need to get used to your job losses. But why don't those arguments apply to Aldel? If you claim to be consistent, you should also say that aluminium smelters in the Netherlands are no longer of this time. I hope to receive a second reply from Mr Vos. The objective of STROOM was to streamline, optimize and modernise. Streamlining and optimizing are okay, but what happened to modernising? The law should provide more scope for matching supply and demand at local level, for new storage services and for large-scale experiments. Nevertheless, it has become a gigantic law with 65 delegation bases. As a Member of Parliament, I have been doing this work for five years now, and I am a little suspicious when a minister asks for so much room for manoeuvre in completing the rules. As Mr Smaling said, a minister who comes to the Chamber with good arguments will receive the Chamber. The Minister also says there's a huge rush. I understand. I have also always tried to deal with the law as quickly as possible. The minister says: "We all want wind at sea. That is what money has been earmarked for, and we need to speed things up." The law should therefore be in force before 31 March 2016, so that wind at sea is quickly realized and does not become more expensive. According to GroenLinks, however, the minister has made wind at sea unnecessarily vulnerable by regulating so incredibly much in this one law. Why didn't he come up with a limited law first? It could have quickly passed the Chamber and then we could have quickly arranged that part that is needed for wind at sea. The Council of State recommended making two separate sections for the provisions on electricity and gas in which it provided problems. That suggestion of the Council of State has not been taken up. I'd like to hear from the Minister why he didn't. Previously, the Minister stated that the transition to a sustainable energy economy requires integration. But I do not understand that very well either, because gas is not a renewable energy. It is a source that we will undoubtedly use for a while, but we do not want a transition from gas to gas. Then why should this integration be incorporated into the law? Shouldn't gas legislation be in the service of a heat vision? That's the future. Not the middle gas should be central, but the question what we need in the Netherlands. We need heat to keep our houses and, for example, the House of Representatives warm. Why doesn't the legislation leave enough room not to connect houses, streets and neighbourhoods to the gas? That is a question I have already raised with the Minister. If you make a transition to clean energy, it is not useful to bring the expensive infrastructure network of our gas to all houses. At this point, I will make a motion. The energy transition is accompanied by a forest of conditions. Purchasing power, employment, competitiveness: they must all benefit from it. Our Prime Minister added them to the General Political Reviews. Did the Minister remind him, in the suspension or after, that a CO-free economy is an important objective in itself? If you say that there must also be purchasing power, also employment and competition, it will indeed be very complicated. We see in the Netherlands that houses and nature reserves are neighborhoods for highways, but windmills are still very easily put on hold. Barbecuing may still be allowed anywhere, but a ridge turbine that does not cause noise and has no visible moving parts can still not be placed anywhere within the built-up area. Can the Minister answer why that is? Green stream must be fully certified, while grey stream can be picked from anywhere; colleagues have said so. Mr Dik-Faber's amendment on this matter is very important to GroenLinks, because it corrects matters on this point. The amendment regulates the transparency of the origin of electricity produced in the Netherlands and imported into the Netherlands. Full disclosure of the source should also apply to fossil and imported electricity. This is how it already works in Austria, so it is possible. In Austria, it has led to a lower share of grey electricity in imports and increased transparency for customers. We have already paid a great deal of attention to the split in the course of the debate. The Netherlands is the only country in Europe that still has an obligation to split ownership for regional network operators. Other European Member States have always chosen a different solution over time. The chance that foreign players in the Dutch energy market will be abducted in their own country seems to me to be small. But what does the Minister think? Production and network within one holding company is an attractive model. This also says RWE-ceo Peter Terium, who is otherwise often admired, but with whom the Minister seems to disagree completely on this point. The market share on the Dutch market of foreign companies which are integrated, which have such a network, will increase to around 80%. Is that correct, Minister? Why, then, should the Dutch companies, the latter two, be divided above all else? Those are the two questions I'm asking the Minister. I hear a slap. Anybody gonna fall off the bleachers? No? That's a good thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u97	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u98	A fine statement is: better in half than in complete error. GroenLinks also gave the benefit of the doubt at the time and said: if we can create a level playing field throughout Europe in this way, we are in favour of it. But we've been ten years. We are seeing a huge change in dynamics throughout the energy market. You can now see how incredibly complicated it is to create more clean energy in the Netherlands. The Minister is trying, but he has the greatest difficulty with it. Why would a company like Eneco shortwave in its ability to realize that in the Netherlands? After all, I am often reminded by the parties not the government that produces the clean energy, it must be companies. The Minister argues that investments, for example in clean energy, should not pose a risk to network management. I keep that same reasoning with foreign adventures, such as the Gasunie and TenneT. They should not pose a risk to network management in the Netherlands. But then it is said: no, they are very good. The same story applies to cross-participants. It is said that it is a good thing that we all get a share. Only for these two companies should then be split. I think network management in the Netherlands is safe and impartial. The Minister doesn't think so. Can he explain what the insecurity is and where it is not impartial? My priority is, of course, the energy transition. That is why I co-signed Mr Smaling's amendment. I have tried to raise Borssele a number of times during interrupt debates. Unfortunately, we have one nuclear power station in the Netherlands. This one stands in the way of an energy transition. In addition, the power plant that is there represents a very complex risk. It's a small risk, but if something happens, it could have serious consequences. GroenLinks believes that this plant should not be in foreign hands, but should be dismantled as soon as possible. The waste that we have already produced must be safely disposed of. If you're gonna split DELTA, you're gonna have a life-threatening problem with that nuclear power plant. I too would like to know how the Minister intends to deal with this question. If the Minister insists on continuing the split, I ask him to discuss with the Chamber his solution for Borssele before Eneco and DELTA are split. I am assuming that he will not have that solution ready tonight. If there is to be a split-up, there must be a good solution for those who lose their jobs as a result. Fortunately, Mr Vos did say this. We must then have good solutions for all the consequences of that for GroenLink's undesirable split. I'd like to get a response from the Minister. In the light of the forced split, I find it all the more strange that network operators will soon be able to engage in cross-participants. While the minister sees large risks as distribution together with supply and production in one holding company, he sees no problem when distribution in the Netherlands becomes inextricably tied up with distribution abroad and therefore indirectly with delivery and production abroad, something we do not want in the Netherlands. It sounds very illogical to me, but I would like to hear the Minister explain it later. The chosen structure of the stock exchange between government-controlled utilities is opaque. As far as we are concerned, this clouds the responsibilities and roles of the companies concerned. This is reinforced by the fact that companies belonging to the same holding company as the foreign system operator may carry out tasks in the Netherlands that companies in Dutch infrastructure groups are not allowed to carry out. Who will understand if Essent, as daughter of RWE, is allowed to conduct activities in the Netherlands that TenneT is not allowed to do in Germany? This while TenneT may exchange shares with the transmission system operator of RWE. I can't explain it; I hope the Minister will be able to explain it later. Finally, on this point, I fear that, despite all the safeguards, this article opens the door to further privatisation. International cooperation with other system operators should be possible in other ways. Stock structures aren't the only way to do this. That is why GroenLinks also supports Mr Klever's amendment. Cables are another issue that is regulated by this law. It's a good thing it's happening, but it's a matter of national interest, not of municipal interest. Some municipalities have large fossil power stations or energy nodes; other spokesmen have already said so. In Geertruidenberg, for example, there is a coal power plant that currently supplies coal power to millions of households. Why would Geertruidenberg have to pay 3.2 million to get cables underground? The possible adverse health effects of high voltage lines justify a community taking care of the wiring. It is an interest of all electricity consumers and therefore the costs must be borne by all electricity consumers together, without any additional burden on that one municipality where such an installation happens to exist. I have made an amendment on this point and, of course, I ask the House to support it. I would like to see the rules leave room for a role for grid operators in the energy transition. We do not know how such a transition takes place, there are a lot of uncertainties in that, but if you push the role of the grid operator into a rather tight straitjacket, you might regret it later. Smart opportunities and innovations that we would like to have are suddenly no longer possible. An example of this is the use of batteries from electric cars for storage during peak production. I understand that the Minister has had a number of discussions with Elon Musk of Tesla on this subject, but in this case too, the Minister may look for the ideal mix between the market and the grid as far as GroenLinks is concerned. For GroenLinks, it is important that we speed it up, so that it goes fast. Depending on the Minister's response, I will come up with a motion to experiment on this point. GroenLinks also wants more room for local initiatives by citizens and businesses, to invest together in the production capacity they want to use locally. Many of these initiatives run counter to rules. In the run-up to the next STROOM proposal in 2017, I would like to have a short-term evaluation of the existing experimental space and the bottlenecks that experiments encounter, so that we can repair it if necessary. I come to speak about the definition of "connection." Mr Vos also mentioned this. It could be very useful to have multiple connections to one WWTP address. The Minister and I opened a solar panel project in schools together in Arnhem. The school has a connection and the corporation whose panels are on the roof had to have another connection. In those situations, that might be useful. It would therefore be a pity to rule that out in advance. How's that second connection for the postcode rose scheme? Can the Minister confirm that that is possible under STROOM? Or do we need changes? I would like to see the possibility of a producer tariff returning to the law. Consumers are now paying for a net that needs to be drastically increased. With the emergence of increasingly decentralised production and a combination of consumers and producers, it is good to leave this possibility open and introduce a producer tariff. Within the EU, a producer tariff is common. Has the Minister had discussions with the European Commission on the exemption of network tariffs for producers? Could this be state aid, as proposed by Saskia Lavrissen, Professor of Economic Regulation and Market Governance of Network Industries? In view of these questions, it seems to me very good to leave the possibility open. We have an amendment for this too. I am pleased if this proposal will ensure that windmills are built at sea next year. I very much hope that the law will be amended on six or seven points.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u99	Mr. Chairman. Today we are talking about a very important bill on the regulation of our hardware, the Dutch gas and electricity grid, including the split. That explains why there were so many people in The Hague today to make it clear its importance. Former Minister Brinkhorst defended the bill in the Lower House in 2006. Even when submitting this bill, the group ban, the ban on ownership in one group of a regional network management company and a production, trade or supply company, was controversial. At the time, there was a great deal of faith in an equal European market for which we had to protect the Dutch public domain. In the end, the group ban was introduced and introduced in 2007. At that time it seemed that the Dutch energy companies would also invest abroad. The possible adverse effects of investments abroad were decisive for regional network operators not to be part of the group with the trade, production or supply branch. The group ban was subsequently challenged before the courts in connection with possible conflict with European law. The operation was suspended for a long time until June this year the Supreme Court declared that the group ban was not contrary to European law. For the CDA it is now important to look again at the facts. First of all, it is important to note that the CDA still has the criticism it had in 2006. Our Member, Mr Hessels, said that we should not anticipate Europe; should we now take steps that go beyond what Europe prescribes? We should not put our Dutch companies on sale. Nevertheless, there is still a risk of a sale of Dutch companies to European energy giants, according to my colleague in 2006. The Netherlands is the only country in Europe with a group ban on regional network operators. The Netherlands walked and walked so far before the music that it still hasn't caught up with us ten years later. It doesn't look like this is gonna happen either. The result is that the Dutch energy companies are lagging behind due to the split. We see the effect of this on the Dutch market, where foreign players in particular are active. These foreign energy companies have a major advantage over the Dutch market players, because they have the value of the networks they own in their own country on the balance sheet and can thus benefit financially when investing in renewable energy, for example. We now see that there is no equal European energy market. The market in which it was believed in 2006 appears to have unpacked quite differently. In the European Union, the integrated energy companies, i.e. the energy companies with a network, have power. While these energy companies in their own country argue for integrated companies to have the future, they want the group ban to be enforced in the Netherlands. As you know, forcing the group ban on the last two Dutch integrated energy companies will have far-reaching consequences. We heard that Eneco will have to fire many people and that the company will be able to invest significantly less in renewable energy because of this unfair European competition. The consequences are also enormous at DELTA. This is probably going to cost a lot of jobs in an already fragile region. That's what the CDA cares about. The Minister states in his reply that this cannot be directly due to the division. Does he not see that the large undivided European companies have a financial advantage over the Dutch companies to be split up? I'd like to hear a response from the Minister. Another disadvantage of the split is that the Minister himself may create a problem for the Borssele nuclear power plant, while no one asks him to do so. What directions does the Minister see for these problems which he himself has created? The CDA believes that it is important for our country in the context of the energy mix to keep the entire knowledge chain, including on nuclear energy, in the Netherlands. Does the Minister share this view? The CDA wonders whether the split is really necessary to ensure independent energy management. Even without the division, the present law imposes high requirements on the establishment, tasks and obligations of the operators of distribution networks. In the answers to written questions on the ruling of the Supreme Court of 25 June, the Minister states that the division is proportionate to the purpose, namely the security of supply. He doesn't support this, by the way. Moreover, he suggests that it would be a proportionate measure according to the court. I would like to point out to the Minister that the Supreme Court has ruled that the measure is not contrary to European law. That is something other than the motivation on the basis of which Minister considers the group ban on distribution networks to be proportionate. I would therefore like to ask him why other measures, such as requirements, conditions and tasks as were previously available, would not provide sufficient guarantees for this security of supply. In addition, I have just said to Mr Vos.............................................................................................................................................................................. For the security of supply, according to the CDA, it is currently not necessary to enforce the split. In the context of a level European playing field, forcing a division has negative consequences for the two remaining integrated Dutch energy companies. Then the question arises as to why the Minister is so keen to take these last Dutch integrated companies. On the basis of the current facts, the CDA does not see the need to do so. That is why I am asking the Minister not to allow Article 4.6 (6) to enter into force. Is he willing to do this? I also hope that the Chamber will realise that further forcing division is really undesirable at the moment. The CDA Group is therefore in favour of Mr Smaling's amendment to this very important point. Suppose today it appears that there is a majority in this Chamber that supports the Minister in his proposal for division. Is he prepared to discuss with the province of Zeeland the consequences of this forced division, as expressed by the Provincial States in a motion unanimously adopted last Friday? We would like to hear a response from the Minister on this point. Let me now turn to other points which are important for the consideration of this bill. First, the designation of TenneT as the transmission system operator of the offshore network. By this provision the present bill with steam and boiling water has to pass through the Chamber. Then I wonder how the Minister came up with the idea that the designation of TenneT in the STROOM bill would not lead to delays, as he indicated in reply to written questions. As far as the CDA is concerned, TenneT's designation could have been made to the Lower House in a separate proposal earlier. Why this complicated amendment of the law? I would like to receive a reply from the Minister, because it is very doubtful whether this bill can be adopted on time if it is adopted at all. Does the Minister expect this law to be dealt with in both chambers and can be submitted for a further four weeks for a possible consultative referendum before 1 January 2016? I'm also complimenting the Minister. It is good that he will keep a separate record of the costs of the network at sea by TenneT and that he will inform the Chamber periodically. Does he mean by periodic information every six months? How does he look at that? With this minister, I have often had an exchange of views on the costs of TenneT building and managing the network at sea. EUR 3 billion would be saved. That's a very large amount of money. We would like to hear whether that is still a real amount. We will continue to discuss the overall consideration of the costs of wind at sea, including the costs of wind on land, for coastal municipalities by placing the windmills within the twelve mile zone when considering the change to the National Water Plan. I tabled a motion on this subject together with Mr Van Veldhoven of D66. We like to hear how these plans are going. Last week we were informed that Germany and Denmark chose to connect their nets at sea in a pilot. The CDA has often asked for as efficient an international network as possible at sea. Does the Minister see this? Could he inform the House of Representatives after consultation with TenneT about this international German network at sea? The CDA would also like the new electricity and gas laws to be future-proof for more decentralised and sustainable energy supplies. Many colleagues have already spoken about this today. With the temporary tasks the Minister wants to meet this, but on other fronts there seems to be little news under the sun. In fact, the producer tariff hook has been removed from the law by the Minister. A producer tariff could mean that not only the buyer but also the supplier could contribute to the network. In view of the cost-effectiveness principle, it might well be appropriate for energy producers to contribute in a certain way in the future. Even though it is not necessary at the moment, it would be good to include this hook in the law. Can the Minister agree to a hook for a possible future application of a price incentive for producers? I have spoken with the Minister earlier about dynamic consumer tariffs or fifteen-minute rates. Dynamic consumer tariffs could lead to energy savings for consumers. This bill does not prevent the emergence of dynamic consumer tariffs, which I want to be very clear about, but I understand that this could apply to underlying codes, which are being worked on. These underlying codes would work again on the basis of profiles. That's right, that's how I ask the Minister. Does this prevent the emergence of dynamic consumer tariffs? As it turned out during the debate on the roll-out of the smart meter in the course of 2016, the Minister still expects us to hope that dynamic tariffs will be offered in 2016. Maybe he can explain that. The CDA sees benefits of the legislative proposal for the possible temporary tasks for system operators. For the CDA, it is important to keep an eye on the responsibilities of system operators and infrastructure companies, and the functioning of the market. In our view it is important that the AMvBs are submitted to the First and Second Chambers on the basis of Articles 4.14 and 5.34 before they enter into force. Can the Minister undertake to do this? It is unclear what the Minister means in his response to local congestion management by system operators. On the one hand, he says that system administrators can decide to place a battery instead of weighing up the grid. On the other hand, he states that the system operator is not allowed to return the power from the battery to that grid. What form of cooperation does the Minister propose and how can it be developed efficiently? In response to written questions about the AMvB in the legislative proposal, the Minister replied that he would investigate dynamic or flexible transport tariffs. Could the Minister further inform the Chamber of the design of this investigation? Other options for congestion management on networks should be sought. Is it also considered, for example, the possibility of purchasing it through the market, for example through flexibility services? Does the Minister think that's a viable system? I would like a more detailed explanation from the Minister. For large energy customers, it is important that they can check on which the tariffs they have to pay are based. In the current law, the amendment Spies/Jansen has been tabled and adopted in order to gain more insight into this. The bill no longer requires the system operator to provide detailed information. We would like to hear the Minister's views on this. Then I'll get to security of supply. The CDA is concerned about the extent to which exceptions are allowed to the single malfunction reserve provided for in Article 5.4. It's getting a little technical, but we need to talk about it. The fact that costs are saved by allowing exceptions to n-1 is of course good, but this should be done responsibly. The CDA wonders whether the failure reserve for rail systems, Article 5.3 (3) (c) and (d) should not be maintained. Behind rail systems there are often several large customers. In this way, the system administrator is given a great deal of freedom to assess the degree of reliability he builds in. I would like a response from the Minister on this point. In addition, the CDA fraction considers it very important that the power failures are reported in any case. Over the past four years, a number of these larger failures have occurred. The duty to report on power failures is not currently regulated by law or by AMvB. There is also nothing arranged about an independent investigation into a major power failure. According to the Minister, should transmission system operators and system operators report on the power failures? Does the Minister agree with the CDA Group that there should be an independent investigation in the event of power failures of a certain magnitude? The CDA Group has great difficulty with the current distribution of costs in connection with wiring lines. Other groups have already mentioned this and my colleague, Mr Geurts, has often drawn attention to this in previous debates. The law now states that the requesting municipality must always bear 25% of the costs itself. The CDA Group agrees with a threshold amount, but considers that this should be related to the capacity, size of the municipality and the population. It must be proportionate and just. This is because small municipalities are very difficult to finance wiring in this way. Then I come to my final point: the experimental clause. In the previous period, the CDA tabled an amendment on this subject. The Minister has further developed this himself. How many licences have been issued for experiments? The experimental assessment brings us to a concrete example. For many years in the Frisian village of Reduzum, a very large group of people have been active with renewable energy. The inhabitants have benefited from their own windmill for years and now want a new mill. They really want to use the energy of that mill in the village themselves and want to enter into an experiment with the network manager. The CDA asks the Minister to give space to this beautiful initiative from the bottom up of society and to explore the possibilities. I think it is a good idea for GroenLinks to evaluate the experimental space in 2017, so that we can see what types of experiments have been, where it has been pinched and where improvements can be made. Then we can take the right measures with the STROOM Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u100	Mrs Dik-Faber's third interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u101	It's a good thing you remind me of that, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u102	It's also your last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u103	Yes, very important. I have a question about the previous point, the wiring of municipalities. I welcome the broad support that seems to exist in the Chamber to remove the present arrangement. That's an absolute win. If I go along with the CDA's thinking, we'll look at the specific situation per municipality. Are we not putting the municipalities in a difficult position by having to negotiate with the Ministry of EZ on what threshold amount it should be?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u104	For the CDA, that 25% really is a no-go. There's no way we should be doing this. We all know the examples of the municipalities. They have all been very active to show us clearly, even before in the process, what they can and cannot wear. One municipality can sometimes have a little more and has more to offer than the other. I'd like to give that space, too. That is why I have an amendment in preparation, which will undoubtedly come to the Chamber one of these hours. So I'd like to give you that space. I do not want to sit in advance on that 5% that the Christian Union is on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u105	I'm a little disappointed about the latter. This 5% is a threshold that is realistic for municipalities and can be achieved by society. It is about one and a half euros for a household and a few tens for an SME. So it is certainly realistic. I am glad that at least we are going to get rid of that 25%; that is an absolute gain. But if I go along with the idea of the CDA, for example, municipalities that have put in a reserve could switch over rather than municipalities that have not done so for any reason, for example because their financial position is different or because there are other issues. This creates a huge inequality between municipalities, which forces them to look at each situation and enter into negotiations with EZ.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u106	Your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u107	How workable is the CDA proposal? I would like to have an explanation of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u108	The CDA states that if you give them certain possibilities and transfer certain legislation, as you see on a lot of files, you give them the space to make those considerations yourself. That is no different at this point. If you, as a municipality, are willing to do more and make a different assessment, you must have that freedom of policy. I do not think that we should say in advance to a congregation: yes, but it is always so. I'd like to have that space in there. To be honest, I do have confidence in the Ministry that it will deal with this in a very appropriate way. While I'm expressing that confidence, I'm gonna take a look at the minister. I hope he will deal with how he intends to deal with it towards the municipalities. I await his answer to that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u109	You were at the end of your speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u110	Yes. Spacious in time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u111	Yes, well within time. I call Mrs Klever from the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u112	Mr. Chairman. The PVV has difficulty with the government-imposed, forced energy transition. Experience in the former Soviet Union with a planned economy, in which the government plays a central role, suggests that the outcome of a government-imposed energy transition will be an expensive and poorly functioning energy supply. The current draft law STROOM does not answer the core of the issue: how do we keep the energy supply in the Netherlands reliable and affordable? These concerns also apply when it comes to decentralised energy. Around 1 million households are expected to generate their own energy by 2020. The PVV has nothing against this development, except for the huge subsidy flow, but unfortunately it has to note that the development causes organisational and financial problems on the network. With this bill, the government proposes that there should be a little experimenting to see what is the best method. This is in itself more sensible than making choices that turn out not to work afterwards, but the fundamental problem is that you first have to experiment and then start an energy transition. Why does the government not yet have a solution for the integration of large-scale decentralised energy into our network, while its policy is geared towards this? What consequences does this have for security of supply if the experiments do not provide a solution or fail? If network operators estimate the cost of network adjustments to be between EUR 20 billion and EUR 71 billion, a wise driver concludes that the necessary knowledge for a transition is total and completely lacking. In such a case, you don't throttle, but you stand on the brake. Can the Minister indicate how he guarantees the reliability of our energy network in relation to the possibility of experimenting with the network? A second problem concerns the cost of this energy change. I've mentioned this before. If 1 million households will not or will hardly pay any more towards energy taxation and storage of renewable energy, what will the cost-sharing look like? In response to our questions, the Minister confirms concerns about the fact that subsidies on decentralised energy lead to an enormous transfer of wealth from poor to rich. Research carried out by Nature & Environment shows that, in particular, residential housing for households with an above average income is higher in solar energy generation. Moreover, most of the use is made of the netting system, which virtually exempts these people from the storage of renewable energy. How long does this government maintain this canal belt subsidy? I would ask this Minister, but especially the PvdA and the SP. Even for sustainability reasons, I would say to my colleagues that the netting system prevents people from investing in storage, because it pays to deliver back as much as possible. In short, the network polluters only have the lusts and Henk and Ingrid carry the burdens. Can the Minister indicate how long this situation is still acceptable to him? That's not all, because if you can, Henk and Ingrid also have to adapt their behavior to the whims of the new energy system. As the director of Netbeheer Nederland recently pointed out: "The obviousness of electricity disappears quickly. If there is little supply of solar energy and wind energy, electricity must become much more expensive, so that customers adapt their use accordingly. A consumer can then decide to wait with the washing machine turned on." Total madness, of course, which aside from a few hobbyists nobody is waiting for. Can it already be seen that our older people must first look at an app to see if they can afford to turn on the washing machine? The Minister stated in his written reply that there is always a choice for a fixed rate, but if that fixed rate goes up with the peak rates, the price is still paid for the unstable energy supply caused, in particular, by wind farmers and people with solar panels. The PVV is concerned that these people, including many older people, are facing an ever higher bill. The PVV therefore wants the Minister to ensure consumer protection, with the price for a flat rate on an annual basis not substantially different from a variable price contract. Is the Minister prepared to do so? Another concern with regard to this law is the transition from gas to all electric or heat. The General Measure of Governance of this Act provides that the ACM may designate areas where no gas network is renewed. There is something to be said for itself, but the written answer shows that there is still no idea on the basis of which criteria this is taking place. Even more important is how the costs of the conversion of existing houses with a gas connection are distributed. This is what the minister wants to leave to municipalities and network operators, but the PVV finds that unacceptable and irresponsible. People can face unexpectedly high costs if they themselves have to pay for replacement of central heating boiler and all kinds of equipment. I therefore ask the Minister to draw up a clear national rule to protect people from the cost of rebuilding their homes. I would like to receive a response from the Minister to this problem. Network operators and energy companies also need clear national rules. Apparently, this bill did not succeed. There is already a disagreement between grid operators and energy companies, for example, about the activity of energy exchanges. Network operators consider that a welcome addition to their tasks and energy companies consider that this should be reserved for market players. Netbeheer Nederland already reports that case law has to show where the limits of the law lie. It seems more convenient for the PVV to indicate these limits. Is he willing to do this? The STROOM Act does not take sufficient account of the consequences of the energy transition for the people of this country. The same applies to wind on land and at sea. According to this law, system operators may incur costs for connecting wind farms at sea for which no investment decisions have yet been taken. As far as PVV is concerned, this is a major risk. Although there is an energy agreement, with the support of the entire Chamber minus the PVV, but as long as the arrival of a wind farm is not irrevocable, the PVV cannot anticipate the cost of connecting the network, for which we are all paying the bill. Soon millions of euros of high-voltage lines will be built for a wind farm that may never happen. The PVV thinks that's a waste of community money. In order to ensure the correct order of things, the PVV has therefore tabled an amendment. Can the Minister provide a substantive response to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u113	I would like to return to what Mrs Klever said in her speech. She is concerned about the lusts and the burdens, where Henk and Ingrid are particularly burdened. By the way, I think that Fatima and Mohammed are also on the sidelines and not on the sidelines. Why does Mrs Klever not see anything in the SP's speech to fight for each other every year, when you put together the purchasing power plates, by intervening in the first disc? If I listen carefully to Mrs Klever, she says with every part that the PVV is not for: I prefer not to. But then you're gonna knock out the whole innovation. I can't imagine Mrs. Klever being for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u114	With regard to low income relief, the SP finds the PVV on its side. We also always argue for lower taxes, including in the General Financial Reviews and the treatment of the Tax Plan. Here, however, it is a question of creating a subsidy that mainly goes to the people with higher incomes. Especially people with a more expensive purchase house, people with a purchase house and a slightly higher income benefit from the subsidies on solar energy. They do not contribute to the investments needed to prepare the network for this. The other citizens, who are therefore unable to benefit from these subsidies and cannot benefit from solar power, pay the bill. That seems to me to be the wrong way of doing things. Even Nature & Environment has said this is a transfer of wealth from poor to rich. I don't understand why the SP goes along with that, that the SP doesn't object. It's a little gratuitous to say it has to be done with the Tax Plan. The tax plan is not going to happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u115	I agree with Mrs Klever that this transfer from poor to rich is not desirable, she said the other way round. Mrs Klever spoke to me and the spokesman for the Labour Party. It seems to me that it is more effective to arrange it once a year and then to ensure that people who are unable to pay for these things do not get caught up in it either. If there are really big mistakes in the system, such as the transfer of wealth from poor to rich, then you can still intervene. However, I get the impression that the PVV wants to intervene on all points in this law and in the energy transition that the PVV does not like. I don't think that's effective. I say this in response to Mrs Klever's firm but friendly hint towards the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u116	The PVV has never made it a secret that it doesn't like this energy transition because of the expensive bills that are going to pay mainly the low incomes. It is they who profit least from it. I look forward to seeing the SP's plans to redistribute the burden. On this file, however, I have never seen it. I regret that, because here we have the opportunity, if we get a majority for that, to ensure that low incomes are not increased. But that is not possible every time, because I do not get any support for it. I think that's a missed opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u117	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u118	No one's waiting for high-voltage lines above his apartment. That is why the Minister comes up with a buy-out and a wiring arrangement. A lot of people have been waiting for that for years, so that's good. However, this also raises many questions. In the brief written answer we hardly received a reply to that. The government has no answer to the questions about health risks and the justification for the cost allocation. It is also unclear what happens to people who do not live directly under high voltage masts or people who have to deal with a situation in which the municipality does not cooperate with cabling. We would also like to answer the question of whether it is true that it is not possible to buy out if the municipality does not remove the destination, as we can read in the budget. I would like to receive a response from the Minister on these points. We are in favour of the amendments tabled by the Christian Union and GroenLinks which adjust this cost allocation. Finally, I come to cross-participants, or perhaps we should say that we are losing our high-voltage grid and our gas network abroad. The PVV believes that this crucial infrastructure should remain in Dutch and public hands, hence our amendment to this. Because what added value does it have to sell this? Why should we allow foreign parties to take part in our decision on our gas and electricity network? What's wrong with the current situation? In his reply, the Minister stated that this would contribute to further Europeanisation, but did it not pre-empt European plans properly cause the whole problem of the division law? We have split our Dutch companies and sold them to undivided foreign companies. We have done this on the basis of European legislation, but now a ruling by the Supreme Court shows that this was completely unnecessary. Apart from this statement, this cabinet should be less concerned about what Europe thinks and ask itself a little more about what is good for the Netherlands. In this case it means a loss of 1,800 Dutch jobs at Eneco and DELTA if the split is pushed through by the minister. The PVV is therefore a co-signatory of Mr Smaling's amendment to prevent this unnecessary job loss.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u119	It's two-and-a-half. Either you think the nets should be public, or you shouldn't have a problem getting them into commercial hands. Because what if DELTA or Eneco is bought by a foreign energy company? That's where the network is. Does Mrs Klever think there should be a split, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u120	The PVV doesn't think there should be a split. The main shareholder of DELTA is a public shareholder, namely the province of Zeeland. So it's not an issue at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u121	There is a follow-up question from Mr Bosman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u122	This is very interesting, because Mrs Klever does not choose. It is clear: big words, but not choose. She uses very clear words about public networks. They need to stay public. The PVV is very clear: public networks. But once there's an outside investor who buys Eneco or DELTA, that's an option. It's just in that company. I would like to hear from Mrs Klever how to deal with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u123	Mr Bosman can do a good job here, but the fact is that 1,800 Dutch jobs are at stake because Mr Bosman wants to push through the division law. The VVD closes its eyes to that. I find that a disgrace. The PVV believes that the net should remain in Dutch hands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u124	Mr Bosman also wants to devote his second interruption to this little debate?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u125	Yes, Mr. Chairman, because I have a few more. Mrs Klever once again has strong texts about networks in Dutch hands. In addition, she talks about 1,800 jobs. That's serious and worrying, and it affects me too. But I also read the statements of the trade unions. Both FNV and CNV do not recognize themselves in the numbers and say that it is not clear where those numbers come from. Then how does Mrs Klever claim knowledge of these 1,800 jobs?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u126	I think Mr Bosman was just outside at the manifestation. Those 1,800 people were here on the Square, or at least a large part of them. These 1,800 jobs don't make up the PVV, you know. The companies Eneco and DELTA calculated that. They've explained that to you, too. I do not understand why you close your eyes to that, and that you, as a Zeeuw, dare to say: those 1800 orbits, we are simply pushing through that split!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u127	Through the chairman, please. I'm not gonna close my eyes to it anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u128	I do not understand why Mr Bosman can agree to a loss of 1,800 jobs at DELTA and Eneco, among others, by pushing through that split. The PVV has been against the bifurcation from the beginning. We also saw what the split brings. The energy companies that have split up have not been split up for a day, because almost on the same day they have moved into foreign hands of undivided companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u129	When the split took place everyone was cheering. Then everyone was fine and we didn't hear about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u130	The PVV didn't cheer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u131	Well, a lot of local parties have responded with enthusiasm. The PVV constantly calls here: 1,800 jobs! I dare ask Mrs Klever if all these jobs are guaranteed by the PVV if we do not split up.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u132	I suggest that Mr Bosman talk to the executives of Eneco and DELTA. They calculated and substantiated that. I find it a little strange that Mr Bosman here dares to question what those managements have calculated and told us. Now I'm going to go into the point where everyone was cheering when they had to split up. The VVD was cheering because there was a need to split up, but the PVV has always said: we should not do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u133	You will continue your speech, Mrs Klever.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u134	Yeah, rounding it up. This bill STROOM provides for clearer and simpler legislation, but our conclusion can only be that this bill does not respond to the consequences of the ill-thought-out energy transition. We recommend that the Minister reconsider whether a planned energy transition imposed by the government can lead to an affordable and reliable energy supply with some certainty. We're not convinced yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u135	That was neat in time. Big shots even! For your information: after Mr Bosman has spoken, it is the intention to declare the dinner break!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u136	I hope so, yes. Mr. Chairman. The energy world will shake its foundations over the next twenty years, says the CEO of Eneco. That's right. That's what the VVD has in mind. Looking back we see a huge battlefield behind us, an energy battlefield. While a power plant made a good living ten years ago, losses are now being made. In the worst case scenario, the power stations are even standing still. At the time of the construction of the power plants already started, society decided to focus more on the sustainable production of energy. We must take account of the future developments of much decentralised generation, sustainability and the achievement of climate objectives. Everyone always wants to be able to cook and stoke at a low price. In this battlefield, we must set the frameworks to ensure this. For this we discuss the bill STROOM, i.e. streamlining, optimizing and modernising the Electricity Act and the Gas Act. This is an important law to facilitate the changing energy market and achieve the objectives of the Energy Agreement. The major changes and innovations in the energy market will mean that we will have to discuss a law on electricity and gas again within ten years, but until then, the STROOM Act provides a good basis. In the field of energy, cooperation between private and public parties is very important. That is what we must set the framework for here. The VVD is always clear about it: it believes in a market-leading approach. Market players will pick up innovations and take advantage of the opportunities that exist. If the market does not pick it up or leave it, there may be room for system operators to experiment with innovation and solutions that would not otherwise be useful. They get this space from the law. As far as my group is concerned, it is very important that these experiments are limited in time. Moreover, they must not distort the functioning of the market. How do market players know about the needs or problems of a system operator, for example? How can they respond to this? Do these system operators put these problems and needs on the market and should they be placed there as a tender or can they be brought to the attention of the market through congresses or relevant articles? How do we prevent the system operator from moving too quickly to the experimental article because of a lack of knowledge in the market? Everyone wants to stoke and cook. A hot shower, hot food and a warm house are hard to imagine from everyday life. But what if you live on a remote island or in an enclosed area, for example in the lighthouse on Marken? People have the ability to live in that lighthouse in a unique location. Pulling a copper cable of sometimes 10 kilometers was often the solution so far, but that can be smarter. The system operator shall have a connection obligation. The cost of this is socialized over all connections. This can lead to socially undesirable costs. As a country of innovation, we can do this much smarter. I would like to ask the Minister whether the system operator can also opt for a solution that is smarter than pulling a copper cable. The market has the techniques for this, but the system operator should be able to look at the best solution in that market. The system operator must use this law to make the copper cable thicker if more capacity is needed on that cable. This too can be smarter and more innovative. The system operator should be able to provide information on energy saving options in order to prevent costly investments in capacity increase. System operators have a view of locations where energy savings can be viable in relation to the prevention of grid congestion. System administrators have access to privacy-sensitive data by reading energy meters. Such data must be provided by law to energy suppliers. The relevant article does not make it clear where the responsibility for protecting the privacy sensitive information lies with the energy suppliers. I would like to hear from the Minister that the responsibility lies with the company that leaks the data. The energy world will shake its foundations for the next twenty years. That's going to give great uncertainty in the energy world. All parties that think they can operate as in the past ten years are really wrong. With this uncertain future, the VVD believes that the best guarantee of future security of supply is to distance the network. By splitting the network from the energy company, the supply is separate from the production. Anyone can deliver on the net. This will occur much more often in the future with the emergence of own power generation per household or joint generation within corporations of people. These innovations will be given all the space on a network that is in public hands, accessible to all and that is not at risk of being pulled under water by an energy production company. Because energy production is under great pressure. A company like RWE is paying 10 billion dollars on its power plants. Vattenfall puts its lignite plants in the window for sale. DELTA is happy if soon its own coal plant will close. Energy production old style becomes a burden for companies. This burden will only increase in the future. The long-term credit rating of Vattenfall, a huge company, has gone from A- to BBB+. The further prospects are negative. So the creditworthiness of this energy giant is falling. This company's concerns about its energy production future are high. That same concern is there at DELTA. If we peel off the financial figures, we have to conclude that DELTA has turned a net loss on its core energy production activity. This loss is likely to increase in the future only because energy prices are increasingly under pressure. DELTA's profits also show a declining trend, partly because a good company, Indaver, had to be sold to remove debt. The CEO of DELTA wants us to believe that DELTA can continue on the old road. As I said before, the VVD has serious doubts about this. I believe that this CEO is failing the employees of DELTA and the inhabitants of Zeeland by pretending that nothing else is going on and indicating that splitting will cause enormous job losses. That job loss does not want to discuss the same CEO of DELTA with its largest shareholder, the province. So we have to believe him that those blackest scenarios are actually going to happen. 'Cause is that right? Both the FNV and the CNV indicate that the figures are exaggerated and that they cannot place them. We should not limit the discussion to two streams: if you are in favour of splitting, then you are against jobs and vice versa. That reasoning doesn't work. Things haven't been right at DELTA for some time and so far it's been an undivided company. As a Member of Parliament of Zeeland, who lives in Middelburg, I am, of course, concerned about employment in Zeeland. People from my neighborhood are working for or for DELTA. But Zeeland needs future-proof jobs, in a varied range. Many jobs can be preserved if DELTA splits. In this way, the profitable and profitable parts are not burdened with the growing debts of the energy production company, the network company with all its jobs is safe for the future and the security of supply for the Zeeuwen is guaranteed. I am truly convinced that the light will go out at DELTA if we do nothing. Then the lights also go out at all Zeeuws and that can of course never be the intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u137	Reports that the situation is sometimes a bit more nuanced, also come to the CDA group, but it is of course a difference whether you force your companies to split through legislation or whether you leave them the option to choose split. What's the VVD like in that choice? This law forces companies to split up and offers few other possibilities. How does Mr Bosman view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u138	This law was adopted by the Second and First Chambers in 2006. So the law's already there. The only thing that hasn't happened yet is enforcement. The law is there. Everyone knew that. Everyone has been able to anticipate that. A number of companies have made the choice to go commercial and split up the networks. The VVD believes that the networks should be absolutely in public hands and should therefore be separated. In fact, you should be wondering if the government should have shares in energy companies. Is that what you want? Do you want to be a shareholder in an energy company?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u139	The question of whether this is relevant or not can be addressed by Mr Bosman himself in his further speech. I am concerned about employment in Zeeland, but also in South Holland, where Eneco is threatened by this division bid. The question is whether you can look at it in another way. What is the VVD still prepared to do for employment in Zeeland, for example in connection with the motion that has been adopted there?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u140	As far as employment is concerned, we must be aware of the situation in Zeeland. Unemployment in Zeeland is low, but that's because people move away if they don't find a job. That's a low level of unemployment. What you need is employment. According to the VVD, it is best to create this with fewer rules, with investments, with connection to school and education. For those jobs of Eneco I look at the FNV, who does not see that danger. The FNV is not really a related club to the VVD, but it indicates that it has also seen at other divisions that not so many jobs are lost there. We must be careful to say that jobs are always lost. It's also the choices the shareholders make. You don't have to go straight to a foreign investor, you don't have to go to a foreign company. You can also think of a merger. Here too, it is the local shareholders who really have a lot of involvement in local employment and who absolutely have a big voice. Finally. In order to give Eneco and DELTA the space to come up with good solutions, I assume that the companies have scenarios ready, I ask the government to get in touch with the ACM to offer both companies that space. In a motion by the Provincial States of Zeeland and in a letter from the province, they are asked to do so. I think it would be a good idea to respond to that. In addition, the VVD believes that the position of the Borssele nuclear power plant should be clarified in this process. I ask the Minister whether he can promise that the solution to the nuclear power station position will also have the same high priority.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u141	That brings us to the end of the first term of office. I shall suspend the sitting for the dinner break, and also the time for the preparation of the response, to the extent that is still necessary for the govern ment. I wish you a tasty meal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u142	It's 9:00. We would now proceed with the debate, but the Minister has asked for an extra ten minutes to prepare for the comments on the amendments. I see Mr Vos shaking very consistently and firmly, but as President, I decide the order of the sitting and I allow it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u143	I'm reopening the meeting again. We will continue with the so-called Electricity and Gas Act, with the first term on the part of the government. I suggest we try to limit the interruptions to three in two. If there is an urgent reason for this, we can always consider whether there should be an appropriate regulation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u144	Mr. Chairman. I have been asked a lot of questions and a lot of comments have been made. So there are also a lot of opportunities for me to come up with information, answers and reactions to the Chamber. I imagine that, at the beginning, I will put down where the bill stands and what its importance is. Then I will move quickly on to the major point raised by all the spokesmen, namely the relationship with the division of companies Eneco and DELTA. I would then suggest that I take out a number of other major points to deal with. Then I will try to respond as best I can to the questions and comments of each of the spokesmen. This law is part of a larger legislative agenda, the legislative agenda STROOM. We first made a policy letter about what we all wanted to do and sent it to the Chamber. Then we put forward a draft bill of law STROOM to deal with a number of things that were really urgent. Then we put forward a bill to regulate the grid tariffs of the energy-intensive industry. We've come up with an experimental AMvB, a General Measure of Governance. Then we were ready to come up with a new Electricity and Gas Act, which we split into two parts. I'll come back to that in a minute. The aim of this whole legislative agenda is to achieve energy legislation that is clearer, simpler and less regulatory. That's something we all know needs to be done. We all have ambitions in this area and this legislative agenda can make an important contribution to this. A second, more importantly, point is that this legislation is also necessary to enable the transition to a sustainable energy economy. The third point is that legislation must facilitate that we remain a competitive economy. We consider the things that are at issue to be very important, but what we always think is important is that we maintain our prosperity and that we maintain our jobs. You do this by having a competitive economy and this legislative agenda can contribute to that. We have divided the new Electricity and Gas Act into two parts. The old Electricity and Gas Act was written in the time when it was really about enabling market forces. The choice then was to split the nets. Today we call that "the systems." The purpose of this division of production and supply was to allow the market to develop. I think that we have seen in recent years that this has worked very well. The market has developed very well. We must now take the next step, and that is the transition to renewable energy, a sustainable energy system. It must come off the ground and this law must contribute to it. The legislative proposal contains a streamlining, optimisation and modernisation of legislation. An important part of the legislative proposal is the transmission system at sea. That brings me to the question of why this bill is so urgent. We have a very big investment to make in windmills at sea. We have developed a plan for this and devised a specific approach. As a result, wind at sea can make a major contribution to the realisation of our ambition to have 16% renewable energy by the year 2023. For this we need to create five large coastal parks and a lot of money will have to be put into them. All kinds of companies must invest in it, but they must also make it technically possible. To get these companies, we have to do something. Not only the Netherlands wants to place windmills at sea, but Denmark, Germany, France, Belgium and England, as well as Scotland, which is still part of the United Kingdom, want to do so. Everyone is working on windmills throughout the North Sea. If we are to achieve our ambition of quickly setting up a large number of windmills, in relation to the 16% we want to achieve, then we need to have the confidence of the market players. They must trust that we know what we are doing, that we have a clear line and that we can make agreements. That is what this law is very important for. If this law is passed by the Second and by the First Chamber and if this happens in time, our plan for wind at sea, for which the Chamber has already passed a law, is entirely feasible. We can then do the first tender in good time. We also know that TenneT will do the connection of the windmills at sea. This means that the companies that are going to subscribe to the tenders need not have any uncertainty about this. If the law weren't passed, I wouldn't be able to point out TenneT. This creates uncertainty and requires companies to assess whether TenneT can still participate in the future. If that is the case, does that also apply to Borssele or does it only apply to the other places? Or should we take into account for all of this that TenneT may not do it because the legislator is not going through with what he has set in motion? This means that the companies that are going to participate in the tenders will take into account all the uncertainty. They will take into account that TenneT may not do it at all and that they will have to build the connection themselves. That is much more expensive, as we know, billions more expensive, than if we let the TenneT do with our standardized design. In short, we create a lot of unrest in the market and increase costs enormously. The result of not making this bill law in good time is that we are not going to achieve the 16% ambition by 2023 and that we are lagging far behind in our plans for wind at sea. This isn't a threat from me to the Chamber, but I'm just gonna tell the Chamber. With the coalition agreement and with the energy agreement, the Chamber agreed that the transition to renewable energy should be made in the short term. I have to do all that in practice. This is an important part of this. If this law didn't come into being, it would go wrong the way I just described it. The bill that we have now submitted to the Chamber did not just fall out of the sky. We have prepared it through an open and interactive process with the whole market and with all market players. This means that we have had talks with all the market players. There have been round tables where they were all together. We set up a discussion group on LinkedIn. We discussed the policy letter STROOM with everyone. It was also the result of all these conversations. The policy letter STROOM was drawn up on the basis of the discussions and then discussed again. We then consulted the legislative proposal before us, in which everyone was able to react separately. This has made it clear to everyone what we want and why we want it. Everyone has had their say in this, and we have given our reactions and made our choices. These choices are also understandable to the market players, and they can be overcome with this. I have thus indicated the importance of the entry into force of this bill as of 1 January 2016. It is not just a matter of wind, but also of a lot of other things, such as consumer protection, delivery, the codes of ACM and all such things, which are not included in this bill, but will be included in the second bill, which comes next. I have indicated what is included in this bill. I have also indicated the great importance of TenneT's designation, and the importance of this bill and the designation of TenneT for the realisation of the windmills at sea. For the matters that need to be dealt with in future, we will have the second legislative proposal, which will reach the Chamber once we have properly prepared it. I think it would be a good idea to deal with the issue of division now. I note in advance that this bill is not about division. If an amendment is not adopted and the Court then does not adopt this bill, it does not mean that the split will not go through. The split must take place on the basis of the Independent Network Management Act, the Won. If the non-acceptance of the Smaling amendment is followed by the non-acceptance of this bill, the division will continue because the Won applies. Mr Smaling announced that he would vote against the bill if his amendment was not adopted. The ratio of that escapes me completely. It doesn't get you anywhere before the split and before DELTA and Eneco. I refer to wind at sea and the renewable energy objective, on which the pressure has been increased even further because of Urgenda. The SP said that it is all very sensible and that more needs to be done than already stated in the energy agreement. However, with the possible rejection of this law, you are going to shuffle it all down. That cannot be the intention of Mr Smaling and the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u145	There are hundreds, maybe a thousand people around this building for a reason. From a very strict legal point of view, the amendment could also have its place in the Won's proceedings. It is clear, however, that there are enough brackets in this bill that make it legitimate to raise this issue. It is not for nothing that the amendment refers to a number of articles of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u146	There will be no treatment of the Won at all, because the Won has been law for years. That's a fact. There has also been a legal procedure leading to a ruling by the Supreme Court. That law is simply in force; there is no treatment of the Won at all. In a law dealing with something else, Mr Smaling states that the split must not continue. Then he can do it, but then he says: if the amendment is not adopted, I am voting against the law. I would point out that if the Court does not adopt this law, TenneT will not be designated, there will be great market uncertainty, there will be delays, there will be higher costs and the objective 16% of renewable energy will not be achieved by 2023, while there is also Urgenda's pressure to go further. It doesn't make sense that if you didn't get your way with the amendment, you would then vote against the bill. I urge you to separate both things. I understand you're standing up for your amendment. But if that doesn't make it, don't give me another blow. Imagine if wind at sea doesn't continue or slow down. There is a lot of employment attached to that. There is a fossil energy infrastructure in the Netherlands, including Eneco and DELTA. We need to build a new renewable energy infrastructure. The rejection of the bill would prevent the construction of that renewable energy infrastructure. Everywhere in the fossil energy sector, jobs disappear as a result of market conditions: in Germany and in the Netherlands, in all companies, integrated and not integrated. In the renewable energy sector, new jobs must be created, but that will stop you from doing so. That really wouldn't be good.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u147	I am aware of that. I said it in my term, too. Nor is it at all my wish that it undermines one another. However, the Minister might be thinking about making a change to the Won. The progressive understanding of the past ten years could encourage him to change the Won so that the amendment, which is actually also contained in the motion for a resolution by Mr Doek and Mr Sylvester and others, could be changed. (30212, H) comes, finds his way there. If he is willing to do so, this law does not have to be delayed. Otherwise, as a representative of the people, I do not have a legal basis for this issue. I hope the Minister realizes that it is my position to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u148	No. I don't see that at all. I see that Mr Smaling is exercising his right as a representative of the people to include in this law something that makes a decision on the division, the Won. He can do that, of course. If, however, the Chamber heard the debate, it would not be logical for it to say that it is going to vote against this law. I do not know who is punishing Mr Smaling with that. He doesn't punish me with that personally. He thereby punishes our ambition to reach the sustainable energy target by 2023. It won't work. It also punishes those who could get new jobs in achieving that renewable energy objective, including in Zeeland. It really doesn't make sense if you don't get what you want in one democratic way, then to go and do damage somewhere else. Once again, I strongly recommend that we discuss Mr Smaling's amendment together and that we look at what comes out of it. If it turns out that the Chamber will not support this, I hope that the SP, led by Mr Smaling on this dossier, would want to look at what is best for the Netherlands and for Zeeland, what is best for employment and what is best for renewable energy. That's what I'm arguing for.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u149	That's a warm invitation. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Mulder for an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u150	In my first term, I said that the CDA considers it important to bring this part of the law, the appointment of TenneT as a marine administrator, separately to the Chamber. The PvdA colleague mentioned this earlier in a debate, and I also mentioned it in one of the previous debates on energy. Why did the Minister choose to incorporate that into this law?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u151	Not only did I choose that, but so did the Chamber. We have dealt with the Law on wind energy at sea here and it is not in it. I found it more logical, like the Chamber as co-legislator, to do so on another occasion. This law is really about the things that the net is about at sea. It is logical that we have made this part of it. It wasn't in the other law, and the Chamber didn't bring it in either. She did not raise that point at the time either. The logic, legally, is present. The other law has already been dealt with here and now is the opportunity to decide on this important part. In order to achieve this great ambition to make that transition to renewable energy fast and to achieve really great results in the shortest possible time, it is necessary that legislation is put in place at a certain speed. That is why I am very pleased that the Chamber has now decided to deal with this today. I hope that we can deal with it today, or else as soon as possible. Then I hope the First Chamber does the same. Then I can get that tender to go ahead for Borssele, then I can put it at sea and then we can have those windmills run in 2023. If we do not, as legislators, these windmills are not going to turn in time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u152	How am I supposed to rhyme with the Minister saying here that it's not a threat, but that he's putting everything on the table in the meantime? That, of course, casts its shadow on this debate. Can he give a further explanation for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u153	Oh, yeah. I'm just telling you the facts here. I'm just saying it the way it is. It is as I have just said to Mr Smaling: if you see the amendment rejected and then you vote against the law, you achieve absolutely nothing and do nothing but damage. I say to Mrs Mulder that we did not include this in the previous law, the wind energy at sea. This makes sense. There's no other way to deal with it now but here. If we do not do so, the result is no different from what I have just said. That may not be pleasant to hear, but it is the truth. In the Netherlands, the legislator has opted for independent gas and electricity networks in government hands. This was not because the European Union or the European Commission wanted to do so, but because we consider these networks crucial for well-functioning energy production and supply markets. We saw changes in the energy market, which were finally decided by the Chamber in 2006, 2007. We said the following at the time. That's how we're gonna do it. We keep the nets in government hands. Then we let go of production and supply market forces. They must compete with each other and bear their own risks. Everyone may be on those nets. That guarantees the government. Then the consumer can benefit from the good networks, for which he pays a real price: only the price that these networks cost to be able to be there and to be kept up to date. Production and supply have as sharp a price as possible as a result of that competition. That is what we chose to do at the time. After that, the production and supply market developed much faster than we thought. We had already thought that it would be internationalised and that large European groups would be operating, but after that there were also many small, individual producers. In Germany you can see that strongly and you have many hundreds of thousands of local producers with solar panels, which instead of only decreasing the grid also deliver to the grid. But that also happens very quickly in the Netherlands. We already have 1 GW production of solar energy. That's tens of thousands of people. There's more and more of them. Here too, that market has changed. Furthermore, we also have the local cooperative energy production, which has started and which we are going to encourage further with the arrangements we have for this. Instead of these very large and very small there will also be some kind of intermediate form of producers. That is all going to end up on that market and must all be taken care of by these nets. Then it is very good that we can invest in these networks, that we do not run any risks with them, that the necessary investments are not higher than necessary, that their costs can be shared by the customers, and that the risks involved in the production and supply markets cannot be passed on to the networks. That is a consideration that was made at the time, which is still sensible and which I would still make if I had to make a proposal to the Chamber at the moment. In the coming years, network operators will face major challenges in order to achieve everything that comes to them. They can't have risks from delivery and production. These risks are still minor in the Netherlands. Although closing down five coal plants isn't nothing. Here in the Chamber there is also a call for all coal plants to be shut down, including those which have just been set up for 2.7 billion, 1.6 billion or for a similar amount and which will run this year. There's talk in the Chamber about shutting it down. This creates enormous risks for those energy producers and suppliers. And look what's happening in Germany. There the government has said the following. "All nuclear power plants must close down. The cost of that is yours to bear. The cost of the storage after that you have to carry yourself. So as a government, we decide that you shut down everything and the cost of it is yours." The result is that the rating of Vattenfall went back to BBB+, with a negative expectation, as we just heard from Mr Bosman. E.ON has the same BBB+ rating at the moment. And RWE is doing it right now with BBB without a plus. So that has a big impact on these companies. I don't know exactly how much RWE has dropped in value. Maybe I'll correct myself later, but first it was worth 170 billion and now 130 billion. That is the reduction that is taking place there. Energy production and supply companies are at considerable risk throughout Europe, including in the Netherlands. The question is whether you want those risks to be lowered on those nets. We don't want that. The cabinet doesn't want that. At the time, the legislator did not want that either. During the CDA/PvdA cabinet, Balkenende IV, that law was established, also supported by the CDA in Upper House and Lower House. After that, the law entered into force in 2008 under Mrs Van der Hoeven. We have all talked very well about this for several years, and we have come to the conclusion that we have to do it this way. Then there were two companies that did not want to accept this. They considered that the legislator could say so, but that they should not do so. Instead of focusing on enforcing the law, they went to trial. They did, and then they lost the procedure before the Supreme Court. The effect of this is that the law applies. There is therefore no longer any discussion at all as to whether or not that law is applicable following that decision of the Supreme Court and what the Supreme Court has formulated. That law is just applicable right now. That's just a fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u154	The Minister says that the energy transition has a major impact on energy companies, that a large number of large companies have greatly underestimated the speed of the energy transition, may have made wrong investment decisions and now have problems. Some of the companies mentioned by the Minister are companies that have networks abroad. It is also this minister who often says that we should look at the energy market as a European whole. So we can't just arrange it on a small scale for the Netherlands. We need to look wider. If a company as large as RWE is going down completely, then we also have a problem, whether it is split in the Netherlands or not? So shouldn't we be much wider? Should we not look more broadly than just at the Netherlands and defend on those grounds that the latter two companies in the Netherlands should be split up, because then we have safety and integrity of the networks in Europe?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u155	The difference is: I said it is important not to expose the networks to the risks of supply and production. There are Members of Parliament who believe that the last two companies in the Netherlands that have still linked it and which, in my opinion, do not make a profit or even suffer a loss at the moment on the supply and production should remain linked to the networks. Those MPs say this is better for the Netherlands, for employment and for other reasons. I say: look at Europe, look at what is happening in other countries where you have companies that are not split up like in the Netherlands. There you run a risk in the sphere of delivery and production. This could then have an effect on the networks. We in the Netherlands have taken that apart. They have not done so abroad, but it is not certain that foreign countries do so better than we do in the Netherlands. We have given this a lot of thought. We have a good reasoning underneath that. We have taken decisions on this at a number of stages, and we have chosen to do so. Except for two, all companies have carried out this. These two have gone through a procedure they've lost. Then it seems to me that the matter is clear and I see no reason to try to reverse the situation that we have deliberately created in the Netherlands and which I see at the moment that it may be better than in other countries with integrated companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u156	Compact follow-up question from Mrs Van Tongeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u157	The Minister and I share the view that networks should be safe not only in the Netherlands but throughout Europe. It should not be the case that an owner of a large piece of high-voltage grid suddenly goes down, so that such a net may no longer be available. But it is as bad for the Netherlands as it is for Germany or Belgium as it is when it happens in its own country. By ensuring that these last two companies in the Netherlands manage to do so, while there is a very good chance that they will then be taken over by integrated companies across the border, the problem will not be solved. We have an integrated European market. If we want to have a debate on how to guarantee safe nets, I think we should do something other than say: we guarantee safe nets in Western Europe by splitting DELTA and Eneco. How does the Minister view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u158	I'd like a compact reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u159	I am not about Western Europe, let alone Europe as a whole. I'm only about the Netherlands. I am implementing decisions that have been taken before, and I am doing so with conviction, because I still support them. We chose to split. I note that as a result of this split-up, there is no risk of the split-up of farms which only have the networks, the systems under them, as a result of what is happening in production and supply. We made that choice, and I think that was a good choice. Now we have the situation that two companies did not participate. They have lost their procedure and must now go along with it. That's good. Then we have a clear situation in the Netherlands. I also think that we have the most future-proof situation, given the arguments I have just mentioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u160	One of the reasons for the division law at the time was to ensure independent network management, which is always in public hands, the investments of which are made and cannot suffer from the commercial branch. I think all these interests are still crystal clear. The Minister is right to say that there is a law and that he is implementing it unless something changes that law. However, that law does not say that you have to split up, but that you can split up. That is why I think it is important to hear from the Minister where there is a gap in the current regulation, which contains all kinds of safeguards for independent network management, which must be complemented by the implementation of the group ban.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u161	Mrs Van Veldhoven is not right. It's not like the law doesn't tell you to split up. The law says you have to split up. The law requires that the networks should be in public hands and that the networks should not be in one group together with the supply of production. It's in the law. You can't do that. Mrs. Van Veldhoven says the Council of State doesn't say it has to. The Council of State is merely saying that the legislator was allowed to do what he did. That's what kept the law going. The law is in force. There can be no doubt about that. The law is currently in force for Eneco and DELTA. Now it is about how we deal with the enforcement of the law. I'd be happy to talk to the Chamber about that. The Won decrees that there should be split and the Council of State has left the Won standing, so that it now also applies to Eneco and DELTA.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u162	It's getting pretty late. The Minister is right on this point. The Council of State has said that the Minister can enforce the law. Then there's still one question. The current regulations contain safeguards in places other than the Won, which ensure that the network is in public hands. So what does the Minister think about the material addition of the Won in terms of independent network management? That remains a question when I see what is laid down in other legislation. I wonder where the hole the minister wants to cover by maintaining the Won is.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u163	I don't want to cover anything. I want a law that came into being after the Chamber came up with a motion in 2001 that this had to be done. Work was then carried out and it was decided to do so. It was then decided to bring the law into force. That was in 2008. That was seven years ago. The law has been in force for seven years. That law is a given to me. The law states that the networks must be in public hands, in public hands, and that the systems must not be in one group together with production and supply. I'm dealing with that simple fact. I am not at all concerned with the question of guarantees if it is otherwise, because I am dealing with the law. All these safeguards do not mean that production and supply are completely separated from the networks. That basic choice was precisely the essence of the Won, and that is a given to me. The outcome of the discussion of the Council of State is that it remains a fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u164	Mrs Van Veldhoven devotes her second interruption to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u165	The minister is right when he says he's implementing the law, but he's also the one who makes and amends laws. That's always a choice. If the Minister says that he does not consider it relevant at all what the Won adds to the other safeguards, then he does not make it clear to me what is still necessary to guarantee the independent network. I agree with the Minister that this should be done, but I ask him to respond to the substance of the question as to where things might go wrong. Like the Minister, I don't want those risks to exist. I'd like to hear from him where he sees those risks if he didn't maintain them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u166	It can't go wrong with the split because the Won, which has been in force for seven years, is just there. That's a fact. Everyone has to stick to that. In the Won, it is not only firmly stated that the networks should remain in public hands, but also that the networks should not be in one group with production and supply. So I don't need any more guarantees. They are irrelevant because this is already in a law. That is the starting point for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u167	We must be careful not to confuse objectives and means in this discussion. The goal was very clear; the means chosen for this is the Won. Now the Minister says he's holding on to this drug because he's holding on to it. But I'm asking him what the other means are missing, which means he can't provide for the purpose. That's the question. I'm not asking if the law is the law, because we know that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u168	I'm not saying I'm holding on to a cure because it's a cure. I'm not saying I'm implementing that law because that law is there. I say that I agree with the way in which the law is created and the purpose of the law. If that law weren't there right now, I'd like to file a law like that. I think it is very sensible to keep these nets separate. I say that in the Won it says that you cannot have the nets, the production and the delivery in one group. That is wise because it does not allow the nets to carry the risks of production and delivery. That's settled clearly. Then I will not be able to see what other safeguards are still possible. This is not the case because it is there, it is very clear and it is still very useful.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u169	Surely you can't close your eyes to the fact that the current situation is substantially different from when the law was passed? The European Commission is literally saying that it is disproportionate. The companies that are split are part of foreign companies with networks. Network operators such as Stedin or DELTA Network Company are just as safe as Liander and Enexis because of the legislation we now have. If you add all that together, it's a whole bunch of reasons that give enough reason to say: we shouldn't do that. Whether it requires an amendment to the Won or an amendment to this law, I don't care. I understand that this is something else for the Minister, but it is legitimate to talk about it now, given the way in which the situation has evolved?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u170	It's very legitimate. The only thing I find very debatable from a material point of view is that Mr Smaling is going to vote against the law if he does not get his way with his amendment. However, the Won remains in force. So nothing happens when he votes against this law. The only thing he achieves with it is that we drive the transition to renewable energy in the wheels. So I don't see the logic of that. The European Commission has adopted a directive on this matter. What we are doing in the Netherlands simply fits into that directive. Mr Smaling says that it is as safe for the different companies in the Netherlands as it is for DELTA and Eneco. I dare to doubt that. As well as in Germany the integrated companies run risks, which may be passed on to the networks, this can be the case in the Netherlands with DELTA and Eneco. I believe that the networks are safer for independent system operators, who do not run the risk of getting into trouble as a result of trade-related considerations in another sector, production and supply. This cannot happen with the separate independent grid companies that we have in the Netherlands, which deliver to 5 million households. This risk is present in the 2 million households supplied by DELTA and Eneco, due to the still existing integration.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u171	I continue to be amazed at this steepness. The boss of RWE, Mr Terium, has clearly said that the future is up to the integrated company. How does the Minister feel about that? If you see the reasons for not going down this road now, how much unrest it causes in this region and in Zeeland and all the arguments that advocate not going down this road, I do not understand why the Minister is so persistent in this. If he would not like me to use this law for this purpose, I invite him to make a proposal to come to an agreement. Then, as far as we're concerned, the rest of the law can go on without any problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u172	That whole law isn't about splitting. Splitting is regulated by another law and has been in force for seven years. The Supreme Court has also expressed its views on this issue, so that is a long time ago. This law is about whether or not we can realise wind at sea in time. Mr. Smaling connects everything. He can do that with this amendment, but if he does not then manage with that amendment it would be very illogical, and I can also use other words to prevent the development of wind at sea. I am very grateful to Mr Terium, by the way. I think it's very handsome to have a career and run a company as big as RWE. I do not think he is the cause of the problems either, but one time Mr Terium is cited as someone who is wrong and the next time as someone who is right. It's also a little selective thinking.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u173	Perhaps it is good not to talk about people who cannot be part of the debate at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u174	Let me just say that the future is not up to the integrated business. I think that the future is for the independent grid companies that always remain in government hands and are always available and that the production and supply of the network is aimed at optimum market functioning. Especially at the moment, as we are going through the transition to renewable energy, the companies that receive the blows for production and supply on the fossil market can recover in the production and supply of renewable energy. We must allow that to happen. Mr Terium's company also contributes to this. To illustrate this, I note that the integrated companies, like Eneco and DELTA, are investing heavily in renewable energy. If Eneco and DELTA didn't do that, they still will. It goes on because the transition to renewable energy is a given. Everyone knows that, and the companies know that. They're not gonna get off that path.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u175	However, I would like to clarify the advantages and disadvantages of division and privatisation. Part of what the Minister says sounds a bit like a little brave country on the North Sea that continues to resist. This law requires that the network operator must be owned by municipalities or provinces, which prohibit privatisation. In this context, I refer to Article 93 of the Energy Act and Article 4.8 of the STROOM Act. Well, that's already locked up in there, right? Or am I not getting it now?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u176	We have the law on independent grid management that is in force, don't we? That's a given, isn't it? It already regulates everything in terms of independent laws, government hands and not being in one group. Mrs Van Tongeren may bring in other legal provisions where she has a guarantee, but there is no relevance to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u177	Mrs. Van Tongeren?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u178	Another comment by Mrs Van Tongeren was about that little brave country on the North Sea. That was in such a tone of "who the hell are we?" But this is the country where children are the happiest, where prosperity is almost highest and which is fifth place of competitive economies of the world. So we are a serious country, trying to regulate things properly and responsibly in our own country. One of the things that we want to regulate properly and responsibly is the transition to renewable energy: 16% by 2023. Vote against this bill goes against that transition to renewable energy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u179	If the Minister doesn't appreciate my joke, I won't. My only point was that we are the only ones in Europe who choose this solution. Of course a country can do that. I too am extremely proud of the Netherlands. I hope that other countries will also be able to achieve that level of prosperity. For that, we need to implement that energy transition. We agree on that. Our difference of opinion lies elsewhere. Is it really not possible to set it up in this way within a company, in my opinion, we do so in all kinds of places, that the public task is well shielded from the private task? Once again, I do not understand the Minister, who very often says that the energy market is European. If we want a head on it or something else in the Netherlands, then the argument is always that we have to fit in with the European system. Now the Minister deviates, and suddenly it can be done in the Netherlands. Can the Minister reflect on that? When is the argument: it should all be European? When's Dutch? Can't that happen within a holding company with a good dividing line between them?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u180	Asked when it is Dutch and when it is European. We make our own decisions. However, we are also part of the European Union. If there are European rules, then we have to abide by them. For this subject there is European regulation. With our interpretation of that, we stay in there. What risks do you run or not? Eneco and DELTA say: we want to remain an integrated company, because that way we can have a good rating thanks to the network company and we can finance our supply and production well and cheaper. That's their thesis. They say: if we are one big company and can rely on the networks to a large extent, then we can benefit from it by financing the other cheaper. Of course, it works the other way around. If something is done with production and delivery that goes completely wrong and then the company gets into financial trouble, then not only production is in financial trouble but the whole company, including the networks. Then the company has to find a solution for that. One possible solution is to charge more for those who use the nets. None of that is the intention. I want, the legislator has wanted and the cabinet now wants us in the Netherlands to have the situation that, in all circumstances, the nets remain in government hands. Furthermore, we want everyone who produces and supplies, which is as good, smart and sensible as possible, to compete with everyone else and to ensure that consumers and companies that consume electricity and gas can benefit from the lowest possible prices.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u181	The Minister continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u182	There is, of course, more to the split. Eneco and DELTA are long-standing companies. The people there are working very hard to run these companies properly. This applies to the workers on the floor, but this also applies, of course, to management, who feels responsible for their own business and wants to act as well as possible. I have great appreciation for that. I understand that. However, I have opposed what I have just said. I am convinced that it is in the general interest, and ultimately in the interests of the companies that are somehow active in this sector, that we are dealing with this as we arranged it seven years ago and that we are not. If Eneco and DELTA are taken apart, this could have an impact on how these companies are financed. However, I cannot see the extent to which this has an effect. Indeed, in the new situation, for example, in the case of DELTA, the province of Zeeland and the Zeeland municipalities remain the owner of the former network company of DELTA and of the production and supply company. They then own them both and that also gives them a certain rest in the financing market. Moreover, if the province of Zeeland and the municipalities receive dividends from the network company, to which they are entitled because they have money in it, they may use that money in all kinds of ways. They may use it for the renewable energy transition. They can also use it to invest extra money in the production and delivery business, of which they also have the shares. It's up to all of them. If Eneco and DELTA are just going to comply with the Won, I do not know exactly what the impact will be on companies and on employment. I'm not the only one who doesn't know that. Others have also spoken about this, such as the province of Zeeland and the trade union movement. We need to see how this works out in the end. I would, of course, like to talk to the companies about this. I have also spoken to the companies on several occasions about this. What are you guys gonna do? Because they could have known that by now after all these years of litigation. How are you gonna shape that? How can the government be involved in this? How can the shareholders be involved? As far as I am concerned, that is all negotiable. What can also be discussed, of course, is exactly how the Borssele nuclear power plant will be handled. He's in a separate unit now and he's under DELTA. As far as I'm concerned, it stays that way. If that changes, that separate unit of shareholders, which they had and which they can hold, will be separate. Then, as far as I am concerned, production will continue there until the year 2034 and a fund will continue to be filled from the proceeds of production to ensure that the costs of decommissioning and decommissioning can be borne by the year 2034. If there is a problem there, it can be discussed with the shareholders and with me. Then we'll see what the problem is and how it can be tackled. So I certainly feel co-responsible for the nuclear power plant. Firstly, the shareholders are responsible, but I will continue to talk to them under all circumstances, to see how we can ensure that the nuclear power plant continues to produce responsibly until 2034 and in the meantime collects the amount needed to dismantle it. If there are any problems there, I am available to discuss them, to see how the problems should be analysed and tackled.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u183	Is the Minister prepared to keep the Chamber informed about the positioning of the nuclear power plant? I understand that in the first instance the owners are responsible, but let's say the worst scenarios come true. Next thing you know, a nuclear power plant like this is owned by another party, maybe a foreign one. How do we deal with the reservations and the ambush? There is very little money available for this at the moment. I think that's a matter for the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u184	He can't come into the hands of a foreign company outside of me. I'm gonna have to work on that. This has been the subject of agreements, apart from the legal provisions in force. So that nuclear power plant can never be sold without my consent. And where I said'my approval', you should hear 'the approval of the cabinet', because nuclear matters are now covered by the colleagues from I and M and the colleague from Finance. The plant can't be sold without permission. Production must continue to be done in a responsible manner. We have a separate dedicated supervisor for that. If problems arise around the nuclear power plant, the cabinet is available to discuss this with shareholders. So we are not going to do anything weird about the nuclear power plant.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u185	A follow-up question from Mr Vos.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u186	At Thermphos, the province and the local shareholders had to bear the cost of the clean-up. Is such a scenario possible at the nuclear power plant? Or does the Minister rule that out?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u187	If a company is closed down or goes bankrupt, the owners or the person whose land is located are confronted with the consequences in this case Zeeland. Those are just the legal consequences. The involvement of the government in the nuclear power plant has been significant over the years. It is also logical that this involvement should remain. The shareholder will undoubtedly have the intention to keep the plant running in a responsible manner and to have the fund filled. Should the shareholder come to the conclusion that there are problems because of the involvement that the Empire has always had at the power station, we are available to discuss this with the shareholder. We will then look at how the problems should be analysed, what solutions are possible and who should contribute to this solution. So I am absolutely not holding off on this nuclear power plant. I want to make no mistake about that. No sale takes place without the agreement of the cabinet. I am prepared to discuss this with the shareholders in all the situations that arise.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u188	The Minister continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u189	The enforcement of the Independent Network Management Act, the Won, will have to be done for DELTA and Eneco in a responsible manner. The companies could have prepared themselves, but I do not know to what extent they have already prepared themselves. They're talking to ACM, who's responsible for enforcement. I have also had conversations with ACM about this myself. We will continue to have these talks. We will look at how the law can be enforced in a responsible manner, including in these companies. ACM does not have its hands free in that respect. If it were not maintained, the other companies which were split up at the time would see the situation developing that a company which also has to comply with the law does not. That is where it is being pushed forward, while it is a company that has a fixed access to all consumers via the network and therefore has an easy access to the production and supply business of those consumers. They may then ask: what is the situation for these two companies and what is the law and the situation with us? Is it reasonable what happens to those two companies? We are also being called upon to do so at the moment. ACM is also addressed by other companies that say that this law applies both to us and to them and we would like the principle of "equal monks, equal hoods" to apply. ACM must therefore take a responsible decision on the application and enforcement of the law. I believe that what can play around that is all relevant to the nuclear power plant and the possible merger between Eneco and DELTA. All these things can come into view. That can be discussed with ACM. I myself am also available to discuss this further with ACM. We will make a responsible decision on the enforcement of the Won, a decision that is also responsible for the two companies. This cannot mean that there will be an absolute job guarantee for anyone working at Eneco or DELTA. That is absolutely not the case. Those companies are having a hard time, just like Vattenfall, RWE and E.ON are having a hard time. All companies in the energy sector are struggling, because there is a transition to renewable energy and the price of electricity has fallen by 40% to 50%. Money needs to be released to build capacities for renewable energy. Money must also be made available to reduce the other capacity in a responsible manner. They're all having a hard time and jobs are under discussion everywhere. However, the jobs that are under discussion are also jobs that will be created, because the new infrastructure needs to be built. The windmills must be built and placed. The turbines, the masts themselves and the wicks must be maintained. New jobs are thus also being created. In this context, we must see the employment problem that is currently taking place in Zeeland. Mr Vos and Mr Bosman spoke in depth about Zeeland. That province is not doing badly in the field of employment. Zeeland is a tough province with companies that run well taken by the bank. As a result, the unemployment rate in the first half of 2015 was less than 5. The province has taken the hits and has benefited from new developments. I have already outlined here that in the field of renewable energy something will start again in Borssele, off the coast of Zeeland. New developments are to be expected there. It is my belief that the province of Zeeland will consider how the application and enforcement of the Won, also for DELTA and Eneco, will work out and what its consequences are. The province will then consider whether something extra should be done and, if so, what. The cabinet is absolutely available to see how we can be supportive with our own capabilities if there is an initiative from a province. We have applied this before in Groningen and we will want to do so for other provinces and certainly for Zeeland. We are therefore prepared to discuss what is good for the inhabitants of Zeeland and the province as a whole. I have already gone into the position of the consumer and the ACM. I now come to the subject of cross-participants. We have the line that we want the nets in the Netherlands in government hands. The same applies to the Gasunie and TenneT networks. But there is a development in Europe towards a single energy market. At first, all countries did so separately, but now we in Europe are trying very hard to do so together. For example, Germany first intended to consider how it could secure its own security of supply in a situation of too little electricity production if the sun does not shine or the wind does not blow, because it would not have enough power stations available. Germany therefore looked at what it should have as a spare capacity. In addition, lignite and coal were perhaps excluded and nuclear energy was certainly excluded. It therefore wondered what reserve capacity it wanted for the future. If it didn't have enough gas plants, it would add up. Germany therefore wanted to create its own capacity mechanisms. This would create the strange situation that we have stopped in Dutch gas plants and are going to build new ones in Germany. The same was true in Belgium. Now we are all saying that we are not going to look at it on a country-by-country basis, but together in North-West Europe, and we are going to have a common energy policy as much as possible. That is why we have made all these interconnections with Germany and Belgium. If they have too much, we can take it away. If we have too much, they can take it away. That way we can help each other in the event of problems. It is therefore a common European energy policy. If you do that, it is conceivable that joint network companies will also be created. How can they be created? You may be aligning things and merging into a larger group. But it may also be that you're going to work together by exchanging shares. We then take shares in a German network company and the Germans take shares in our network company. In this way, you contribute to the creation of a Northwest European network company. I don't know if it's gonna be like this, I don't know if it's gonna be a stock exchange, and I don't know how many shares it's gonna take. I only know that it is wise to keep the possibility open to do so if it is the best solution. But if that happens, a decision will first have to be taken by the cabinet. The House of Representatives will then have to give its assent; this must be done explicitly. Only in that situation can it become a reality. So I'm not planning it at all right now. I think that there are other possibilities and that 49.9% exchange of shares is not obvious at all. Probably could do it with less. But I do not know exactly how things are developing and think that we should create these opportunities for ourselves in the law. In doing so, we must have the ultimate limit that we hold more than half of the shares, so that we can ultimately decide for ourselves. Some spokesmen said: you could then work with a German network company and exchange shares, and that German company could sell those shares. That's not possible. If they sell those shares, the whole business will lapse and those shares will return to us in the Netherlands. We'll have the case in our own hands. That possibility of selling after you've been cross-participated doesn't occur. From the moment a sale takes place, there is no cross stake. Then the original situation comes back into effect. That is how I think we have managed it properly. We have created our possibilities without deviated from our principle. The decision on whether or not to make use of this possibility lies in the last instance with the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u190	Is the Minister suggesting that such a cross-participation, if we would allow it, can only be done with a network company that is in public hands? Can there be no privatisation?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u191	No, I'm not saying that. If in other countries that are in private hands and a North-West European company were to be established, it would be worth considering cross participation between the public Dutch company and the private German company. That's a possibility, but that private German company can't resell those shares. In that case, they'll come back to us. The private German company cannot decide what happens in the Netherlands either, because we hold the majority of the shares in the Dutch net.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u192	Perhaps it is my limited understanding, but we are having a whole debate here on the division of DELTA and Eneco. The main argument is that the nets should remain in Dutch hands. That's a public interest. That is what we need to ensure...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u193	Not in Dutch hands, they must remain in government hands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u194	First, Mr Vos finishes his interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u195	At the same time, we say at the same meeting that we are also going to look at how part of our networks in Germany can be exchanged for shares there. Then it's gonna be a private matter there, isn't it? That's impossible, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u196	What we do is leave a possibility open. We are engaged in a rapidly changing market, a market that is internationalising. European cooperation is intensifying. We are building a sustainable energy market and we do not know exactly how it will develop. It is conceivable that in future it will be necessary to cooperate with other countries and have a joint network company. If we are to reach that conclusion, we must have created an opportunity to do so. I do think there should be a lower limit to that. That lower limit is that we always keep the majority of the shares in Dutch government hands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u197	I share Mr Vos' concerns. Take our gas grid. We have had a lot of debates here on the extraction of gas in Groningen. The Security Research Council has made recommendations. One of these recommendations was to revise the gas building in such a way that the House of Representatives and the people can participate. Now the Minister wants to make it possible for foreign parties to take an interest in our gas grid. It is not desirable for foreign parties to talk about our gas grid and thus about the gas building and gas extraction in Groningen?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u198	What could be desirable is the creation of a North-West European network, both for gas and for electricity. I do not foresee that for the short term, but it may be that we are growing there. The question is how to achieve that. Can you do that by selling the Dutch net to a German company? The cabinet feels that we should not do that. The cabinet believes that we should have control over our own Dutch networks, even if we were to cooperate with other companies in a North-West European context. But we can imagine that at some point the cabinet and the House of Representatives conclude that, in order to allow such cooperation with other countries, it is important to exchange shares to some extent, that we get shares from them and they get shares from us. We'll keep it as long as we have that cooperation. If this cooperation falls apart, we will get the shares back, because they cannot be sold to another. For such a consideration, I want to create the possibility. Whether we are going to do it depends on the Cabinet and the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u199	This law makes it possible. At least it offers an opening. The Minister may say that we decide with each other, but if there is an opening, it is very difficult to stop it. The PVV prefers to keep the nets in government hands. For example, in the case of the gas network, it is conceivable that the Russian Gazprom would have a share in our gas network and that Gazprom would talk about our gas network. Surely that's not desirable? Surely the Minister doesn't want that, does he?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u200	When I talk about a Northwest European network company, I don't think about Russia or Gazprom. I am thinking of Belgium, Germany or perhaps Denmark. Gazprom can't be in the picture. It is also not possible that if we work together with a German or Belgian company, our shares will be sold to Gazprom. Those shares should not be sold at all. We are now opening up a possibility in the law, but that does not mean that we are going to do it. Mr Vos has already made it clear that he has little appetite for it. I have made it clear that I think it should be a possibility for the future. It is a discussion that we can have in the Cabinet and in the Chamber at some point. The Chamber and the Cabinet will assess any proposal on its merits and then draw a conclusion. I think this is the way it's supposed to go.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u201	I have, of course, listened carefully to the Minister, but frankly I do not understand it yet. The Minister is making a plea for the future. We do not fully understand them, but we do know that the situation may lead to more integrated networks. It is therefore essential to establish cooperation, for which a stock exchange is a condition. I understand the cooperation, but can't it be arranged in any other way than with a stock exchange? In doing so, we do transfer a piece of authority over our net to foreign countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u202	I think there are other possibilities, and I can imagine that they will be used earlier. This is also a possibility. If countries work together, they can come to the conclusion that it is not voluntary cooperation and that activities are not only coordinated, but that a common interest is also created by participating in each other. That is a not unusual way to establish a solid basis for cooperation. By the way, this does not give you powers. There are two guarantees for that. One guarantee is that we hold a majority of the shares. The other guarantee is that whoever we cross-participate with may not resell the shares. That way, we've got the place well shielded. Mrs. Dik thinks other possibilities are more interesting. It is quite possible that the cabinet will agree. It can't be discussed at all. If it comes up, the cabinet may also find other things more interesting. We would like to keep this possibility open and we believe that the Chamber can afford it. If the Chamber thinks that the conditions are strong enough, that it is important and that it is justified, the Chamber has the opportunity to do so without any law preventing it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u203	Maintaining a majority stake in a network means that a significant part can be transferred to foreign hands. That is also the leaking of public money into the public network, after all, public money also goes abroad. I can see why the Minister says that it is happening on the basis of reciprocity, because we are also getting something in return that will make this cooperation very close. I am curious to hear what other options there are for cooperation. The Minister says that this may be the ultimate form of cooperation, but he also acknowledges that we can achieve the same goal by other means. Those are resources that are not so far-reaching, because they ensure that we have maximum control over our own network.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u204	Let me mention two possibilities. The first possibility is a merger. I think that a merger could only be considered, at all, when it comes to a foreign network company that is also in government hands. If it isn't, it's not an option as far as I'm concerned. A merger with a foreign network company, for example in North Rhine-Westphalia, if that were in government hands and if it were also an independent company specialised only in network management, would be a theoretical option. Another theoretical option is that although there are separate companies, these companies do coordinate the whole business operation and ensure that they make all decisions together and that everything is technically compatible. In practice, there is actually one company, but legally it is still kept apart. That's also a possibility. A third possibility is that which we are talking about, namely that things should be coordinated and that there should be as much unity as possible, but that this should be supported by cross participation. That too is a possibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u205	As flexible as I hear the Minister about this part of the law, so inflexible I experienced him just now, when it was about the split. Why does the Minister not simply want to enter into the debate with the Chamber on the various forms of division without being forced to split up as it is now enshrined in the law? Why does the Minister find it so difficult to embrace the amendment tabled by Mr Smaling? I don't think I can reconcile this very well. That's why I thought, "I'm just gonna put this to the Minister."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u206	Let me put it in my answer to Mrs Mulder. That answer is this. What I have just spoken about is an opportunity that we are creating for ourselves for the future, whereby the Cabinet and the Chamber can freely take a substantive decision on it. The other is a law which has been in force for seven years and which has finally been decided by the Supreme Court that it must be implemented and that it is in force. That's the difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u207	A follow-up question from Mrs Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u208	I think the comparison could be drawn fine, only it works one way towards the future and the other towards the past. There are changed market conditions and you should always be able to respond flexibly as an innovative country. If you notice that the consequences are so great, perhaps a loss of 1,800 jobs, perhaps less, and all families who are going to have to do with them when it is not necessarily necessary, I expect this Minister to be more flexible in looking at the other possibilities and to discuss them with the Chamber. This minister says, as I listen to him tonight, the same thing that a former classmate said: I can't, I won't, don't, don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u209	The question is, is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u210	Maybe this is the way you communicate in your environment. I can't quite oversee that in Drenthe. As far as I am concerned, we have just examined the issue of division, the law on independent network management, the amendment and the importance of this law exhaustively. There is now another subject on the agenda, namely the development of a possible North-West European network company and the question of what might possibly be covered and where we could possibly create opportunities for ourselves for the future. Those are really two different issues, and also two different situations. One is to create opportunities for the future, the other is to apply the law that came into force seven years ago and which, in my opinion, is a good law, also in the interest of the Dutch and Dutch electricity customers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u211	Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u212	Would you like to place a third interruption, Mrs. Mulder?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u213	No, I wanted to make a personal statement. The Minister doesn't have to give such a qualification. It's about behavior, being inflexible. That's what I wanted to name. It is a pity that the Minister is showing this behavior.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u214	I don't quite understand what the personal fact is. What did I say wrong?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u215	But a personal fact is not discussed. So we should not do that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u216	That's it. I understand that, in the end, the difference I have indicated may also be of interest to Mrs Mulder. I am not saying that anything should happen in this area. I am merely saying that this bill offers the possibility of cross participation. For that we have two, or rather three, securities built in. The first certainty is: apart from the cabinet, the Chamber decides on it. The second guarantee is: the shares can only be sold in part, with the majority of the shares remaining in the hands of the Dutch authorities. And the shares we exchange with cross-participants can't be resold. This construction may also be acceptable to Mrs Mulder and the CDA. This will then be reflected in the rest of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u217	Clear! The President continued his speech... Excuse me, the Minister. I'm not arguing. The blood crawls where it can't go.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u218	It was the cross-participants, Mr. Chairman. I have a number of general comments on the wiring. We have done two things at some point. At first there was nothing at all at that point. There were houses under high voltage lines, but there was no reason to take those houses away. Scientific research had not shown that there was a dangerous situation. In addition, we remained below the European standard for the radiation load of these high-voltage lines. There was therefore no reason to do anything about it. The cabinet has decided to do something anyway, namely to pay out 140 million and to buy up the houses that are right below those high-voltage lines in the outskirts. The owners of those properties will have the opportunity to sell them. If such a situation occurs in the built-up area, where many houses stand together, it is not realistic to buy up all those houses. We have therefore discussed the possibility of laying the lines underground. That's gonna cost a lot of money. If a high voltage line runs over a residential area, the municipality can already agree with TenneT that that line is being laid underground. The costs will then be borne 100% by that municipality. We have decided to accommodate the municipalities in all these situations by charging 75% of the costs to the Empire. This reduces the cost to the municipality from 100% to 25%. For the municipality there is an improvement in spatial planning in that district. The owners of the houses in that district will face an increase in value of their homes, possibly 10% to 15%. Is this all in all enough reason to do so in that municipality? The municipality will undoubtedly make a careful assessment if it has to bear 25% of the costs itself. It is an important cost reduction for the municipality, but this 25% remains an incentive to make a careful assessment. If that consideration is made and those costs are borne by the municipality, the municipality has a spatial planning advantage. The owners of the houses have a value advantage and also the advantage that they have lost that cable over their heads. With this we think we have made a good move towards municipalities. We have already discussed this with the Chamber twice, namely in 2013 and 2014. In the end, this arrangement came out. The Chamber is now saying that the Empire could also be responsible for a higher percentage. The bill of the wiring is then transferred to the electricity customers. That might be possible, but the cabinet does not consider it desirable. We think this is the optimal construction. Spokesmen have said that you can also pay a lower percentage. We believe that with this 75% concession we have made a very strong movement for municipalities and that it is not necessary to go further. Having weighed everything up, we have come to this conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u219	Mrs. Van Veldhoven has an interruption. It's her third interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u220	Then let me begin with a point of order. With his intonation, the Minister states that he has come to the end of what he wanted to say on the subject of wiring. I am very surprised that he is not trying to answer the very specific questions raised by the Chamber. I also found that at the previous point and at the point of the split. We have made a friendly agreement to limit the number of interruptions, but now we really cannot deal with the number of interruptions. If the Minister does not answer the questions and we have to ask every question in the event of interruption, we will not make it by three. That is the point of order, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u221	I would like to discuss that point. So far, the interruptions have been mini-expositions. If we let go of the agreed number of three then we have to agree that although there is a bit of rack in it, only a question will be asked. Then there should be no more reading out of one's own work than others, because that takes a lot of time. My proposal is to allow two additional interruptions, but only consisting of a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u222	Mr. Chairman. I'm afraid I don't agree with that. This is a very important law, it is a very technical law and it is a broad law. There's a lot of points in it. I appreciate very much a. the way in which you chair and b. that you are trying to see with us as spokesmen whether we can conduct this debate properly. The rapid conclusion of this debate is not the end in itself. The goal in itself is the quality of the law. So we simply need to be able to ask the Minister technical questions, and he must also answer them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u223	I suggest that we give the Minister the floor, as he has asked. Then I'm gonna suspend for a moment to discuss how we're gonna pour this into the barrel.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u224	I do not intend to answer any questions from Mrs Van Veldhoven or others. I have had many debates with Mrs van Veldhoven and she knows that I want to answer all these questions. Mr President, at the beginning I said to you that I would put down for a moment what is the main line of the law, that I would then go into the most pressing point, namely the split, that I would then deal briefly with some of the other points that spring out and that I would then deal with the questions. I would therefore have come back to this subject when I answered the questions of the various spokesmen. I intend to do that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u225	Perhaps you could explain how far you have come in your speech, in your reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u226	I almost got the points I wanted to pull out separately. I shall then turn to the specific questions that remain from the spokesmen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u227	I'm gonna suspend so we can get together. I think that is better than having a public debate on the organisation of the meeting.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u228	I give the floor to Mrs Van Veldhoven for an order proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u229	Of course, I welcome the Minister's renewed commitment to be willing to answer all our questions. At the same time, we must see this evening how far we can get with the debate. So the order proposal that I would like to make is that tonight, for the rest of the first term, we should broaden the initial agreement on the number of interruptions. Then we'll see how far the Minister gets with the answer. Any remaining questions can then be answered in writing because sometimes they are technical matters. I know the Minister isn't always a fan of that, but let's go, maybe at some point that's necessary. On the basis of that written answer, we can then come back to these issues in the second period. Then we can always see whether a third deadline is still needed after a second deadline if we do not think there is enough clarity. I am not suggesting this out of anger at the Minister, but in the interest of a careful legislative process; we simply need to take the time necessary for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u230	Is there sufficient support for this order proposal? I see agreement. Then that's how we do it. I would suggest that we take a look at how far we are at the 11 o'clock, what remains to be completed and what can possibly be done in writing. Then the request for the second deadline to be scheduled as soon as possible next week is already being considered. We hope that the Minister will be able to agree, at least, that this will not lead to any blockades.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u231	I've come to deal with a law in the Lower House. I'm getting oral questions. I would like to give an oral answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u232	Yes, but if that can't be completed tonight, then the idea is to deal with it in writing. That does not seem to me to block the progress of the process in itself. Shall we proceed with the answers to the questions raised? Then the Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u233	Mr. Chairman. Mr Smaling wondered why there were so many AMvBs in this bill. This is a legislative proposal in which we have laid down all the important points. All other things, which are not crucial, we do in an AMvB, so that we can react quickly to the changing circumstances that we face. For some AMvBs, it's a front hanging procedure, because we thought it was necessary, but a very careful consideration has been made between what you do in the law, what you do per AMvB and in front of a front hanging. As we have done, it has become a very balanced whole. Mr Smaling has spoken about netting. Saldering's next. If you have solar panels on your roof and produce and use energy yourself, but at some point you have electricity left, you can put them on the grid. The other time you're gonna need electricity and you're gonna take it off the grid. You're allowed to cross-reference all that with each other. That netting is regulated by tax legislation. This bill isn't about that. That netting scheme will be evaluated in 2017. If we are going to change it, there will be a large transitional period. I have already had the opportunity to exchange this with Mr Smaling and other spokesmen on several occasions. Mr Smaling asked whether this bill would take sufficient steps with regard to low temperature heat. It cited the report of the Environment and Infrastructure Council identifying four different types of energy needs. This bill is only about electricity and gas, because that is current. There are a number of things that need to be taken care of. I have already mentioned the wind at sea and the net at sea that TenneT needs to build. In the energy report we will address the challenges surrounding the different forms of energy that people need. That report by the Environment and Infrastructure Council is also aimed at contributing to that energy report. We will then convert that in terms of heat into a new Heat Act, which will come to the Chamber at the end of 2016. Mr Smaling once again referred to the costs of wind and wind at sea, of renewable energy in general, of the SDE+ scheme, which are passed on to electricity consumers. Mr Smaling will undoubtedly have noticed that, despite the transition to renewable energy that we are going through, there has been a significant reduction in energy costs. This transition has therefore had a positive effect on purchasing power. However, if this situation is reversed and there is a negative effect on purchasing power, then this must be taken very seriously into account. This applies both to the energy tax and together with the SDE storage as well as to the cost of electricity and gas in itself. This is all an integral part of the purchasing power picture, and I agree with Mr Smaling that it should remain so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u234	I apologise for interrupting the Minister's speech, but I thought he would answer some of the questions raised by spokesmen about the high-voltage cables. We had a brief suspension and then the Minister continued to answer Mr Smaling's questions. I can put my question to the Minister, but I am also looking at you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u235	Will the Minister be coming back on the power lines?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u236	Yes, but the MPs have asked me hundreds of questions. I've taken notes of that by spokesperson. First of all, I dealt with the main points. I am passing through the questions now and then I will come back to the various subjects a number of times. I don't know how else to do that. There are eight spokesmen with all their lists of questions. I can't just shoot back and forth between one spokesperson and another. So I'm only gonna work it out by spokesperson.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u237	Fine, let's do it like this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u238	Mr Smaling asked if there was any enthusiasm in the coastal communities for wind at sea. There is rarely enthusiasm among those directly confronted with windmills. The distance to the windmills at sea must be carefully considered, but it is a different distance from the distance that applies to the people in Groningen, Drenthe, Friesland and other provinces, where windmills on land sometimes reach a distance of 400, 500 meters. I think we need careful consideration for all these different locations. We will also make them in relation to the coastal communities. The inhabitants of the municipalities will also be able to influence this with their views. Mr Smaling asked whether there was sufficient flexibility for decentralised developments. Can we keep up with the pace of energy developments with these laws and regulations? That's absolutely possible. That is what this law is designed to do, particularly because of the experimental possibilities offered. We have clarified and streamlined things, but we have also opened up experimental possibilities. This therefore offers the opportunity to deal with new developments in experiments. This can then be made final on the basis of the experience of legislative amendment. Then I come to Mrs Dik's questions. If we make certificates for green electricity, can we not also make them for grey electricity? The European Commission has directives on green electricity, which we are committed to. We also did it because there are people who think it is important to take away green electricity. That is why it must be made clear what this green electricity is. A system has been set up for that. I'm just gonna ignore the real value of that system. Mrs. Dik says you could do the same for grey currents. I wonder, because gray current is gray current. It may come from coal-fired power stations which are less or more polluting. It can come from neighbouring countries and be produced by nuclear power, which can come from lignite, coal, gas, wind or solar panels. I do not see the added value of producing certificates for all these different types of grey stream from different countries. I do know that this is going to create a lot of bureaucracy. I don't think we should do this. That is why I do not recommend the amendment on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u239	Why would we do this? Because it is important that the consumer understands where the flow comes from, either green or grey. There is now an uneven playing field. Green currents all have to be certified, but grey currents don't. In my opinion, grey electricity is already being registered and it is only a matter of making it transparent. I expect bureaucracy will not increase. I only expect greater transparency and freedom of choice for consumers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u240	Can you come to a question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u241	Does the Minister share this insight?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u242	Absolutely not. I have already said that in the Netherlands we have electricity from old coal plants, new coal plants, gas plants and the Borssele nuclear power plant. For Germany I have just mentioned eight variants of grey current. We are in contact with Norway, England, Belgium and soon with Denmark, where you also have nuclear power stations. Perhaps some of the nuclear power stations in France have been handed over. The certification of grey flow becomes one big bureaucratic circus.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u243	It's very striking, isn't it? In countries that have preceded us, such as Austria, we see that the increased consumer choice has increased transparency and the share of green electricity. We both want this commitment to renewable energy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u244	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u245	I'll tell the minister that there may be countries that do it. We all register it, all we have to do is make it transparent.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u246	I didn't change the distinction between gray and green. You can do that by certifying green. Mrs Dik mentions Austria as an example of one of the other countries. That's a misunderstanding. There's only one country that does it, and that's Austria. Nobody else does. In Austria, I believe it is a paper circus. For the reason I have mentioned, I do not think we should do this. Ms Dik asked about the role of citizens to participate in local energy projects. She knows I'm very interested in that and I want to do a lot for it. I entered that netting and held it up. I have also removed all obstacles to the scheme for a reduced rate of energy tax, which she sometimes calls postcode rose. The budget also includes an increase in the tax reduction from 7.5 to 9 cents. SDE+ is also available for local projects. So there are three possibilities to support local projects. We are going to go a long way in doing so, and we will continue to do so, provided that it is properly used. We already have an experimental arrangement. At the tender we have conducted this month for experiments, six applications have come from people who have plans for experiments. We're judging them now. We transferred the entire AMvB to the new law. We are going to create a new AMvB next year, with which we are going to extend the experimental possibilities further. Mrs Dik asked me to use this law to reach zero-on-the-meter. Mr Vos also spoke about this. He has already discussed the importance of zero-on-the-meter houses on many occasions. They know that I used the first lead to get that started. After an experiment with 150 zero-on-the-meter homes of a corporation in Groningen, my intention is to move to 1,650 homes within a year. Then we really got the industrial production of those zero-on-the-meter houses going. As far as I am concerned, we are going to go on with this, both with the rentals and in the future possibly also with the properties. With regard to wiring, Mrs Dik has asked whether it is possible to bring more 220 and 380 KV connections underground. At first we thought this couldn't be technically done. We thought that 10 to 20 kilometers would be the maximum in the Netherlands, because of the security of supply of electricity. In the meantime, we are beginning to doubt that and it is considered possible that more can be done. TenneT has said that it is not possible for cross-border connections and not for the rural ring. Besides, it costs a lot more money. We need to look carefully at where these opportunities arise and where, given the cost, it is justified to exploit those opportunities. Mrs Dik-Faber and others spoke about the producer tariff. That rate means that the person using the network by setting up electricity or gas and then supplying it to the customer pays for the use of the infrastructure. In addition, not only the customer pays the infrastructure, but also the supplier. That's a pointless system. If a supplier has to pay such a rate, it will immediately be converted into a rate that will be passed on to the customers. Instead of paying the costs of the network directly by the customers, they will be given the option to pay through the supplier's electricity or gas account. It's not gonna help them. It's just another construction. There is little use of this in Europe. For the Netherlands, this construction has no added value under any circumstances. That is why it seems clear to me that we are removing the possibility that remained a little above the market in the Netherlands. I don't think we're gonna use that one anyway. Mrs Dik-Faber also asked about the consequences of delays in the network at sea. We have set up a system in consultation with the market. I'll do everything I can to avoid any delay. I don't think he's gonna perform either. TenneT doesn't think so either. If there is any delay, those who are going to develop the five wind farms at sea must know that they will not be responsible. There must be no uncertainty about this. We found a construction for it that they agreed to. They derive the certainty from that. That's how it's done. I don't know if what we've arranged is the very best. There may well be an improvement for the future. If so, we will propose it to the Chamber in the future. For the five wind farms that are in the picture, however, what we have now come up with is functional. Mrs Dik-Faber asked why we are paying the costs for nets at sea from the SDE+ and why we are not charging them to electricity consumers. We did this because the whole wind on the sea project, which we had planned to finance from the SDE+ scheme, would be charged to the recipients entirely through the SDE levy. There are two options: you charge it either through the producer/supplier of electricity or through a storage on the producer/supplier's account, namely the SDE storage. Originally, the plan was to cover all the costs of the offshore wind farms from the SDE levy. We thought: if you take out part of those costs and let TenneT incur those costs, if you hold on to the original distribution according to the SDE charge, nothing will change for the customers compared to the original situation. That is why we have chosen this construction. Mrs Van Veldhoven spoke about experiments and asked whether there are possibilities for experiments for the system administrators themselves. The answer to that is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u247	I would like to thank the Minister for answering all the questions in detail. I'll come back to the questions about the power lines. Once again, the Minister has said that he is really going to leave the arrangement that is in place. However, contrary to the situation that I initially stood alone with the Minister in my plea that municipalities cannot afford it, many political groups now make the same plea. Does that also change the Minister's perspective on the settlement? A lot of criticism has come from many quarters. It is nice to have an arrangement, but in the end it is unworkable because the costs for municipalities are too high.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u248	There was nothing at first. Then I came to the Ministry and I worked hard on the Council of Ministers to do something on two fronts. First of all, that's the outside area that's under the cable, so you can be bought out. For this, 140 million has been released from the EZ budget. The other front is that I made a 75% subsidy scheme for municipalities that had to take 100% on their own account. The Empire is responsible for 75% of these costs. At least it was passed on nationally through the electricity bill. I think this is an enormous improvement for the municipalities and for the people living in those houses. They can be bought out. The houses are worth 15% more because the power cable is removed above them. I think it is a generous arrangement and I do not think it is necessary to make it even more generous. This would also be at the expense of the consideration of the importance of such an intervention, which should also provide financial incentives for the municipalities. That is why I am maintaining the proposal in this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u249	It is indeed nice that there is an arrangement, but the Minister says it is a generous arrangement. However, the municipalities do not experience this. The amounts they still have to make up, 25%, are still too high for many municipalities. They can't make it. It goes down to the millions. If we are going to socialise that last piece even if we have a threshold contribution of, for example, 5% or 10%, this means more €1.50 per year for households and a few more 10s per year for SMEs. That's not the cost. But with that, we can make the difference, which really means municipalities get to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u250	And the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u251	I repeat my plea: does the Minister now want to see that municipalities really cannot succeed? It's not unwillingness, but it really doesn't work. Are the additional costs for households and business not so low that we should just take that step?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u252	A few tens represent tens of euros for SMEs, and for the largest energy customers it amounts to 1 million euros or more per year. That's where people work, and that's what it's all about. Those are also companies that have to compete and monitor costs. So you have to be careful with socializing. By the way, you can lower and socialize the electricity prices on Bonaire, but wouldn't 75% be enough here? Every time the bill has to be paid in the end. It would be very good if municipalities had to weigh up. The municipalities were able to make that assessment in the past and it often didn't come to wiring, because it was too much. Now they get 75% compensation and I think a lot of municipalities will say that this gives added value, that they have the budget and that within that budget they are freeing up an amount to do so. I think a lot of municipalities are actually able to pay for that. Municipalities with other priorities have every right not to make use of this scheme. Of course, you can always give more money than is proposed, but this is a very realistic proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u253	The Minister continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u254	Mrs Van Veldhoven asked whether network operators could also opt for storage rather than grid congestion. It referred to the situation that no additional cable is pulled or thickened so that more power can pass through, but that somewhere a large battery is placed, which is used when there is no wind or sun. However, a network company should not be allowed to supply electricity, even from a company. That has to find a solution to that. It can make an appointment with a producer supplier who takes care of this part, but can also work with two batteries. The moment one battery gets exhausted, it feeds the other and vice versa. That is also a technical possibility. Different variants are possible. I would like to support that storage, but I would not like to deviate from the principle that a network company should confine itself to the networking system. Mrs Van Veldhoven also asked whether system operators for their own use could, for example, cover with solar panels on the roof. It's okay. That happens behind their own meter. That's not a problem. Mrs Van Veldhoven also asked about the flexible network charges. She asked about the conversations with the energy-intensive companies. The flexible grid charges are not yet in place, but I have discussed this with the Chamber before, and I will have it examined whether this can contribute to the creation of demand response in the market. This means that people and companies will react to the price: when it is cheaper, they will decrease more and when it is more expensive, they will decrease less. That needs to be looked at. It is also important to look at how the energy-intensive industry is going to be involved. The results of that research will be discussed, first and foremost with those companies. I think we could have completed the investigation in early 2016, have been able to look into it and talk about it with those companies. I will also look a little more broadly at the flexible grid charges, as Mr Vos said it might also be possible to save net increases. We'd like to take a look at that, too. We will also see if we can examine this in the field in test gardens. So I am working on this in a positive way, as Mrs Van Veldhoven is usually used to me. Mrs Van Veldhoven asked whether there was also a possibility for system operators to offer large consumers a fee to switch off. At some point, a system administrator has an interest in reducing demand. He could then say to the big consumers: stop for a moment, you will no longer get electricity, but instead you will get a refund from us because you are prepared to do so. For the purposes of the system balance sheet referred to by Mrs Van Veldhoven, TenneT already offers market players, including large consumers, a market-based remuneration to reduce production in the event of a shortage of demand. That's an effective system. However, there is no compensation to limit the peak load of a system. We have set up a tariff system in which we calculate rates based on peak consumption. I think it's good to do that. Eventually you have to have the capacity available to deliver the volume of that peak consumption. It seems to me that the system of fees we now have is a good system combined with the transport rates based on peak consumption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u255	If more production or less consumption are two solutions to the same problem, namely an imbalance between supply and demand, is the Minister prepared to investigate whether a proper system can be developed to also give demand reduction a place in the entire system used by TenneT, in order to achieve a good balance between supply and demand?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u256	I don't want to rule things out. I would like to ensure that, if necessary, customers go back to their purchase and that there is a compensation for that. I would also like the tariff structure to remain that way. I also welcome the fact that the rates are based on peak taxes. However, you have to look at where you can make improvements within these principles. I would like to look at that in two ways. The first way is that you look at it theoretically. The second way is that you will also carry out experiments with it in practice. I'm willing to do both.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u257	I thank the Minister for this commitment. Can he also indicate when he thinks he can tell the Chamber a little more about that? Such an experiment takes time, so it won't be very soon. It would be good if the Chamber could discuss this on the basis of the results of the experiments.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u258	I would like to try to come up with the first information by the end of the first quarter of 2016 and then perhaps indicate how we want to continue the process with those test areas. Mrs Van Veldhoven spoke about the possibility of dealing at 15 minutes' worth. I apologise for the technique, Mr President. Before consumers buy electricity at 15 minutes, where you pay more at one time and then less at the other time, a number of conditions have to be met. We need to make sure that we have ICT in order. We need the smart meters with the people. Suppliers and system operators must all have their administration and their technology in order. This may run in 2019. Then we have a penetration of the smart meter of over 80%. Then they also had the opportunity to adapt the systems and this could also come into view. Mrs Van Veldhoven spoke about equal treatment of all heat sources. She wants us not to connect neighborhoods to gas by default, but also to have the possibility of only being connected to heat. Several developments are taking place in this area. We are already building neighbourhoods in which we can no longer connect to gas, for example the large district between Arnhem and Nijmegen. The district on the other side of the Waal from Nijmegen, the Waalspring, is completely connected to heat and no longer to gas. So that is already possible at the moment. In spring, I sent the Chamber the heat vision. I am now working on the implementation agenda contained in it. This year we will review the Heat Act. Then we will also examine the market model that best fits in with that. At the end of 2016 we will then come up with a new Heat Act. This is what I'm doing right now. That's what I want to focus on. I wouldn't want to run any further investigations around that. However, the heat is clearly in my image. I think heat will be used much more in the future than it is now. That will also mean that we need less gas. With that intention, I'm working on the Heat Act. Mrs Van Veldhoven has asked if the 10 million damages are sufficient to inspire TenneT to arrive in time with the net at sea. That 10 million should get TenneT out of its own funds. He can't pass TenneT on to his clients. That means it's a very heavy fine it gets in such a case. However, this fine should not be discussed at all. I've spoken with TenneT intimately. It has itself indicated that it can implement the network at sea in time. TenneT has also made it clear to me how it intends to achieve this. It used the entire organization to do that. TenneT has also gained the expertise through its German experience. I therefore believe that this compensation scheme of 10 million is sufficient, and that TenneT is able to implement the network at sea in time. Mrs Van Veldhoven also asked how to prevent capital destruction in the event of division. It spoke in particular about the gas plants. She says that the split can also cover the need to close down gas plants. If these gas plants are to close down, this is not because of the split-up but because of poor market conditions. In the current electricity market, these gas plants are not profitable and therefore risky for the integrated companies or for the production and supply companies. We have already discussed in detail the importance of not letting those risks be reduced on the networks. Mrs Van Veldhoven has asked a few other questions about division, but I have answered them. Mrs Van Veldhoven also asked whether the guarantee fund for the Borssele nuclear power plant would be filled. In my response to Mr Vos, I addressed the question of how I see the involvement of the cabinet. I have also said that I am available for consultation on this issue. Mrs Van Veldhoven also asked about cross participation. I have also answered these questions extensively, as have the questions about stock exchange and not being able to resell it in cross-equity. I have also spoken about the certification of green and grey energy. I have thus had Mrs Van Veldhoven's questions to my estimation and come to Mr Vos.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u259	Mr President,......................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u260	Mrs Van Veldhoven, you have had four interruptions. Is it worth considering... this is your fourth interruption, I hear. Excuse me. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u261	It's late for all of us, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for all the questions he has answered. I have asked two or three questions about cross participation that have not yet been answered. What are the consequences for the Dutch network if a foreign network operator suffers heavy losses? How do we prevent a waterhead from taking great risks abroad? So how can we prevent the relationship between the capital of the network operator here and the capital that is participating abroad from going out of balance, which could put the Dutch taxpayer at great risk? If there is cross-equity, are shares sold? Or is cross participation with a closed stock exchange or should there be money or is that money? If it produces money, can the Minister guarantee that the proceeds will be used for the network itself? Does the Minister consider that shares should only be exchanged or sold by a country that has a direct connection with the Netherlands? Should all shares, sales or exchanges be approved by the Minister? Why isn't this part of the law? Those were some specific questions that I would have liked to have been answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u262	I'll be happy to answer all of those questions. The waterhead and the great losses are, I think, mutual. If you work with Germany or Belgium and make an agreement about exchanging shares, you make an assessment of the risks and the values on both sides and then you come to a certain ratio of exchange. It can turn out different on the Dutch side. It can also work differently on the German or Belgian side. But that's the risk you run if you put something together. There's no sale. It's about cross participation. Let's just keep it real simple for a while. So if we do something about North Rhine-Westphalia, we get a certain package of shares in their company and they get a certain package of shares in our company. Neither of us is allowed to resell those shares. So you're just swapping with closed stock exchanges. Mrs Van Veldhoven also asks whether this can only be done with a direct connection. I think so, but I'm not ruling out anything else entirely. If we do something together with Germany, Denmark, Belgium and the Netherlands, we can make an agreement that all four countries exchange parts to a certain extent in order to strengthen intensive cooperation. Then it would also be conceivable in a particular construction that something would be exchanged between Denmark and the Netherlands, but I do not assume that in the first instance. I hope I have answered Mrs van Veldhoven's questions with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u263	I hear the Minister clearly say that the risks are a matter of attention, decision-making and consideration, if such cross-participants are or are not involved. Why is it that the law does not require the Minister to approve any cross participation?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u264	It is inconceivable that cross participation can take place without the involvement of the cabinet. Those shares belong to the government. We are talking about TenneT and Gasunie in practice. The shares of TenneT and Gasunie are managed by the Minister of Finance. The cabinet and the finance minister must decide whether or not they want to do so. So this can't go beyond us in any way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u265	The Minister continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u266	Yes, I shall continue with Mr Vos's questions, as far as I have not yet gone into them. Mr Vos spoke about the division of roles between system operators, infrastructure companies and market players. He said that system operators and infrastructure companies want more space in terms of energy savings and alternative grid congestion, while market players are afraid that they will be squeezed out of the market. He therefore asked if I could do further research into the proper definition of tasks and activities. The purpose of this law is precisely to give a proper definition of tasks. The current Electricity and Gas Act has a vague demarcation of tasks. It is precisely in this legislative proposal that they are formulated as sharply as possible. We have done a lot of preparatory work, such as a LinkedIn group, individual discussions, a round table discussion and two consultations. So we have done everything we can to make this clear and to give the various parties the opportunity to find out what they can and cannot do. That could unlock a lot of creativity. Nothing kills initiatives as much as lack of clarity. Mr Vos is quite right about that. An important element of this law is that we are putting an end to it now. That definition is now very clear, but as a result of new developments there may be a need to approach certain things in a different way. In order to do that, we have the experimental arrangement. We let them work in such a way that we can always return to the old situation if an experiment fails. So an experiment can never be irreversible. Mr Vos stressed the importance of starting tenders for wind at sea. I have dealt with this in detail, as have the compensation for wind at sea. Then I come to the role of infrastructure companies in making them more sustainable. Mr Vos says that alternatives to grid congestion such as storage and flexibility services are becoming increasingly important as a result of increased decentralised generation. I should do an investigation to see how that can be accelerated. I think that, first and foremost, our attention should be focused on sustainability. We need to get it done. We have the Won's idea that the nets are separate. With the energy agreement and the government agreement, we have set a clear line for the ambitions of renewable energy; I am not talking about the Urgenda statement yet. That is our challenge now. In the future, it will be more important to look at what effects this has on the networks. For the time being, we can get rid of everything we do in the area of renewable energy on the networks. So there are no bottlenecks for the first few years. Let us do this first and then start looking in good time at the consequences for the networks and what alternatives there are for grid congestion. Moreover, I do not see any role in this for the infrastructure companies. System operators are the operators of the networks. They can be part of an infrastructure company. This can also deal with other infrastructure issues. I am really talking about the system operators and not about the infrastructure companies. Mr Vos spoke of extending the experimental space. That's what I've been working on. Experimentation space is currently limited to matters that are both local energy and concern renewable, renewable energy. Otherwise, you can't experiment. The new law extends these experimental possibilities very much with a new AMvB. That means you can experiment a lot more. This is also necessary because the market is so moving and we need to respond adequately to new developments. Mr Vos spoke about the role of the Gas Union in the energy transition. The Gasunie consists of Gasunie Transport Services, or GTS, and the infrastructure companies in the Gasunie Group. The latter may compete on the market with market participants for infrastructure other than networks. Gasunie Transport Services can't do that. It has to be limited to network management. For example, GTS should not deal with Power-to-Gas, because that is not the management of a network. GTS should not deal with gas production but should really focus on the network. However, as far as the network is concerned, GTS is given extra space because it is also a transmission system operator. For this role, it is also given room in the new law on LNG and gas storage activities. Mr Vos spoke about demand management by system operators. He says that, for example, a company that manages an electricity network can say to the customers: you need to do a little less in that neighborhood because I have no more possibility there. Or: that company needs to do a little less because that suits me better. If a system administrator can do that, he can send in the question. I'm not heading there. The current legislation means that everyone has the right to be delivered sufficiently. If we are going to change something in that and turn to demand management, that is a major change. We must then have a very clear picture of the advantages and disadvantages of this. If we have thought about this theoretically, we must carry out experiments with it. Then we can see how far we want to go. I do not think it is appropriate at the moment to leave that choice to system operators, but for the longer term I do not want to exclude it in the way I have just put it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u267	I have a question about producer prices. Surely it is possible to have it as a possibility in the law, but to set the rate to zero? Doesn't the minister do what he wants? Then there is the possibility in embryonic form. The Minister says that we are not ready for the moment and can therefore put it to nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u268	I'm convinced we'll never get to it. As soon as you introduce a producer tariff, those producers will pass it on to their customers. It's not gonna help anybody. You do something that doesn't have any material effect. We have given this a lot of thought, we have talked about it with the market and I do not see anything in it. It makes no sense to leave it as an opportunity in the law. The law must be clear and contain no more provisions than is necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u269	I thought the minister just said, "Maybe we're getting there, we're going to look at demand management and cutting the peak." And now I hear him very firmly saying: that side does not make sense; it will never become him.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u270	A producer's tariff is not. That's how you switch to another system. At present, the costs of the network are paid by the buyer. You could go to a system where you let the supplier pay all or part of the costs of the network. That makes no sense because it is immediately converted into tariffs. What I just said to Mr Vos was the approach from a different angle. Then it is not about shifting the account from one to another, which then passes it on to the other. As far as the producer tariff is concerned, we have really come to the conclusion that it does not make any sense. The other thing that Mr Vos suggested may be useful for the long term in a different form.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u271	I can imagine that you would allow the producer of a more polluting form of energy to pay a different producer rate than a small, decentralised initiative. Isn't that how you could send producer tariffs? Then you will pass on different rates to the consumer, but then there is also a price difference and thus an incentive for certain forms of energy. This allows you to influence...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u272	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u273	Does the Minister see this as an opportunity?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u274	I think it's a complicated detour. The supplier of what Mrs Mulder calls polluting energy will indeed continue to calculate this. You want to give an incentive by working with different rates for producers who are going to charge it. We have already built so many incentives into the system that we do not need this additional incentive. In my opinion, it has no added value. This also emerged in the market consultation and in all the discussions we have had. Our ultimate conviction is more widely shared there. Mr Vos spoke about the concept of 'connection'. That concept has indeed changed. A connection is a connection of a network to an immovable property as referred to in Article 16 of the WWTP. Indeed, that law does not apply in the exclusive economic zone at sea, but there may be real estate in that zone as referred to in the WZ, for example a built property in a certain form. Mr Smaling's amendment to this point, which Mr Vos considered supporting, is not necessary. There's no problem that needs to be solved. If I get to that tonight, I will not recommend that amendment. Mrs Van Tongeren wonders where the modernisation is in the law. I doubt a little, because it's about ten points. Shall I name them all? I think it's rude of Mrs. Van Tongeren not to. In the law, we ensure the necessary demarcation between regulated system operators and market players. That is a very important modernisation. The possibility of temporary tasks is introduced. This allows us to consider whether tasks can best be performed in the regulated or in the market domain. We increase predictability and investment security by clearly defining the principles of regulation. That is an important modernisation. We regulate the net at sea, making wind at sea possible as a last resort. We are improving the procedures for investing in the networks. This makes it possible to quickly unlock windmills on land. Those who are connected and who need a larger connection for the sake of sustainable feed do not have to pay extra for that larger connection that is important for that renewable electricity or for that renewable gas. We're preparing the experiment scheme. We're expanding the scope of the closed distribution system. We're taking away the cost of feeding green gas. This makes it easier for green gas. These are all elements of modernisation. Mrs. Van Tongeren asked why we don't regulate wind at sea in a separate law. I have already mentioned this, because it has also been put forward in an interruption. She wants to extend the guarantees of origin with grey certificates. That's what I've been working on. We've been going over the split. I think I've dealt with all aspects of that. It has asked for the implementation and evaluation of the experimental space in the current law. I have already said that the last round under the current law is closed this month. Six applications have been received and are currently being examined. We are now going to work to make the next experimenter-AMvB much wider, so that much more can be experimented. Mrs Van Tongeren asked if there could be multiple connections to one WOZ object. This is already possible on the basis of the current law and that does not change under the new law. She further asked about the spatial planning aspects of cam turbines. Nokturbines are wind turbines that you place in the ridge of a building. This point is not part of the law. This is not dealt with in this context, because this is covered by the spatial legislation, environmental permits and so on, from the Ministry of I and M. Mrs Van Tongeren knows it is necessary, because I think she deals with these issues as well. Mrs Van Tongeren spoke about neighborhoods that are no longer connected to gas. I've already gone into that. I now come to Mrs Mulder's questions. She asked whether the consultative referendum was relevant for the entry into force of this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u275	Mrs. Van Tongeren needs her last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u276	I've got two little dots left. The Minister has indeed responded to most of the issues I have dealt with in my speech. That doesn't apply to two small dots. One concerns the possibility for consumers to use their electric car as a home battery and the other the municipalities. Municipalities are very interested in the energy infrastructure in their area. The ACM determines which heat areas may or may not receive a gas network. Is it possible to involve the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u277	At both points, I am on Mrs Van Tongeren's line. The storage of energy in electric cars is really something for the future and, as far as I am concerned, that is the very near future. We must do our best to bring that closer as soon as possible. I see that as the same as Mrs Van Tongeren, and I will therefore also deal with it in a positive way at those times when it is and can be discussed. I also agree with her that the involvement of the municipalities in the question of whether or not a district is connected to gas is very important. I will therefore approach this in that way. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Mulder asked about the effects of the consultative referendum. In the first letter of amendment, the entry into force of the bill was amended to take account of the possibility of an advisory referendum created by the Chamber. The bill will enter into force by Royal Decree. I have to say that there is also provision for the possibility of not having to wait for a referendum to be held when it enters into force. This possibility is also open in the Advisory referendum Act. So that's another alternative. All in all, I am confident that, as we have now set it up with the treatment in this Chamber, which we must be able to complete by around 3.00 a.m., I hope, and later in the First Chamber, we will be able to implement it in a timely manner so that we can realise our ambitions for wind at sea in good time. Mrs Mulder asked whether the saving of 3 billion by designating TenneT is still real. I have discussed this in detail with the Chamber on a number of occasions. Finally, on 22 July, in a letter to the Chamber, I explained it in detail once more. Since then, there has been no evidence that this target reduction of 40% on the cost of a network at sea could not be achieved. I can therefore reassure Mrs Mulder in that regard. Mrs Mulder asked if I could inform the Chamber of the new network at sea which Germany and Denmark want to connect. I find that very interesting. We have no use at the moment, because we are setting up our wind farms at sea off the coasts of Zeeland, South and North Holland. With the standardisation that we have made and with the involvement of TenneT, we can best connect them to land ourselves. However, if we are going to realize windmills over the Wadden, it is certainly conceivable that we will also work together with Germany and Denmark. There's still a whole technique behind it, about which there's a lot to say. I am interested in making use of all these opportunities where it is cost-effective; Germany and Denmark are very interesting partners for us. Mrs Mulder also asked me if I could agree with a hook in the law for price incentives in grid charges for consumers. I think we have already talked about this. If it's any different, I'd like to hear it from Mrs. Mulder. I think that there is room for this within the framework at the moment. In the law as we have now, we give a great deal of room for that. In my opinion, I do not need any more extra notes. With extra brackets, you create nothing but uncertainty. Now we have precisely defined who is responsible for what. In addition, there are experiments to try out new things. But it's all clear now. I believe that we can conclude from the combination of the new law and the practical experiments we are going to do that improvements are possible. I'm always willing to do that. Mrs Mulder then asked a very technical question about flexible delivery rates, including technical codes. I must therefore give you a technical answer, and I apologise to you, Mr President. Before consumers can make use of flexible delivery rates, a number of conditions must be met in practice; I have already mentioned it. One of these conditions is that provisions in the technical codes are modernised and the profiles system is adapted. In addition, the smart meter is needed, which I have just said will have been rolled out for over 80% in 2019. We deal with suppliers, programme managers and system administrators. As I have already said to Mr Vos, all ICT applications need to be developed. Processes should also be designed to make the most of the combination of ICT with smart meters. During the implementation of these new processes and systems, it will only be possible to offer flexible delivery rates, but that option will be available afterwards. In addition, we will be able to carry out experiments and small-scale experiments in the beginning in order to gain experience. If we do it this way, the market players will have sufficient time to adapt the technical codes so that they do not stand in the way of flexible delivery rates. Mrs Mulder spoke about system administrators and batteries. I have already addressed this in my reply to a question from one of the other spokesmen. Mrs Van Veldhoven in particular spoke about this. Mrs Mulder asked for exceptions to the single malfunction reserve. All exceptions, including those for rail systems, have been made on the basis of a social cost-benefit analysis. Every time we look at the number of minutes of interference that can be saved with additional investments. The proposed exceptions lead to a small additional investment in some power stations, thereby increasing reliability compared to the current situation and controlling costs. In addition, the duration of the interruptions with the proposed scheme is limited, thereby providing certainty to customers as to the period during which an interruption will be lifted. Mrs Mulder spoke about the freedom for system administrators to determine the redundancy of the systems themselves. There is no such freedom. I come to Mrs Klever and Mr Bosman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u278	Mrs. Mulder has her last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u279	I asked some questions about the split. I will also say a few words about it in the second term. I am now asking for the justification for the argument that the division would be proportionate for the purpose, namely security of supply. The Minister does not support that. He does suggest that it would be a proportionate measure according to the court. I would like to get a response to this point. My follow-up question is why other measures such as requirements, conditions and tasks would not provide sufficient guarantees for that security of supply. None of this is apparent from the evaluations.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u280	I have already gone into the latter in detail when Mrs Van Veldhoven put forward exactly the same. I don't have to back it up, because it's an existing law. From 2001 to 2008, for seven years, the Lower House and the Cabinet in varying composition discussed this. In 2008, the law was adopted and entered into force. Since then, the law has been in force for seven years. Now you ask me if I want to support that law, but the law is the law. Two companies have initiated proceedings, but have lost them. The law applies.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u281	Do you have another follow-up question, Mrs. Mulder?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u282	Not at this point, because that is what I will talk about in my second term. I did ask a question to the Minister about the Wind at Sea Act. He has indicated that he will inform the Chamber periodically. My question was what "periodic" means to the Minister. Is that twice a year? How are we supposed to see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u283	On what occasion did I say that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u284	Is a short answer possible for explanation? Or can this be discussed in the second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u285	Maybe we can get it straightened out. It was a promise. I can't take that out of my papers right now when the Minister has made that commitment. I see to the Minister that he would not be prepared to make that commitment either.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u286	This must be demonstrated by the second deadline. The Minister continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u287	I consider the developments around wind at sea to be of the utmost importance. I think I should keep the Chamber constantly informed about this. I will use without any hesitation the possibilities of informing the Chamber through periodic reports or separately on special developments. Mrs Klever spoke in detail about the high-voltage connections. I have already discussed the wiring in detail. She also asked whether if a house is bought out, if we buy a house in an outside area under a high voltage line from the people who live there, the destination must be removed. Yes, of course. If we buy people out and cost us three tons and then get people back into them, we have achieved nothing in terms of people's health and the positive effects for people. If you're buying out, the destination must be over. Mrs Klever also asked about the consequences of failing experiments. I have already said that experiments must always be such that you can return to the old situation if the experiment does not prove meaningful and does not bring any added value. Mrs Klever also asked whether higher incomes benefit more from sustainability, including from the netting scheme. I don't know. I don't think low incomes, middle incomes and higher incomes are dirty words. There are people with lower incomes who live in their own homes and also those with higher incomes. Both of them can have solar panels on the roof and then they can all use the netting scheme. I do not know exactly what the distribution is about between the different income groups. I don't think that's relevant either.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u288	A study by Nature & Environment shows that households with higher incomes have solar panels on the roof of their buying house much more often than households with lower incomes. This information comes from answers from the minister himself, so I think he'll recognize it. After all, he himself gave that answer. This is a wealth transfer from poor to rich. The question is how far the Minister intends to go with that. When does the Minister say: now it's just going too far, now it's too much and now I'm quitting?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u289	I understand that I have informed the Chamber of information as put forward by Nature and the Environment. I don't know about the differences in income. I think it's interesting for people with higher and lower incomes who have their own homes to use those solar panels. I also think that the differences are getting smaller, because the costs of solar panels are falling rapidly. That means they're coming into the picture for more and more people. I think it is very desirable that people with higher incomes, middle incomes and lower incomes should have an interest in renewable energy and that they should also be able to use their own opportunities for renewable energy. I will ensure in my policy that all income groups can make the most of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u290	Does the Minister see the point that people with a lower income, people with a mortgage that is underwater, have no money at all to buy solar panels, but in fact they have to pay for the subsidy of someone else who does have money to buy those solar panels? After all, they do not pay for storage of renewable energy and no energy tax. In fact, isn't that a welfare transfer from poor to rich?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u291	The same goes for people who live in apartments. If you're somewhere in the middle of a large apartment complex, you can't put solar panels on your roof. Perhaps, however, there is a possibility of participating in something cooperative. I don't know how that all develops. I know that we must make this transition from fossil to renewable energy. We have a lot of different possibilities for that. Sometimes one of them benefits a little more than the other. Of course, those who participate in energy saving, in renewable energy, have a lower electricity bill than those who do not participate in it, who do not do energy saving and who do not put or can put solar panels on their roofs. There is, of course, an effect: what one pays less pays the other pays more. This is an aspect that needs attention in itself and must also continue to receive attention. You have to see how big the group is that stimulates you and how big the group is that eventually has to pay more, whether those proportions are still reasonable. I think that is a point that Mrs Klever is right to make. I'm with the last spokesperson, Mr President. You're still offering me room for that. I'm grateful for that. Mr Bosman addressed the role of market players in experimental space. Then it's about market players vis-à-vis system operators. In particular, he addressed information needs and privacy. In the legislative proposal, it is new that system operators should disclose all information relevant to the market. If they do not, I will come up with an AMvB with concrete provisions to force them to do so. System operators should ensure that market players have the necessary information to come up with their initiatives. In this way, market players can be prevented from taking these initiatives. I think it is enough for me to tell them that it has to be done and that they have a duty to provide that information, because that is quite reasonable. But if they don't eventually, it will be enforced through an AMvB. System operators cannot independently choose what they are going to do in that experiment room. This experimental space is provided on the basis of a General Measure of Governance. System operators are given the opportunity to do things that are not actually part of their task but are actually in the market. This can only be done if it is clear that the market does not take up these activities. So these are desirable activities. If the market is able to do so but does not do so, we offer system operators the opportunity to carry on experiments. The AMvB in which experimental space and temporary tasks are assigned to system administrators is subject to a standing procedure, so that the Chamber is involved in the completion. We have drafted the law in such a way that we have all laid down the main points in it and the rest in AMvBs. To the AMvBs that are really important, we have linked a front-end procedure, as well as this one.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u292	I would just like to point out to the Minister that I had asked questions on nine points. He replied on three points. There may have been one or two more points in the general story, but on at least two points I would like to answer my question. Otherwise, I really have too much for the second term. That is my question about the piece of consumer protection. Is the Minister prepared to ensure that a contract based on fixed prices, fixed rates, does not deviate substantially from a contract based on variable rates? The second question I would very much like an answer to now is whether the Minister is prepared to draw up a clear national rule when a district is designated as "all electric" or "heat" in such a way that people are protected from the cost of rebuilding their homes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u293	When we talk about a district that is no longer connected to gas, but to heat, there is a long way to go. This is then done in a new neighborhood or on renewal of a neighborhood. When it comes to an existing neighbourhood, the inhabitants are of course involved in all kinds of ways. In a new neighborhood, the municipality and the developers make that choice. That way it happens in a very careful way. In both cases, both in a new and an old situation, the interests of residents get all the space. We must also realise that it is in the general interest, including in the interests of those inhabitants, that we are successfully making the transition to renewable energy and that we are less dependent on gas. If we want to reduce gas extraction in Groningen, we must ensure that there is an alternative to the houses. That can then be in the form of heat. For that reason and in that way it can happen in a responsible way. On the subject of a central contract for a variable rate and a fixed rate contract, I will return separately in the second term. I don't have an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u294	That's what I like to hear in second term. As far as the first question is concerned, if a decision is taken at some point to transfer a district to heat, all equipment in these houses, such as central heating boilers, gas cookers and so on, must be replaced. If you make a calculation based on averages, for example the average durations of resumes, people who have just purchased a new resume or just a new gas fireplace can be unexpectedly chased at high costs, because that equipment then turns out to be no longer worth anything. The question is whether this minister is prepared to lay down a piece of consumer protection at least nationally, in order to create a national directive setting the maximum that citizens can count on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u295	It is a fair observation that such a transition from fossil to renewable energy can encounter all kinds of problems. For every problem you have to find a good solution. It's not that hard to build a new neighborhood to connect heat in that neighborhood instead of gas. If you want to do the same in an existing neighborhood, you may have houses that last longer and which have been invested longer ago and houses that have been invested more recently. It can also be a neighborhood with all kinds of corporate housing, in which all the equipment is set up by the corporation. So you will have to find solutions for each situation. I do not know whether it is necessary to settle this at national level. If it's necessary, we can consider it. Every time a municipality has to make decisions about it, the municipality there, just as we do, will want to take responsible decisions and take due account of the interests of the people. I will continue with Mr Bosman's question on flexible delivery rates. He states that if there is a cable of many kilometres to be built to someone, which is very expensive and that this brings with it socially undesirable costs. He asks me if it is possible for the system administrator to choose a smarter solution than a cable. In such a case, such a cable will never be built on behalf of the system operator and therefore on behalf of the collective. If a cable has to be constructed, the bill is for the person for whom the cable has to be installed. If in a remote area several buildings need to be connected so that you are actually expanding your system, the system administrator can say: the cost of expanding our system is reversed. But it is obvious that, if there is a remote lot where one cable has to be put, the person who has to pay the bill will see if there is no better alternative and can't be done in a cheaper way. In this way, the right stimulus lies with the right person. Mr Bosman also spoke about the obligation of confidentiality. He wondered if I believe that the responsibility for leaking privacy-sensitive data lies with the company that leaks the data. The Board of Appeal for Industry has ruled that under current legislation there is no breach of the obligation of confidentiality if the information to be kept confidential becomes known but not due to deliberate disclosure by the system operator. I don't think that's desirable. It is ultimately about whether or not data becomes public and whether privacy is affected by it. In doing so, I have chosen to rephrase that in the legislative proposal. The bill requires system administrators to ensure that such data is kept confidential. They just have to make that for each other. The law also regulates the cases in which the provision of data by system operators is lawful. Once information has been lawfully provided to a party by a system operator and that party subsequently unlawfully goes out with that data, that error lies with the party doing so. It is responsible for this and not the system administrator. Mr Bosman asked for contact with the ACM following the letter from the province of Zeeland. I have dealt with this in detail, as well as at the Borssele nuclear power station which he spoke about. I hope that, with the space you have given me, I have been able to provide an adequate response to most of the questions and comments made by the spokesmen. Thank you for the opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u296	I thank the Minister for answering the questions. There are still a few things to do: a response and advice from the Minister on the amendments, the second term of the Chamber and the second term of the government. We can do that now. I've made a mistake. There is a rule in the Rules of Procedure. I suspect it is a dormant article, but it really says that at 11 p.m. the Chamber decides whether the deliberations will be continued or not. So I am 53 minutes late with that, but I would like to put it to you. Some people have said that they would be grateful to postpone the second deadline and to receive advice on the amendments in writing. That is possible if we postpone the second term until next week. I'd like to hear your response. You're in charge of your own order. We can finish tonight or follow the course of a written response and opinion on the amendments and the second deadline next week. You can then come back to any unsatisfactory answers or questions that have not been answered, and motions may be tabled, after which the government's second term will come.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u297	We would like a written response and proceed next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u298	That's what we want. That gives us the opportunity to put together a number of similar amendments, so that the pile becomes much thinner.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u299	I agree with the previous two speakers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u300	Same thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u301	That goes for me, too. Specifically with regard to one amendment, namely that on the cost of wiring, I would ask the Minister if he would like to inform the Chamber of the exact amounts of the various user groups at a threshold of 5% or 10%. That went very quickly in the debate. I think that information is known to the Ministry. I understand that this is the right time to ask, so that all Members of Parliament can take note of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u302	In view of the efficiency and the staff of the Chamber, I think it is excellent to postpone until next week. Then we have the Minister's written answer on the amendments and then we can ask a number of questions because we can put them together.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u303	I would like to hear from the Minister to what extent it is actually possible that we can really debate next week. The STROOM Act listens closely and the roll-out of this file has to do with that. The Upper House also has to meet on this matter. I would like that renewable energy to be realised within the timeframe that we have agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u304	That question will be answered. Mr. Bosman still?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u305	I agree with Mr Vos.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u306	I understand from your staff that this debate could be continued from 5 p.m. on Tuesday. Then the delay is limited. I will see how that can then be incorporated. I will forward the information Mrs Dik-Faber asked for to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u307	We have the problem that we cannot at present undertake that the follow-up will be scheduled at 5 p.m. on Tuesday, but we can clearly state the need for priority. You can all agree with that? Another afterburner from Mr. Vos.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u308	I do not want to be too difficult, but I know that the plenary agenda is sometimes very full. I really think it is very important that we pass this bill through the Chamber. That is why I would like to ask the question when and when we are going to finish it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u309	Next week in any case; that guarantee can be given from the organization. However, the time at which it is currently impossible to determine.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u310	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u311	I shall close the sitting, but not after I have left you all one more time. I shall leave it to you to do so after a working day.
