ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-5.u1	I would ask everyone in the Chamber and in the public gallery to stand as far as you can. Dear family, friends and colleagues of Jaap, dear fellow members. Monday we buried Jaap, on the outskirts of Gouda, in a beautiful, quiet spot, surrounded by his family, friends, MPs and many colleagues. Gouda was his home, but we remember Jaap mostly in this house, in this room, in the chair right next to me. For almost 40 years this was Jaap's domain. First as a clerk, later as Deputy and Acting Head and from 2005 as Head of the Registry in plenary session. Jaap was always there. Sometimes, late at night, when you thought he'd gone home a long time ago, he showed up from behind the scenes. Then when he was wearing his dark purple suit, he fell all the way from those big, red-purple panels behind me. And that was right for him. Jaap didn't necessarily have to come to the fore, or be in the spotlight. Quietly he walked into the room, watched the debate, made a hypothermia remark against the messenger and disappeared again. It says something about his elusiveness. Jaap was autonomous, introvert and difficult to gauge. During his funeral, his mother and father, brother, girlfriend and friends told stories about a Jaap I didn't know very well. A Jaap who organized playing weeks for children, with whom he also managed very well, a Jaap who announced bands in the Gouda pop stage So What and who as referee whistled off 15 minutes earlier, just because he had had enough. A Jaap who had as a life motto: "Let the imagination speak." Jaap didn't just show up in the Chamber. He didn't tell us much about his life outside the Chamber. The Jaap we saw was expert, modest and short of dust. He had an answer to every constitutional question and he could spell out the Rules of Procedure. He was able to bring difficult issues back to the core, and he always saw a hook to apply the rules in such a way that there was an opening or a solution. He once told me, with a straight face, that he had the entire oeuvre of state law scholar Kummeling at home. I don't know if it's true. What I do know is that Jaap, along with the Warrior and his immediate colleagues, was our constitutional conscience. And he was our memory. Jaap knew like no other how in the past had been decided, what consultations had been broken, or what the relations between political groups or MPs were. With all this knowledge, he was an important advisor to the President, the Bureau and the Working Method Committee. A former member of the Chamber told me last week that he remembers Jaap mostly as someone who was on the side of the MPs. And that's the best compliment. Jaap was infallible between the wishes of the board, MPs and directors. He also accompanied and advised the Committee for the Examination of the Letters of Faith and the political secretary's consultation for many years. As hectic as it was, in his own staccato way he assisted everyone with advice and deed, sometimes in the form of a firm rejection, if he really did not agree. He was the architect of many amendments to the Rules of Procedure, embargo regulations and research protocols. It is less visible that Jaap was one of the driving forces behind the development of Parlis, a computer system that is the backbone of our parliamentary work and which other parliaments are looking at with great jealousy. Together with staff from the Registry, Jaap also formed the lubrication oil of the plenary sessions. He was proud of his team. And that's right. They've been through so much together. There was a lot of laughs, but there was also a lot of great sadness. Also about Jaap himself, who was missed in the sometimes long periods that he was absent, and on return was received again and again with open arms. But no matter how heavy the setback and how deep the mourning may have been, parliamentary work has never stopped. Every day, the Registry provides us with the right documents, lists of speakers and voting lists, weekly schedules and amendments. I have great admiration for that. And now there's a new blow. Jaap's gone. But in our daily work, we'll find him a lot more. Jaap was a striking, passionate and inspiring head of service, who left his mark on the Chamber of Commerce. We're gonna miss him so much. Our thoughts go out to his parents and family, his friends and other lovers, but also to his closest colleagues, here in the Chamber. We wish them much strength at this difficult time. I would ask you to observe a moment of silence.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-5.u2	I am now giving the family the opportunity to go to the members' restaurant to prepare themselves. I'll suspend the meeting in a moment so you can pay my respects to the family at the Members' Restaurant. I'm suspending the meeting for as long as it takes.
