ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u1	Incoming his two letters. I'll read the first one: Mr President, dear Anouchka, On 12 May, I explained by letter to the members of my party why I quit as a Member of Parliament for GroenLinks. I suppose that what I'm explaining about my motivations through various media is now widely known to you as colleagues. Trust has been restored, the party is entering a new phase, which, in my opinion, includes new leadership. I can't tell you any shorter than that. It was a great privilege for me to work in your midst in the Dutch Parliament. Few countries have a democratic system that is so vital, accessible and representative. That must be said again. I believe that we should fight a little more against the atmosphere of crisis and malaise that is often associated with politics. I do not see that the electorate is becoming more critical and less predictable. It keeps us alert. I also consider that the relationship between coalition and opposition is less frozen. I hope that, even if it may not be strictly necessary later, rulers will seek support for policies that go beyond half plus one. What about the gap between citizen and politics? I would also like to put that into perspective. I don't know a colleague who doesn't turn up his or her light every week outside of what we've come to call the "Haagse kaestolp." In recent years, I have encountered countless citizens on the streets, on the tram and on the train, who are critical, but at the same time very involved. This leads, as we all experience, to the many discussions that are among the most beautiful aspects of our profession. Yes, it is a profession: you can learn it to some extent and you must also be willing to make an effort to do so. But not too much because as a politician you must also remain authentic and therefore recognizable. It's sometimes a complicated split: just being yourself is good, but it shouldn't get too crazy. Since I was in the Lower House for more than a year in 1993, much has changed and much has not. Of course, there weren't cell phones but pagers, there was no internet, you didn't get emails but letters and a running meter of Roompieces every day. At your feet stood a very large trash can where you now "deleted items" quickly disappeared. Bad for the rainforest, of course, but further to do. What changed the most is the pace at which we act politically. Even then, politicians had to understand everything, but at least you were allowed to think about it for a while. That's over for good. I have received great admiration for all those colleagues who, less than five minutes after the release of the latest CPB figures at the friestation or on Twitter, give the most thorough analyses. I was a little less skilled at that myself. When I was asked immediately after the publication of a sixteen-page article 100 letter on action against ISIS by journalists whether GroenLinks would support that action, I replied to my honour and knowledge that I had just arrived on page 2 of the letter, and that they had to call back the next day. It took only a moment before the first message appeared that GroenLinks was once again divided over a peace operation. Finally, through you, Madam President, I would like to thank all those who work here, the cleaners (hopefully soon to return to permanent service), the messengers, catering, the Registry, security, the substantive supporters. They too made it a privilege to work here. Sincerely, Bram van Ojk
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u2	This resignation was notified to the President of the Central Voting Office and to the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations. I propose that this letter be adopted for notification.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u3	A letter requires an answer. Dear Mr Van Ojk, dear Bram, The day after you announced your departure, De Speld reported on the "controversial Van Ojk, which left no one untouched." You would have opened your first group meeting with the harsh words: welcome all. Your strength earned you nicknames like the "Haagse Hannibal" and the "Tank from the Left." We all had to laugh about it, because you are known as an average politician: calm and balanced, friendly and thoughtful. During plenary debates, you defend your views with caution. Sometimes you do that in all sharpness, sometimes with a joke, but always polite and with respect for your political opponent. At the same time, you know exactly where you're going with your party. No one would have predicted in the 2012 elections that you would be chairman of the GroenLinks group shortly after you joined, but after Jolande Sap left, someone had to pick up the glove. It's not so crazy that the party was watching you. After all, you were at the cradle of GroenLinks, as one of the driving forces behind the merger between the PSP, the EPP, the CPN and your own party, the PPR. You became group chairman at a difficult time for GroenLinks, but with unbridled energy you travelled all over the country to talk to your supporters. You were obviously concerned about the future of your GroenLinks. That love for your party sounds in your decision to give space to a new generation already. We also saw them in the photos in the newspapers where you embraced your successor, Jesse Klaver. Whoever reads the article in De Speld again realizes that it contains more truths than you suspect at first glance. The force of action mentioned in the article is quite right. In the time you were a Member of Parliament, 1,361 days to be exact, you've achieved a lot. You prepared an initiative bill on limiting the use of tropical hardwood. Together with Sharon Gesthuizen and Joël Voordewind, you wrote an initiative proposal on the reception and return of refugees. You sat at the table during important negotiations with the cabinet and were ready to discuss what GroenLinks could and could not accept. You supported the new loan system, but as far as you were concerned, the relaxation of the right of dismissal and the shortening of the WW were unnegotiable. In 2013, the parliamentary press chose you to be a political talent of the year, because of the role you played in the conclusion of the autumn agreement. A great success was achieved during the 2013 General Political Reviews when you presented with the PvdA a plan for investment in childcare, a plan that was taken over by Minister Asscher of SZW. Your political career went a little different than usual. That's how you made your second maiden speech in 2012. That second maiden speech was about family migration. "I didn't think I'd make my maiden speech today, but the circumstances are asking for it, I'll say," you opened your speech. Then you dive right into the contents. You also got what you wanted straight away: the tightening of demands for family migration was postponed until the arrival of a new cabinet. "Light is not my specialty," you once said about yourself. The drive to look up the depth we have been able to see in all your contributions. Bram, In Africa, and perhaps also in Benin, the country that stole your heart, they say: grass does not grow by pulling the chips, but by watering the roots. That's what you've done here, in your group and in the Chamber, in your own calm and even way. You stayed and stayed close to yourself. At your swearing-in, you said that you found Parliament very honorable and the most beautiful profession there is. I can't deny that, of course, and I don't want to. But I'm sure with your positive attitude and sincere commitment to what's happening in the world, a lot of good things will come your way. Take care.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u4	Yeah, and then there's those days when two of these letters come in. I'm gonna read the second one, too. Dear Anouchka, Mr President, After more than eight years of membership of the House of Representatives, the moment of farewell has come. It's been a long time, but it still feels like yesterday that I was sworn in on 1 March 2007 by your equally valued predecessor Gerdi Verbeet. The electorate, my party, but also this Parliament, have given me all the confidence I needed to fulfil my role as a representative of the people. I've appreciated that every day. The work of a Member of Parliament is sometimes called honorable. It is, but fortunately not alone. Being part of a public domain with a public responsibility makes it possible to influence the course of our country for a time. This is important and very serious work. It takes a lot of yourself and the environment you care about. And I say, yes, that's more than worth it. Parliamentary decision-making and free control of the government are an essential part of the freedom we recently had to celebrate and commemorate on 4 and 5 May. I am still moved every time I see images in countries where this is absolutely not self-evident. With the termination of my parliamentary membership, a new public interpretation of my desire to remain an active shareholder of our society begins. Close, familiar, but also forward-looking, I can form the day-to-day governance of my home province of Fryslân with a new Frisian coalition. I'm really looking forward to this. I am also looking forward to the new meetings with the Members of this Parliament and everyone associated with them. In a new role, but with the same smile and ambition. With a smile and a lot of gratitude I say goodbye to you all. In good times and in bad times, my family was allowed to experience that this parliament also has a lot of warmth and collegiality. I mark the moment our family unexpectedly had to lose our son Jesse. In addition to this intense sorrow, we were allowed to share and receive five times joy in the new life that our family was given this Chamber period. With this letter, I would like to thank everyone I've been able to meet in the last few years. First of all, you, all my colleagues in the Lower House, but also the staff in this house, the parliamentary press and, of course, all those citizens and organisations with which I was allowed to come into contact on behalf of the CDA. It was a true and great pleasure to meet you all. I wish you all the best for now and the future. And perhaps bye-bye, in that beautiful province of all of us, behind that Afsluitdijk. Sander the Rouwe.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u5	This resignation was also notified to the President of the Central Voting Office and to the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations. I propose that this letter be adopted for notification.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u6	Dear Mr. De Rouwe, dear Sander, After eight years of parliamentary membership, you're gonna say goodbye today. At 34 years, you're still one of the younger members of this Chamber, but you've had a long political career behind you. At 21, you joined the city council in Bolsward to take your first steps on the national political stage five years later as MP. You're a political animal at heart. You know in debates flawlessly to name the core of the matter, you have a nose for timing and a good sense of where the opportunities lie. In addition, you are praised by both colleagues and chamber staff for your pleasant way of working together. That undoubtedly has to do with your happiness, your enthusiasm and your open way of communicating. You're also a talented speaker. At the beginning of your period in the Chamber you already won the Cicero Prize at a debate tournament for new MPs. I remember fierce debates with Mr Elias of the VVD, to whom you once said: 'I have no objection to catching up on the right, especially politically and especially not when the VVD is booming left'. You spent most of your period in the Chamber dealing with infrastructure and mobility. Especially your commitment to road safety has impressed. You were genuinely involved with traffic victims and their neighbors, and you've worked fanatically for measures such as the alcohol lock and the point driving licence. When increasing the speed limit to 130 km/h, you always insisted that road safety should not be affected. It cannot be left unmentioned today that you and Mrs Van Veldhoven were at the cradle of the Fyra survey, which is currently running. You have followed the Fyra file critically and always stressed the importance of providing complete and objective information to the Chamber. When the NS finally decided to stop the Fyra trains in June 2013, you convinced your colleagues of the need to conduct a parliamentary survey. A fine example of your persistence and your ability to form effective coalitions. No matter how much you are in the House of Representatives, as a born and raised Frisian you have never denied your origins. You have always been able to combine membership in The Hague with your family and your home in Friesland. The past few years haven't always been easy. You said it yourself in your own letter. In 2011 you lost your son Jesse, a terrible event that also touched your colleagues in the Chamber deeply. After a few months at home, you returned to the Chamber and went back to work, with at least as much energy and enthusiasm as before the accident. You described yourself in the same year as "a rich man, still with great pleasure in life." The optimism that speaks of the way you have handled that great loss is very special and characteristic of how you stand in life. Sander, At the kick-off of your list leadership in Friesland you said: "Mien hartsje foor Friesland stun in The Hague on a watchflame." That little flame can ignite freely now. And Friesland will certainly take advantage of that. But we're not just gonna let you go. I may tell you that His Majesty has pleased the King to appoint you Knight of the Order of Orange-Nassau. May I ask you to step forward so I can pin down the decorations that are part of this appointment.
