ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u1	I would like to welcome all those present in the Chamber and in the public gallery. The same applies to the people who are following this debate elsewhere in the country. I would particularly like to welcome the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the Minister for Security and Justice and the Secretary of State for Infrastructure and the Environment. All three have been invited to attend this debate. The debate was requested by Mr Omtzigt of the CDA. There is a speaking time of five minutes per group. I propose that there should be a maximum of two-way interruptions, with a question and, if necessary, a follow-up question. I call Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u2	Mr. Chairman. July 17, last year, the attack on the MH17 took place, killing 298 people, including 198 Dutch. Now, nine months later, we are having the first plenary debate on this. This brings our thoughts closer to the victims and their next of kin. As we speak, twenty police and military personnel are active in the disaster area to collect and return to the Netherlands material remains, personal belongings and debris that have not yet been recovered. Still, nine months after that fatal day. The CDA wants to take advantage of this debate to ask questions and get more clarity in a case that is still surrounded by too much fog. Nine months after the disaster, the repatriation mission to bring the bodies home is in full swing. Hopefully this will lead to the identification of all the victims. Can the government indicate if all the quadrants of the original maps have been searched? Has it been searched northeast? Will the top of the cockpit finally come back to the Netherlands, because there is important evidence in that? Priority two is figuring out the cause. The Research Council for Security (OVV) indicates that he expects to present his report on the cause in October. Under ICAO rules, the OVV should do so before 17 July. If not, he'll have to present an additional report. Is that gonna happen? Although our interest is, of course, fully in the investigation of the facts and the criminal investigation, these investigations in the nature of the case are confidential. I do have a question about it. The cabinet writes that further requests for legal aid have been made. Have the requests for legal aid to Russia and the US been satisfactorily answered, especially with regard to satellite images? If a cause is identified this year, the suspect will quickly come into sight. The witness call also seems to point in a direction. Then it is very important that the countries together have a strategy of persecution. It's supposed to be there by the end of last year, but it's been postponed a few times. Can the cabinet say anything about the negotiations that are taking place with Ukraine, Malaysia and perhaps other countries and about joint ideas that are developing? If a suspect's in the picture, it's too late. It is, of course, important that Ukraine and Russia cooperate. Ukraine has said that the amnesty from Minsk II does not apply to the MH17, but Russia has not said anything about it. There is a Parliamentary motion to respond quickly to the questions raised in the Council of Europe. Can the cabinet say anything about progress? Besides the question of guilt, there is also a question of liability. Survivors can and will hold friendly states, perhaps even the Netherlands, liable for negligence. There the importance of the State and of the next of kin may vary widely. What kind of support do relatives receive in order to be legally assisted in this situation? I would also like to hear an answer to the question as to whether there is a role for the Flying Disaster Foundation and how many relatives are members of it. The study of the choice of flight route starts first, namely already on 18 July. Why did Ukraine keep the airspace open, with nineteen aircraft and helicopters shot down? Why did Malaysia Airlines fly there and why did the KLM, despite the many warning signals? And to whom was it now to act, to warn? We still don't know. We are very concerned about that. At first, there was no warning to airlines. Last week it turned out that the KLM and the government had talked to each other after all. The memo from July 14 from Kiev was only handed over to the OVV after there was great publicity about it. In January, six months after the attack, the OVV will get the information to do the investigation. At first, the government firmly said that no society was changing and that no country had informed its companies. But that didn't work out. Why wasn't that communicated to the Chamber immediately? Does the cabinet have a list of who didn't fly over Eastern Ukraine and from when? Against this background, the Dutch Government does take action, but does not report on the basis of which analysis that is taking place. We are happy to receive that analysis. I know I've said this before. The international website, which was announced by the Secretary of State, is only filled by the UK with information about two countries. So that looks like an empty shell. Is this project gonna work? The CDA Group wants to know what information the government had and has. Has she shared it spontaneously, on her own initiative and without a doubt with the OVV and the D.A.? Is there any reason to make information available spontaneously which these organisations may not know exists? What was the exact reason why the OVV didn't get that memo until January 15th? When will this crucial investigation be completed? What is the cooperation of the secret services like? Can we finally receive an analysis from the government on which it bases policy change on flight routes? Finally, I come to the investigation of the crisis team. Unfortunately, this has become a purely procedural examination of satisfaction. This means that substantive questions about the right choices should be addressed at a later date. We were very surprised that the minutes and decision lists of the MCCb were all declared state secret. Who decided to do that? When did that happen? Exactly what qualification do they have? Now that it has happened, I would like to receive the research protocols and information protocols of the investigations, bearing in mind the conclusions of the Davids Committee. It also concluded that the classification "State secret" is sometimes applied too quickly and for too long.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u3	I note that Mr Omtzigt chooses his words with great care in the Chamber. On such a sensitive and far-reaching subject, I think that is very important. However, I was shocked to see on 20 April, so at the beginning of this week, a tweet by Mr Omtzigt in which he repeated words from another person. In that tweet there was talk of co-actors in their own country. I think "co-workers in their own country" is a very far-reaching term. I didn't hear it today. I'm just gonna assume the retweeting was a mistake. In any case, I would ask Mr Omtzig whether he is going to distance himself from the term 'co-workers in his own country'. I think that term is really misplaced.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u4	That term was in quotes. Another person used that term. If I retweet a piece, it doesn't immediately mean I agree with the whole content of that piece. Mr Van Bommel knows that too. I didn't use that term myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u5	It is not for nothing that I first praised Mr Omtzigt for his cautious choice of words today in the Chamber. I'd like to ask him to understand the following. If you retweet something, even though it is in quotes and is about words from others, and you do not comment at all, then the impression may arise that you can recognize yourself in those words. This is actually more of an opinion than a question. I would ask the President-in-Office whether he can recognize himself in those words.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u6	I thought my answer was clear. Mr Van Bommel can read very precisely in the media what words I have chosen. He noticed that yesterday I probably chose the quietest words of the entire Chamber when everyone wanted to say something about perhaps a somewhat unfortunate presentation. I didn't do that by mistake.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u7	I give the floor to the fellow applicant for this debate, Mr De Roon.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u8	Mr. Chairman. Central to my input will be the report of the Dutch diplomats of 14 July 2014 on the briefing given by Ukrainian authorities in Kiev on the situation in the east of that country. It is also central to the way in which the Dutch Government has dealt with this information. Mind you, that briefing was given three days before flight MH17 was taken down and nearly 300 occupants were killed. The Dutch Government did not want to make the report of that briefing public and did not even give it confidentially to the Chamber for inspection. After all, the report has been leaked and made public. That leaked text is the correct representation of the report, as I draw from the letter from the government of 14 April last and from the answer given to Parliament's questions on this matter. That is true, and I would like to ask the ministers just to be sure. Is that leaked report indeed the correct and complete representation? If it isn't, what's wrong? It is incomprehensible that the Foreign Minister did not even wish to give this report to the Chamber in confidence. It is also incomprehensible that the same minister did not wish to ask the Ukrainian authorities whether they would object in this particular case if the report were to be shared confidentially with the Chamber. I ask the Minister to explain this intelligibly. Let me now turn to the substance of the matter concerning the way in which the government has dealt with the Chamber on this report. The government has informed the Chamber that according to the report that we were not allowed to see, there may have been anti-aircraft weapons in the rebel region of eastern Ukraine. The text of the leaked report does not contain that word 'possibly' at all. How is that word interwoven? What's that word "possible" based on? The relative content of that word is in any case not to be distracted from the report, so again: why does the government tell us that in the briefing of the Ukrainian authorities there were possible anti-aircraft weapons in the rebel prayer? I'd like a clear and final reaction. What did the government then do with the information provided? The report shows that the Ukrainian authorities considered that their military aircraft, which Antonov, on 14 July, i.e. the day of the briefing, had crashed there from an altitude of 6,200 meters; it was shot down by Russian anti-aircraft weapons. Did our government have any reason to doubt that? Did our government have reason to conclude that the Ukrainian announcement that that plane had been shot down by anti-aircraft guns with the necessary grains of salt had to be taken, and could therefore be put aside? If that's the case, I'd really like to know. What has our government done with the knowledge that there may or may not have been anti-aircraft weapons in Ukraine? We know that this science was shared by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs with a number of other ministries, with Defence, General Affairs and Security and Justice, but not with the Ministry of Civil Aviation Safety, namely the Ministry of IenM. That's weird, and it's for the next reason. If the government knew that a plane from 6,200 metres altitude had been shot down with Russian anti-aircraft weapons, then there was still every reason for the government to consider what this could mean for civil aviation safety in that area. Do the ministers agree with me? Especially with the Defense Department it had to be known that anti-aircraft guns that can bring down an aircraft from 6,200 meters could reach much higher altitudes. It's unthinkable and insufferable that the DOD didn't know that. For example, the Buk rocket, standard Russian anti-aircraft gun, can reach up to 14,000 meters altitude, some variants even up to 19,000 meters. They know that in the D.O.D. Has the government considered this? I'd like an explicit answer. If so, what was the outcome of that consultation? If not, why wasn't that considered? Why wasn't this information shared directly with IenM? Ukraine had declared airspace above flight level 320 safe. How can that be consistent with the possible presence of Buk missiles that can go up to 14,000 metres in height? Has the government asked itself this question? Has the government asked Ukraine for clarification on this? If so, what was the Ukrainian statement, if no, why was no clarification requested? Flight MH17 flew on 17 July at flight level 330, at about 10,060 meters, so generously within the range of a Buk rocket.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u9	Mr. Chairman. It has been over nine months since the disaster with the MH17 aircraft found record. It is good to see that there is now at last a view on completing the first priorities of the cabinet: the storage of remains and the collection of passengers' personal belongings. There are now defence and police experts from the repatriation mission at the disaster site in Ukraine. The remains have been recovered again. Can it be stated what the latest state of affairs is? Can we assume that the utmost effort will be made to allow identification of all victims? I understand that the team of defence and police experts collects evidence that is relevant to the investigation of the deed and to the criminal investigation. What picture does the cabinet have of the evidence that might still be present at or around the disaster site? How reliable is such evidence, now that so much precious time has passed? In the state-of-the-art letter of 14 April, ministers wrote that new requests for legal aid were made to other countries. Can we say more about this? To which countries have these requests been made and can it also be explained why these requests have been made so late? Couldn't we have done that before? How is the cooperation of the countries to which requests for legal aid have been made so far? Is every request fully satisfied or are there any obstacles? It is important that other countries cooperate well with the investigations into the disaster. The same goes, of course, for the Netherlands itself. Answers to written questions from colleagues Omtzigt and Sjoerdsma recently showed that it took no less than six months for a crucial memo to be shared with the Research Council for Security. From a letter from today's cabinet, I understand that the Research Council did not request this document until January. That's remarkable. I would like to hear from the Cabinet whether all relevant material has been shared with the Research Council and with the perpetrators of the criminal investigation. Then it's also about information that wasn't asked for. I'd like to get a response. During the previous debate on the MH17 disaster, the Cabinet repeatedly stated that, if there is concrete threat information against civil aviation, the intelligence services via or in consultation with the NCTV inform the airlines directly. Despite the various indications that heavy anti-aircraft guns were present in eastern Ukraine, the airline companies were not informed, including from the memo held by Argos. I ask the Ministers to respond to this. Can it be explained exactly what is meant by "concrete threat information directed against civil aviation"? Can it also be stated whether in the past threat information has been reported to airlines at all? On this issue, can it be confirmed on the Gelderlander website that Germany did not warn its airlines about insecurity in the airspace in eastern Ukraine? Is it known to the Cabinet whether another country has advised its own companies to avoid this area? I would also like to ask the Ministers what airspace is currently or is not partially closed. What is the case, for example, with Yemen and Libya, where there are armed conflicts, when we do not know exactly what weapons are available to and against whom these weapons are being used? Can we go into a statement by defence experts, namely that anti-aircraft guns that an aircraft can shoot at 6.2 kilometres from the sky, which is very likely to be much higher? That would be inherent in such systems. Finally, there is criticism from Russia of the investigation into the MH17 disaster. Foreign Minister Lavrov stated at the end of February that the investigation would not be transparent. Lavrov specifically pointed out that air traffic control calls with the pilots of the aircraft have not yet been made public. Can this be addressed? Is the criticism justified or should the criticism be directed specifically at Russia itself, because of incomplete cooperation and incomplete openness? In a debate like this, the Chamber is forced to go after the facts. It is no different, because the facts are the subject of criminal investigations and other investigations. However, it is frustrating that during the journey we are constantly confronted with documents and facts that arrive late or only after disclosure by third parties with the relevant research institutions. I would ask the Cabinet to do its utmost to prevent this situation from happening again in the coming months. It is an extremely uncomfortable situation, as I know, both for the Chamber and for the next of kin.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u10	Mr. Chairman. It's been 280 days, but it's like it was yesterday. The first cautious signals, the confirmation of the unfathomable message, the press conference of the cabinet and the photos of sunflower fields. Then Minister Timmermans in New York, a funeral procession of 40 cases and a national memorial. 280 days ago, but also as if it were yesterday. The cabinet promised that the bottom stone would emerge and took action. We saw a resolution in New York, a meeting in Kiev and a crisis team in The Hague. That was all for the three priorities which I believe were widely supported in this Chamber, and certainly by D66. Of course, all the bodies and personal belongings had to come back. It is good to see that priority is approaching its completion. Of course, the Security Research Council has to investigate the situation. Of course, the state's attorney's office should be looking for suspects in peace. However, there were also issues that D66 questioned. There's a pattern of ambiguity. Before I go into that, I will first mention yesterday's incident, namely that a forensic anatomist shared sensitive information and photos with a study association. Minister Van der Steur called it distasteful. Of course I agree with that. But what exactly did the Minister find distasteful? That a presentation was given? That this one was public? That photos were used? I ask this because there are speculations that more presentations have been given and that they have also been approved. I therefore ask the Minister if this presentation has been given more often. And if so, to whom? Has the lead of the identification team approved this presentation? Did the police approve this presentation, too? Another issue on which I still have a lot of questions is the safety of civil aviation. In the previous debate, the cabinet said that, given the responsibilities, the right balance was made. That seemed and seems to me to be system thinking. The question is whether the right balance has been made looking at the available information. Secretary of State Mansveld insisted here that the system was followed. However, the question is whether that system is waterproof. There had to be a motion to encourage her, but she still does not show any sense of urgency in this area. When the Americans stopped flying over North Korea, she said: I am completely unaware of that. Now she tells journalists that she does not know why the Kiev memo was not sent to the Chamber. On the point that she is also talking about this, she said: I cannot answer that. However, this Secretary of State is about airspace. Yet she says over and over that she doesn't know. D66 wants flights to be as safe as possible and for passengers it does not matter whether they are flying British Airways, with KLM or Malaysia Airlines. Companies must have the same risk information. That's why the OVV is investigating escape routes. That's why the Chamber said: Cabinet, now go talk to the aviation sector. The PvdA and the VVD also rightly said that the safety system is not waterproof. Secretary of State's gonna let it go. She organized a little chat, planned a new chat and sent an empty letter. If the Chamber asks what is the analysis of our national civil aviation safety system, the Secretary of State says that it has not made a specific analysis of this. I find that incomprehensible when it comes to current flight routes. I am thinking of Libya, Yemen, North Korea, Syria, Iraq and Ukraine. Is the Secretary of State gonna do that now, or are we actually gonna wait till October? I'd like to hear her reaction. Minister Van der Steur said on TV that the perpetrators should be visibly prosecuted, if necessary by default. He had good hopes that this would happen, too. That would be nice, of course. What, however, is apparent from his own answers to Parliamentary questions? Actually, it's not that simple. That is why I ask him again today: why has Ukraine actually been asked to ensure that the amnesty regime does not apply to the MH17 perpetrators and Russia, especially now that the prosecution's investigation is likely to show that the perpetrators are of Russian nationality? My second question with regard to persecution is to what extent there is now agreement with Ukraine on the strategy of persecution. Finally, the period before the disaster and specifically the memo from Kiev of 14 July. On January 8, the cabinet said: absolutely, the OVV has that memo. But what does it turn out to be? The OVV only got it seven days later, six months after the disaster and after the news showed up, only after the OVV itself asked for it. That's what the minister writes this afternoon. The O.V.V. had to ask for it himself. How does the cabinet explain this? Does the OVV have to ask for everything? Does the OVV get active information? And most importantly, does the OVV now have all the relevant available information that the cabinet has, yes or no? I'm rounding up. It's been 280 days and it's still six months until the OVV report gets here. My group is still too often surprised by new information and by lack of clarity. About escape routes, the information, the prosecution. Today's outcome would be a good one if these surprises did not occur from now on, so that we only have to have one more debate on the MH17: the debate on the investigation of the OVV and the prosecution of the perpetrators.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u11	Mr. Chairman. I can only speak for two and a half minutes. Unfortunately, with deep respect for the next of kin, I have to go through staccato. More than nine months after the attack on the MH17, we are having a plenary debate on this for the first time today. It's something to be ashamed of. We are dealing with a prime minister who does not bring up the bottom stone, but pushes down ever further. His cabinet appears to be running a cover-up strategy and keeps important documents systematically secret, even from the Research Council, which was sent to the Kiev Memo only after publicity in the media. This leaked diplomatic report clearly shows that Minister Koenders has incompletely informed the Chamber. For example, he spoke only of the possible presence of heavy anti-aircraft guns, while the Dutch diplomats specifically confirmed that such equipment was on the scene. I'd like a response from the Minister to this. The cabinet wanted to withhold this memo, because it proves that the cabinet knew about the Russian aerial missiles present. Six ministers were informed, but then they did nothing at all. The government should, of course, have warned the airlines with this crucial information. Airmen's lawyers already argue that the Dutch government can be co-appointed. The fact that almost all documentation requested by the media is blacked out shows that the cabinet has something to hide. On the contrary, the Netherlands deserves absolute transparency about this terrible attack. My group's vision has been clear from the beginning. A parliamentary survey on the information position and decision-making in the cabinet remains necessary. It's about time for the truth. Russian involvement is becoming increasingly difficult to deny. A high Russian officer played a key role in transporting the Buk system to both the front and back to Russia. I will conclude with a very important question. What will the cabinet do if it turns out that Putin's regime is wholly or partly responsible for the murder of almost 200 Dutch people?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u12	Mr. Chairman. Since the disaster with the MH17 nine months ago, this is the sixth debate with the government. For the VVD, three priorities have been at the heart of all these debates. 1. That all victims, and preferably as many of their personal belongings as possible, are repatriated. That seems pretty advanced. 2. That there can be undisturbed investigation into the situation, whether or not at the disaster site, but at least at the military base in Gilze-Rijen. We have been able to see that for ourselves. 3. That the detection and trial of the perpetrators is taken to the left or right. Looks like the mission of the last few days has yielded new DNA and also a lot of personal belongings. Of the 298 victims, including 198 Dutch, two Dutch have still not been identified. Does the Secretary of State for Security and Justice expect the pitiful uncertainty of these relatives to be brought to an end? When will the salvage mission be completed if it's up to the minister? I understand that the burning site hasn't begun its excavation. Is that gonna work? Can good work be done at all in spite of all the difficult local conditions? Mine have been laid and there is a shaky peace truce. Then there are developments in the field of detection. Can we speak of a breakthrough in the investigation now the video of the Joint Investigation Team that was shown on March 30 has produced a few hundred reactions, of which dozens are useful? The video seems to point in the direction of a scenario that was only one of the scenarios the Research Council was looking at. Does it mean that most of the research capacity is now focused on one of the scenarios, let me call it the Buk scenario, I ask the Minister of Security and Justice. Then about the prosecution. The Minister of Security and Justice has promised to inform the Chamber of various possibilities of prosecution and trial as soon as the investigation permits. I have the feeling that the research is progressing well now and is also tending in a certain direction. Then the question about the prosecution will now become topical. I want to prevent the Netherlands from becoming responsible for the prosecution and trial process on its own. Does the government agree with me? Does the government therefore share the VVD's view that the starting point should be to maintain as much consensus as possible among the grieving nations, the countries that had victims on board? I therefore ask the government when it will inform us of the various possibilities of criminal proceedings, if necessary confidentially. Then it's about the avenged memo of July 14th. The VVD is not in favour of revealing diplomatic post, simply because it reduces the chance that the Netherlands will be informed confidentially. If anything is important now, it is that Dutch diplomats are informed. Then the important thing is that you do something with that information and that you interpret that information as well. The fact that the government does not actively share this information with us is one thing, but that the government that did not share it with the Research Council on its own should explain to the Minister of Security and Justice here. That the government wasn't happy about leaking this memo, I can imagine. However, I was pleased to note that the content of the memo is consistent with the written reply and also with the oral reply in the previous debate. There was a warning for aviation that was viewed entirely in a military context. This warning could have led to sanctions at the EU summit that followed, but never received a civil translation. That simply didn't occur in anyone's head. Not with the Ukrainians who were directly responsible for the airspace, not with the carriers Malaysia Airlines and KLM, and ultimately not in a Dutch ministry. There's been a structural error. Can the Secretary of State for Infrastructure and the Environment clarify the various responsibilities here? The responsibility lies primarily with the airspace owner Ukraine. Ukraine has closed its airspace, but not enough. The cabinet writes that national governments have no obligation to warn airlines if they see potential dangers above the airspace of another country. They are themselves responsible for the preparation and the risk weighting. As self-evident as it may have been in aviation in recent years, it is completely unsatisfactory for me and for my group. Against the backdrop of this tragedy, I would like to know from the Secretary of State what has been the outcome of the consultations with ICAO since the last time we talked about this. Like Mr Sjoerdsma, I would like that analysis on civil aviation to be carried out. At present, each country has sovereignty over its own airspace. It may decide whether or not to close it. Is that a starting point, as I ask the Secretary of State, but also the Minister of Foreign Affairs, in reality, given the many fireplaces and failed states in the world? This creates no-one's countries, we know that, but no one's airspace is created either. Should we not come to a different classification? I realize that the Dutch government cannot be responsible for airspace around the world. I also realize that if we put all the Buk-like systems on the map and were to correlate possible unstable countries with them, we might be able to fly almost nowhere. But can we entrust the primary responsibility for airspace to a state if it is no longer de facto sovereign over part of its territory or part of its own airspace? Don't the fireplaces in our world today ask for a review of that system? Should we not look carefully at the precise responsibility of the airline and the chosen flight route? Finally, I come to yesterday's astonishing news about Professor Maat's lecture. I want to be very clear about that. Professor Maat has gone far beyond his bounds with his statements. He has caused a great deal of unnecessary suffering to the next of kin. The VVD finds it incomprehensible and also inappropriate. I want to know if the next of kin were notified before RTL came up with the news. My group would also like to know whether Professor Maat, who has now expressed regret, can continue to be involved in this investigation. I understand there's been more of these kinds of presentations. I would like to clarify that today, during this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u13	I hear Mr Ten Broeke say that we cannot exclude all airspace from countries where a Buk rocket might be. I agree with him on that. However, is Mr Ten Broeke also of that opinion in relation to an air space where an aircraft was shot down three days before at an altitude of 6,200 metres? Shouldn't we start thinking about whether there could be a Buk rocket and whether that might be dangerous if you fly a little higher?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u14	It's much stronger. I've been talking about a structural flaw here. That hasn't been considered. Apparently, it didn't occur to anyone. The first person in charge of airspace, Ukraine, has closed the airspace to 9.7 kilometres. In his own contribution, Mr De Roon has made it very clear that this is not enough. Of course, we have all noticed this, because otherwise this tragedy would not have happened. In aviation, it is customary to follow the airspace owner. I am now asking whether we can still do that in a time with so many fireplaces. I therefore hope that this analysis will indeed be carried out by civil aviation. You may have serious doubts as to whether sovereignty could actually be maintained in this case.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u15	I think we agree on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u16	I think so, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u17	We both think that we should consider that. I also have the question as to whether Mr Ten Broeke thinks that the government should have considered this in the period after 14 July, i.e. in the following days.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u18	I have just said that I can very well imagine that the threat was mainly seen in a military context, especially in view of the fact that the briefing was very clearly intended from the perspective of those who gave that briefing and the Ukrainian Government. Last week we were allowed to speak with the representative and the man who gave this briefing, Mr Klimkin. The threat was mainly seen in a military context, and also directly in the wake of the forthcoming European summit, where sanctions had to be decided. With the leaking of this memo, all the names and numbers have become known. As a result, we now know that the American Ambassador made that plea very emphatically. They may not have been that happy in Washington, but we know that now. In this context it will probably be understood. That is why I ask the government to share the analysis that a mistake has been made here. I would like to ask whether this structural error, which we actually found during the previous debate, does not call for an analysis and a review. I know that the Secretary of State is in the process of making progress with ICAO. We heard that from her last time. I am very curious to hear the government's answers in that regard.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u19	Mr Van Bommel has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u20	I don't see Mr. Van Bommel.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u21	Excuse me, I meant Mr Bontes, but I see Mr De Roon still wants to respond. We are trying to do two-way interruptions, but Mr De Roon has another follow-up question that he would like to ask.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u22	Yes, I'd love to, Mr. Chairman. I'll be brief. I hear Mr Ten Broeke say: well, they have thought too militaryly in Kiev about all that information in those days after 14 July.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u23	That's my guess, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u24	That's his guess. Mr Ten Broeke then referred to a'system error'. However, I do not want to talk about systems. I would like to know from Mr Ten Broeke whether he thinks that, on the basis of the information available, the Dutch Government should have realised something itself? Should the Dutch Government have realised what this could mean for civil aviation safety? I don't want to hear about a system right now, but I just want to get an answer to this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u25	I would like to give the answer, but with that I would anticipate an answer that I myself asked for. In the current system, the first and primary responsibility lies with the owner of the airspace. At least that's what it's become of me, but I've just asked the Secretary of State to make that clear. The government then indicated to us that it was not supposed to be held responsible for informing the airlines, even if there was a danger. I believe that this system needs to be revised, given the knowledge we have now. For this reason, I ask you to detect, identify and analyse the system errors and to propose solutions to them. I admit, in order to meet Mr De Roon, that I am now answering some of the questions I have put to the government in the first place.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u26	I am asking a question on Mr De Roon's question, because Mr Ten Broeke talks too much to me with flour in his mouth. I'd like to try to get him to make a clear statement. If you get the information from the diplomats of the embassy at the ministry, if the link is made directly between the taking down of the Antonov and the Buk system, if you hear the clear language of NATO General Breedlove and if you get general information that almost 20 aircraft have been taken down, including helicopters and fighter jets, doesn't Mr Ten Broeke think that the government has a duty to go actively, independently of structures and systems, and to discuss it with the airlines?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u27	The answer is no different. If you could have connected all those elements on the same desk and then reached that conclusion, action should have followed. I hope that, as in the previous debate, we can all see that the necessary changes in the structure are needed. First of all, countries which no longer have their own airspace should no longer be considered to have full sovereignty. De facto, therefore, that is no longer the case. That is why we must insist on a system change. I am doing the same on behalf of my group, and I did so last time. That concludes the answer to Mr Bontes' question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u28	Again that system of linking ministries! It's shared with six ministries, including Defense. You can't just sit back because the system doesn't oblige you to go to those airlines? Isn't it the core task of the state to protect its citizens? Then you can't refer to a system, can you?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u29	Unlike Mr Bontes, I do not draw the conclusion that people have leaned back in full knowledge that there would be a direct security problem here. This is different from the security problem outlined in the context of the briefing, namely that there was an increasing military threat in eastern Ukraine and that there were weapons available that would have shot 19 aircraft and the Antonov. In this context, it was perceived as an increasing threat and there was therefore a need to impose sanctions. It's been dealt with. It has been overlooked that perhaps a different conclusion could have been drawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u30	From what Mr Ten Broeke has said, he is, like me, quite dissatisfied with the work that Secretary of State Mansveld is doing at the moment. It must start analysing national aviation safety systems. I have another question about the system error that Mr Ten Broeke is talking about. What is this system error according to the VVD fraction?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u31	I have taken the Minister's written response as the starting point for my contribution now. I have not yet heard the answer here, nor has Mr Sjoerdsma. Before we put qualifications as "disgruntled," I'd say "hold your horses." I expect the Secretary of State to state what progress has been made since the last time she held consultations in ICAO in Canada and reported to us on this. The system error I see here is that in aviation and in civil aviation it is always assumed that the sovereign owner of the airspace can determine whether the airspace should be closed down or not. They're totally following. In that docile attitude, as I call it, it seems to me to have been quite a mistake. You can see that, too. Other responsibilities will then be discussed. They lie first and foremost with the airlines that decide whether or not to fly East Ukraine. A number of these airlines had already decided not to fly over Crimea, but in that case it was clear that sovereignty was no longer present. I say that sovereignty can also be called into question if there is such a military threat. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State, this cabinet, that that analysis is being made. I want to see it, too, just like you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u32	Let me get this straight. The analysis I asked for is also specifically about the national security system. To make sure that Mr Ten Broeke and I are talking about the same thing: Mr Ten Broeke therefore wants the Secretary of State, contrary to what she is doing now, to say: I have not analysed the national security system and I am not going to do so until the Research Council comes forward with such an analysis, and I am going to do so as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u33	No, I'm saying an analysis needs to be made as I just described it. The Netherlands cannot be held responsible for the whole world, as I have just made clear. The analysis needs to be made. Of course, this is also linked to a national context. I imagine the Secretary of State says she wants to include the investigation of the Research Council. After all, why anticipate that? But it seems obvious to me that this includes a national component. In the end, I expect this in the conclusions drawn by the government and the corresponding analysis. So that analysis has to be made, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u34	Mr. Chairman. Nine months after the disaster. Once again, human remains and personal belongings of victims are being recovered. Once again, we are confronted with the terrible consequences of this indescribable disaster. Still, we all feel sorry for the next of kin. Once again, on behalf of my group, I would like to pay tribute to all those, researchers, experts and supporters who are constantly working to ease the suffering and help to find out what happened. The first and most important task of the cabinet itself, the repatriation of all victims and personal belongings, is approaching its completion. The studies have also continued very much over the last nine months. There's been a lot of new information. The joint investigation team showed at the end of March Mr Ten Broeke just spoke about a video containing images of a Buk missile system and sound fragments from telephone calls. Hundreds of responses, dozens of them useful. Perhaps it would have been better to make such a call earlier afterwards? For many questions, my group is, of course, prepared to await the investigation. I try to confine myself to questions that I believe are important, regardless of the outcome of the investigation. One of these questions concerns the alarming information from the memo of 14 July that has been leaked. The memo is widely shared, but did not lead to action. Was that because the information itself did not give sufficient cause or because no one felt directly responsible for taking action? I would like to join with colleagues in asking questions about this. It seems that uncertainty about the situation is continuing for a while. On the one hand, all kinds of possible evidence passes through the review, but on the other hand, the report from the OVV, which hopefully will provide insight into the events, will come only in the autumn, and not, as we had hoped earlier, in the summer. What's with the delay? Could the cabinet perhaps say a little more about that? What happens in the meantime towards Russia? We see and know that the sanctions against Russia, which partly run until the end of July and partly until the beginning of September, will expire. I assume, however, that the Netherlands will not in any way agree to soften the sanctions, let alone end them until the investigation is completed and there are so many indications that Russia is involved in this crime. Can the Minister confirm that? In the meantime, does the cabinet consider an adequate response towards Russia if the investigation shows what we already strongly suspect? There has been some confusion about this, we have already discussed the text of the Minsk Agreement on possible amnesty for persons associated with events "in certain areas of the provinces of Donetsk and Luhansk'. The cabinet, according to the Minister in his letter of 14 April, considers that the amnesty arrangement does not concern those responsible for taking down flight MH17. "Mean" sounds a little hesitant. I may hear a hesitation in that, but I hope the Minister can reassure me on that point. In the debate on the MH17 in February, we discussed air traffic safety in detail. Colleagues have already asked questions about this. What is the situation, I ask the Secretary of State, with the ICAO database? To what extent has it been set up and completed? What contribution has the Netherlands made so far? How many countries already share information and how has the Netherlands been approached? In three months, a year after the disaster, the victims' next of kin will commemorate their loved ones. We will do that with them, later on 17 July, but also tomorrow and now that we are here tonight. We do so in the hope and expectation that the latest victims will be identified, that the facts will be known and that the perpetrators will be tried.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u35	Mr. Chairman. Today I watched the impressive photo reportage of the Dutch photographer Ilvy. Bedrooms, an office, a drum set, a nursery. Silent witnesses to what was once, but will not come again. Took people out of life. A huge void left behind. The MH17. Those two letters and those two numbers are carved in the collective memory of the Netherlands. Now, nine months on, 296 victims have been identified and investigations are in full swing. Meanwhile, the criminal investigation focuses strongly on the scenario of the Russian Buk missile from Ukrainian territory. Today's debate is on the agenda because of the need for the Chamber to discuss information. That is especially about the now so infamous memo. The Christian Union Group understands that diplomatic memos cannot simply be shared with the Chamber. The Court should be expected to exercise restraint not to disrupt ongoing investigations and confidential diplomatic movements. Unfortunately, the story does not stop there: the memo has been leaked and the parliamentary questions have been answered. My group still has a number of questions about this. The most important question that my group wants to clarify today is why it has taken so long for the Security Research Council to receive this memo from the Cabinet. This only happened in January 2015, after the necessary commotion had arisen. Why only at the request of the OVV and not at the own initiative of the cabinet? Can the OVV now have all the relevant information it needs? I'd like a response. My group does not want to speculate on how to proceed with the memo. For us, it remains important to learn lessons for the future now, when it comes to the exchange of information on safety, in particular safety for air carriers. What concrete progress has been made to improve the exchange of information on security? Mr Ten Broeke was right to ask written questions about the report that a Russian museum would have displayed wreckage of the MH17. In the reply, the Minister states that both Ukraine and Russia would have no knowledge of this. For this reason, the cabinet does not have any indications that this would indeed be an exhibition of wreckage. The cabinet can therefore neither confirm nor deny the message. Does the Minister see any possibility of monitoring the matter closely through the Dutch diplomatic staff in Russia and keeping the Chamber informed? The possible display of wreckage is simply unacceptable. Then there's the appearance of the pathologist and member of the identification team. This has leaked confidential information during a public educational performance. I can be brief about that. It is especially sad for the next of kin that they are once again confronted with painful memories. I understand, therefore, that this gentleman has now become inactive. I have two more questions. Have similar presentations been given before? Has permission been granted to do so? Then who gave that permission? I will conclude with a word of thanks to all those professionals who have been working hard since the disaster; the policemen, soldiers, caregivers, identification teams and the diplomats of Foreign Affairs. My group hopes that the ongoing investigations can be concluded as soon as possible and that the perpetrators of this brutal and cowardly attack can be tried quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u36	Mr. Chairman. I note with other speakers that the terrible disaster was nine months ago, but that we are all working on it almost every day, not least the people involved, who lost their families. Last week the so-called Coalition of the Grieving met, of the countries that have all lost nationals in this terrible disaster. The Minister of Security and Justice said at the end: now that we are very far away from the repatriation of remains and personal belongings and the investigation into the cause of the crash is coming to an end, detection and prosecution are becoming more central. It is also my hope, I must say, that this will be the case. I would like to address the three well-known priorities of the cabinet and the security of airspace. As far as repatriation is concerned, I agree with colleagues' questions about the state of affairs today, about the situation in the place itself and about the expectations of identifying the last people. Then the tests. We have previously found that there are no less than five parallel investigations; three by the Research Council and two others. One of these is, at the request of my group, an evaluation of the crisis council of the cabinet itself. This is carried out by the WODC. Thanks for the information we got about that. Support for the approach, but it is of course of the utmost importance that these studies are carried out with the utmost care. Let me deal with two points. Firstly, I come to the provision of information, which is part of today's debate. It is very important and essential that all documents are shared with the various research institutions. We have also received this important commitment before. That goes for the OVV, but, as I understand from the pieces, also for the WODC. The CDA colleague just said that parts of those documents would have been declared state secret and could therefore not be investigated by the WODC. My lecture is that the WODC can do this, but it's still being watched before it finally goes out. One of the two lectures must be true. I would like a confirmation that the WODC also has all relevant pieces. It seems obvious to me that good agreements are being made on what needs to be given to the OVV, but that there is also a certain proactive division by the cabinet. In this respect, I agree with previous questions. Then I'll come to the forensics. A lot has been said about this yesterday and today. I recognise the words used by the Minister of Security and Justice for this purpose. Photos and information have been brought out. What exactly was consent given? I understand that we have been given permission to give lectures. Who gave that permission? The Vliegramp MH17 Foundation, delivered by these reports, has today requested a ban on the use of photos, at least as long as the identification process has not yet been completed. What is the government's opinion on this understandable request from the next of kin? Then I'll come to the prosecution. Hopefully that's where the attention's headed now. We're in the research section now. Last year's middle Security Council resolution made a clear appeal to all countries to cooperate. I do not think that there is any consensus on how to deal with the persecution at international level as well. It's a precarious process. For example, we see a similar discussion in the European Union about sanctions. As time progresses, we see that the consensus in the international community to take firm action, including against Russia, is not self-evident. How does the Cabinet intend to do this? Do we want to go to an MH17 tribunal or are other options being considered? I understand that a new memorial ceremony will take place on July 17th. I thank the Cabinet for making this possible. I would also like to thank the Fly-Ramp MH17 Foundation, which is involved in the organisation. I think anyone who's lost a loved one knows how it feels when the first day of the year approaches. You can feel that date getting closer, and you need a lot of strength for that. I wish everyone every success.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u37	This brings to an end the first term of office. The cabinet has indicated that it will take some time to prepare itself for the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u38	Mr. Chairman. It is good that nine months after the terrible disaster with the MH17 we are talking about this again. It is also a good thing that the Chamber keeps its finger on the wrist. As many Members of the Chamber have said, the bottom stone must rise and justice is paramount, out of respect for the victims and their families. On behalf of the cabinet, I say that we have great confidence in the many aid workers, police officers, civilian workers, military, diplomats and researchers working on this day and night. With your permission, Madam President, I would first like to answer the questions about international political contacts and efforts: the situation in Ukraine, the Minsk agreement and the amnesty arrangement, the role of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) and the United Nations (UN) and the diplomatic briefing of 14 July and its report. As the Minister of Defence is absent, I will speak on her behalf on security policy on the ground in eastern Ukraine. The Minister of Security and Justice will focus on the criminal investigation, the investigation of the Research Council for Security (OVV), the baggage and debris, the repatriation, the care of the survivors, the commemoration and the responsibility of aviation security. Since the Minister of Defence is absent, he will also speak about the repatriation mission. The Secretary of State for I and M will discuss airspace safety, the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) and the various aspects involved, including the NOTAMs (Notice to Airmen). I shall begin with the answer from my responsibility as Foreign Minister. The Court has addressed the need to create an international basis for the resolution of the disaster with the MH17. The cabinet has stated that the resolution of the disaster with the MH17 is of the highest priority and is carried out through three tracks: repatriation, investigation into the deed and criminal investigation, including prosecution. That is still the case. We owe this to the victims and their families, whether they are Dutch or other nationalities. The latter was an important point in the discussions that Mr Van der Steur and I have had over the last few days, including at the Global Conference on CyberSpace 2015 (GCCS) last week. There is constant appreciation for the way in which the Netherlands implements the resolution of the disaster with the MH17. That is what we are getting support for. I am referring to the manner in which repatriation and identification have taken place, the interpretation by the Research Council for Security and the Public Prosecutor's Office of the leading role of the Netherlands in the investigations and the way in which the cabinet continues to draw international attention to the independence of the investigations and the need for the perpetrators not to go unpunished. It is important to involve the other countries constantly. Last week, on the initiative of the cabinet, the entire diplomatic corps in The Hague was updated by the Public Prosecutor and the OVV, of course in general terms. This was greatly appreciated. There is also a large number of international contacts to maintain support. I myself spoke with German Minister Steinmeier, with Mrs Mogherini, with the Prime Minister at the OAS Summit in Panama and at the Boao Forum for Asia in China, because this is an international matter. There is therefore broad support for the implementation of the three priorities of the Cabinet for the resolution of the disaster with the MH17. Over the past period, the emphasis has been on repatriation and salvage in this area, much progress has been made and access to the area has been made. Now that this task has almost been completed, the Minister of V and J will deal with it in greater detail, the attention, also internationally, is shifting towards the proper conduct of investigations and the prosecution of the perpetrators. This can also be seen from the statements adopted regularly in international fora, whether at the initiative of the Netherlands or not. For example, thanks to the efforts of the Netherlands in the latest UN Security Council resolution on the situation in Ukraine, that is Resolution No. 2002 of 13 February 2015............................................................................................................................................................................................... 2166 recorded. I shall come back to that later, following Mr Van Ojik's question on the amnesty regime. The Netherlands will ensure that the UN Security Council remains well informed about the Dutch progress on these three tracks. We are investing in good bilateral relations with the members of the UN Security Council, so that there is international support for these efforts. That's also what it takes to get people in court later. Next week I will travel to New York to talk to several members of the UN Security Council about this. The cabinet is committed to maintaining cooperation. In a statement on Resolution 2202, Malaysia, the Netherlands and six other grieving nations have agreed that every member of the United Nations will have to cooperate in the investigation necessary to prosecute the perpetrators. I'll come back to the question about the amnesty. The conscious explanation of the grieving nations was symbolically of great importance. In this way, it was reiterated that this group of countries is acting in an internationally effective way and that the Netherlands is not alone in this respect either. That's important. It is always important to act effectively with them, with the same rhythm, and that everyone agrees with that. That is also one of the reasons for the meetings that Mr Van der Steur and I have attended over the last few days. During these meetings it became clear that the detection and prosecution of the perpetrators is important not only for the countries that had people on board, but for the whole world. This is already enshrined in UN Resolution 2166. This is a resolution that calls on all countries, without exception, to cooperate in international investigations and prosecution of the perpetrators. Civil aviation is vulnerable and any security breach is a global shared concern. During my visit to New York I will also give follow-up to this contact with the grieving nations. Prior to the meeting of the grieving nations, we spoke with the Ukrainian Foreign Minister Klimkin. I believe the Chamber has spoken to him as well. We also spoke with my Australian colleague Judy Bishop. We also keep in close contact with people in the Joint Investigation Team (JIT), such as Malaysian and Belgian Foreign Ministers. Now that detection and prosecution are becoming more central, close political links with these countries are important to have a good strategy together and to be at the same level of expectation. Those are the countries that participate in the JIT. That point will be dealt with by Mr Van der Steur. I come to speak about the Minsk agreements and the security situation at the site. Since the last consultations we have had, the necessary steps have also been taken to bring the conflict in eastern Ukraine to a political solution. The Chamber followed that. We have also exchanged this in a number of debates. There is now a package of measures implementing the Minsk Protocol and the Supplementary Memorandum of September 2014. It is also important for this matter that the UN Security Council subsequently ratifys those agreements. Since then, the countries concerned in the so-called Normandy consultations, Germany, France, Ukraine and Russia have held regular consultations on the further implementation of this agreement. At present, it can be concluded that the last Minsk agreement, following an initial escalation around Debaltseve, has resulted in a clear reduction in the intensity of the armed conflict. We have also said that this is still very fragile and that we must remain sceptical about it. That's actually a different subject. It is about the fact that the decline in the number of fighting in that particular region has so far had a positive impact on the safety of the crash site, which now gives the repatriation mission better access to the area. This shift of the line or contact has caused a small amount of heavy weaponry to be located around the crash site. As is well known, the mission has not been able to investigate both burn sites and the area around Petropavlovka in the north during previous visits. Now that the security situation has generally improved, it is possible to work on the ground, and then possibly in a continuous period of several weeks, which is important. Minister Van der Steur will discuss this further. It is possible that the fighting between separatist groups and the Ukrainian armed forces will resume after the current recovery period. On the one hand, the pro-Russian separatists may have the intention of extending the controlled part of Ukrainian territory. On the other hand, the warring parties are probably aware that they lack military capacity to force a military decision. We are, of course, in close contact with the OSCE on this matter. The situation is therefore positive for this work. Hopefully we can work together longer. We are also assisted by the local emergency response agency, the State Emergency Service of Ukraine, which provides support on the ground with the assistance of the OSCE. I would like to say once again that the local authorities and local residents have played a positive role in the aftermath of the disaster in this very dangerous situation for them. I would like to emphasise once again how important this has been and that the cabinet is grateful for the assistance given in an exceptionally difficult situation for the inhabitants. We are now figuring out how to thank these people. We'll let the Chamber know about that. Because of the persistent poor security situation, this was not possible before, but we are going to look into it now. A number of questions have been asked about the amnesty issue. The Minsk Accords also agreed that Ukraine would adopt a law regulating the amnesty for events in the provinces of Donetsk and Luhansk. In the stand-of-business letter sent last week, the Cabinet stated that such an amnesty law would not apply to the perpetrators of the MH17 taking down. Given the importance of the issue, I would like to explain this once again. The amnesty law on which the new Minsk agreements are based was also included in the Minsk Protocol, which was concluded by the same parties in September 2014. Such a law was adopted by the Ukrainian Parliament on 16 September, but was never submitted to the President for signature. The reason for this is that several human rights organisations objected to the fact that this could lead to amnesty for persons suspected of serious crimes. So I'm not talking about the MH17. That would go on. Even fewer people would be eligible for the amnesty scheme. As far as amnesty is concerned, however, the law makes an explicit exception for the perpetrators of the MH17 disaster and for those who make the investigation difficult. There is now a new parliament. This also means that a new legislative proposal is needed to implement the Minsk agreements of 12 February 2015. However, as long as there is no law on this matter, the current Ukrainian legislation does not currently provide for amnesty. According to Ukrainian criminal law, the perpetrators of bringing down the MH17 could and should be prosecuted anyway. Of course, I'm monitoring developments. The embassy also has regular contact with the Ukrainian authorities on this matter. The Chamber was previously informed by letter of the fact that on 12 February the Prime Minister received a clear guarantee from President Poroshenko that the amnesty legislation to which the last Minsk agreement refers will not apply to the potential perpetrators of or those responsible for bringing down the MH17. That is important because, as I have just said, the President will sign such a law. Minister Klimkin also assured me several times, even last Thursday during our meeting in The Hague. Apart from that side of Ukraine, there is the multilateral side, I say to Mr Van Ojik. Internationally, the cabinet has also taken steps to ensure that there can be no amnesty for the perpetrators of the MH17. That's just diplomatic work: influence where necessary. In Resolution 2166, adopted on 25 July 2014, the Security Council calls for the perpetrators of the disaster to be held accountable and for all States to cooperate. I quote paragraph 11: "The Security Council demands that those responsible for this incident be held to account and that all States cooperate fully with efforts to establish accountability'. Amnesty for those responsible for taking down flight MH17 would not be in agreement with this. To underline this again, the Netherlands has successfully committed itself to including a direct reference to Resolution 2166 in Security Council Resolution 2202 on the last Minsk Accords: "The Security Council Reaffirming its Resolution 2166 (2014)." The cabinet, as I have just outlined, has been built together with other grieving nations. In addition to the Security Council resolutions, we are talking about the track Ukraine....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... This Convention provides, inter alia, that the perpetrators of such crimes must be extradited or tried. Russia, Ukraine and the Netherlands are, among other things, parties to this Convention. In this context, I would also like to say that the Council of Europe has had an initial discussion of the questions raised by Mr Omtzigt. In accordance with his motion, the Netherlands is committed to an early response. Through our permanent representation in Strasbourg, I have been kept closely informed. I can inform the Chamber that this process seems to be going well and fairly quickly at the moment. I cannot give further details about it now, but I will inform the Chamber immediately as soon as the questions have been answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u39	Thanks for the last. We're still well within the time limit in the motion. I understand it can't be public. The Ukraine track has turned out perfectly well to ensure that Ukraine does not feel that there should be amnesty. The other country where there might be an unsub, I would say "could" be Russia. Has the Russian Government been asked at any time directly in a public conversation or directly in a closed conversation whether it agrees that the Minsk II agreements do not apply? I ask that all the more so because Minister van der Steur said in his intervention in Nieuwsuur that trial might also be possible in absentia. Fortunately, the Minister is now saying that they are not; they are obliged to extradite. Verstelk would mean that there is no cooperation. Do we have Russia's guarantee that the Russians will cooperate in extradition if there are any suspects there?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u40	That point should be answered by the Minister for Security and Justice. What I can say is this. The question you yourself raised within the Council of Europe is directly related to that. In this sense, you will have an answer quickly; that will be fairly quick, in my opinion. He can answer that directly. In addition, you understand that the amnesty scheme concerns Ukraine specifically. All the other countries are committed to what is in the UN resolutions. It is not my business to go to one country or another without the investigation being completed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u41	Ukraine still has formal jurisdiction over East Ukraine, but no actual power on the ground. That is covered by the Minsk agreements, but we have not yet arrived at them. In fact, Russia and Russia-related organisations exercise effective authority. A formal statement that they will cooperate would be highly desirable in the view of the CDA Group. After all, there may be a slight misunderstanding that no exception is made in Minsk, but in another place. At a late stage, a Russian powerist could say that this is an exception in Minsk, so I am not obliged to cooperate; the amnesty is in an agreement that we have signed. That is why we believe that we should also have that insurance from Russia. How this should be done, whether it is regulated in a direct conversation with a minister or President Putin, or through the Council of Europe or otherwise, I leave it to the government. We should also have assurances from Russia that the Russians will cooperate in the prosecution if a suspect is on Russian territory. I would remind you once again of Security Council resolutions which Russia has agreed to and which Russia is therefore committed to. It asks exactly what you are talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u42	We can only see that the drafting of the Security Council resolutions has been good work. It is strange to note that you do not consider the Security Council resolutions for Ukraine to be adequate. Poroshenko was explicitly asked to give the guarantee that that amnesty would not apply. For us, these Security Council resolutions are sufficient. How does Minister Koenders explain that difference?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u43	That difference is very easy to explain, because it is a Ukrainian amnesty law. They make that law, and that's why it has to be in it. Let me make no mistake about it. Because the Netherlands has made such an effort that it applies to the entire international community, there are clear and compelling Security Council resolutions. This also applies to the ICAO Convention. Let us just not anticipate conclusions. I'm not going to speculate, because I think that's wrong. We have the conditions to ensure that the international community has been deployed to bring the people who are guilty of this terrible disaster to justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u44	The video from the Public Prosecutor's Office does indeed show very strong indications that they are likely to be perpetrators of Russian nationality. These perpetrators have now crossed the border of Russia. The cabinet has no guarantee that Russia will cooperate. I ask this because previous agreements with Russia have also not been met, whether it is the investigation into the abuse of a diplomat or the investigation into the death of RTL cameraman Stan Storimans. Where does this minister base his confidence that Russia will cooperate with this case?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u45	I think you're putting a lot of things together now that actually have nothing to do with each other. Mr Van der Steur can answer questions about the film better as responsible. I would like to say on this point: it is about different scenarios. You know that, and that's what the video says. No advance is therefore made on any outcome of the investigation. I'm not going to speculate about that for the sake of the case itself. That's point one. I don't know, as no one knows now, what the O.V.V. and the D.A. are about to decide. So I'm not going to speculate about that and I'm not going to anticipate it. In the video it is also clearly stated at the beginning that there are different scenarios. You can all have your own ideas about that, all wonderful, but that's how we're supposed to work to get results. Secondly, it is up to the Dutch Government to ensure that international law and agreements with countries provide for extradition. That is what the Dutch Government can do, and I cannot anticipate that further. Then I come to the report of the diplomatic briefing on 14 July. As reported in the letter of office and in the answers to parliamentary questions, the Cabinet regrets that the report of the briefing of 14 July 2014 was leaked. We have indicated the reason for this on several occasions. I'd like to say it again. It doesn't have anything to do with fog. It also has nothing to do with lack of openness in the cabinet. I want to ensure that this type of information will continue to be provided to the Dutch Government. This means that reports of such briefings and other diplomatic contacts must be treated confidentially. Why? Because such reports may also include the views of the host country and of representatives of other countries. Confidentiality is crucial for the proper functioning of international diplomatic traffic. Everyone knows that; otherwise you just don't get the information, not even that crucial information that the Chamber is right to always think the Cabinet should look very closely at. It's not about whether or not countries complain to us. In general, such a breach of confidentiality makes it more difficult for Dutch diplomats to conduct confidential conversations with international interlocutors. It is really undesirable to get into the situation in which the Netherlands receives no or less information. I give you a note that this is going to happen immediately because our international interlocutors no longer have confidence in the Netherlands. I also think it is important that Dutch diplomats do not feel constrained to report internally on what they hear and observe in international consultation, and to note on that, including their assessments. Many diplomatic documents contain information that has been exchanged confidentially with other countries or international institutions. It would harm the Dutch position if it were to be assumed that this information should be made public in the Netherlands. Disclosure would undermine the necessary confidentiality and effectiveness of the negotiation process in diplomatic matters. I will come back to the content of the report and to what has happened to it, but I would like to answer a question about the OVV. I believe there was also a question about the WODC, but Mr Van de Steur will answer that. What I can say is that confidentiality does not, of course, prevent the sharing of the report with the OVV. That is why the cabinet shared the report with the OVV. More generally, I would like to stress first that the cabinet fully cooperates in the investigations of the OVV. The OVV has access to all the documents it needs for the purposes of the investigation, i.e. without exception. The Cabinet attaches great importance to the fact that the investigations can be carried out in depth and that the OVV has all relevant information at its disposal. The cabinet therefore had good contacts with the research council from the moment the OVV started investigating the disaster with the MH17 and stated that the board can count on the full cooperation of the government. In addition, pursuant to Article 40 of the National Security Research Council Act, the Ministry is obliged to grant the OVV access to all information that the OVV considers relevant. Well, that's important. So it doesn't mean that the government itself is going to select it again. Then we would select what we find interesting for the OVV. That's the opposite way. It is therefore up to the OVV to decide what is relevant to the investigation. That is why the report of 14 July was shared after the OVV indicated its intention to involve this in its research. On 6 January 2015, the OVV requested the report of 14 July. You're getting it all very precisely now, before you think there's any fog. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has undertaken to make this report available immediately. Due to the diligence of the investigation, it is agreed with the OVV that this request should also be recorded in writing. The request was submitted by letter dated Friday 9 January 2015 and received on Monday 12 January 2015. The Ministry handed over the report on Thursday 15 January. In the same letter, the OVV requested in writing all communications between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Embassy in Kiev between 1 March and 31 August 2014. Of course, the relevant documents have also been made available to the OVV. I would like to inform you that I am not aware of any complaint from the OVV and the D.A. regarding lack of cooperation in the ongoing investigations. On the contrary, where necessary and possible, and within the independence of the investigations, we are building up together. I mentioned earlier as an example the joint briefing of the OVV and the public prosecutor to the corps diplomaticique. We will therefore respond to any request made by the OVV. Again, that is the request of the OVV as it has been established. If the OVV wants more information in a different way, also in generic terms, then so be it. There is no problem with that, nor any complaint about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u46	This was the part about the OVV. I think there are a few questions about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u47	It's been six months. So that memo has been on a desk somewhere for six months, without an official, a minister or a secretary of state thinking that this might be a relevant document for the OVV. Why didn't anyone think about that? Only when the request came out and when the memo came out via a leak, it was transferred to the OVV. Why not much sooner?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u48	This is a certain interpretation of the relevance or non-reliance of that particular piece. The selection will not be made by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, because the OVV says exactly: we want to determine what documents we get. Any piece the O.V.V. wants, he can get. That could also be a generic piece. There's no problem there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u49	This shows a great passivity on the part of the cabinet. Anyone can count on this as a crucial memo. It should have been passed on as soon as the cabinet had it. That was six months earlier. We're not going to sit back instead of providing the OVV with important, relevant information? This isn't a defense, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u50	Again, it is up to the OVV to request documents. That's the law and the rule. That is no reason for us not to make something proactively available, but it is not up to the cabinet to select the documents that go there either. That would be the reverse world. That's exactly what the OVV doesn't want.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u51	The government says that we cannot select it, and the law requires the OVV to request it. So basically, you need to know what to ask for. That's what publicity was for in this case. So let us at least note that the document has been provided on it well after the publication. We can agree on that, can't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u52	Mr Van der Steur will later comment on the legal aspect, because he deals with the OVV. Apart from that, I would like to say that everything that has been requested is delivered from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It is not the case that something is being withheld because the OVV would have to find out for itself. The Chamber knows how the O.V.V. works. The OVV has a huge experience, unfortunately also with this type of plane crashes. Very specific categories of documents have already been requested. There is therefore no private selection of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u53	There is no private selection by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but the OVV must know what it is looking for. The OVV has clearly decided, as a result of the publicity, to ask a very generic, broad question. Can we assume that all relevant information is now supplied in bulk?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u54	I can't talk for the O.V.V. He's conducting the investigation, and he's doing it independently. The O.V.V. can get anything he wants. This also happens proactively by category and it remains so. So there's no other way to operate than it should be.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u55	I'm gonna ask the same question again. There is a difference between the fact that no selection is made and the fact that all the information available about this disaster was not actively sought and could be considered relevant. This could simply have been swept together and made available to the OVV. I see two parties waiting for each other. You'll need the publicity to get something done.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u56	I really don't see it that way. I don't think this is primarily about publicity. It has to do with the OVV's desire to ask at some point for something that has apparently become important in the public debate. Then it's up to the OVV to ask those questions. Once again, nothing is being withheld. The OVV also works very well with us. There's no problem at all. It is not suggested that it should be different in some way, and even if it should be, then we are open to it. If the OVV would say tomorrow: we want everything in this area, I say: be my guest, because we all want the OVV to do that research well.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u57	I would like to support Mr Voordewind's and Mr Ten Broeke's plea. These are documents that are relevant to the investigation and the Minister just said in response to Mr Voordewind: it is also a bit about whether you consider this relevant or not. This seems to suggest that the Minister would not consider this particular document, this memorandum, relevant to the investigation. I'd like to hear a confirmation or a denial.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u58	The relevance of documents for an investigation depends on the OVV. It's not up to us. That is precisely the independence of the OVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u59	Yes, but then I have to say that relevant information is indeed not being pro-actively delivered to the OVV, as Mr Ten Broeke said, and that the OVV should read thoughts in a manner of speaking in order to find out which documents, which are all present at the Ministry, and then request them. I would nevertheless ask the Cabinet to forward any relevant information to the OVV in any event.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u60	Again, I have no problem with that. It works so that the O.V.V. is asking and we're running. It's their question. They have a great deal of expertise in this and a great deal of experience, including in the case of air crashes. Anything they ask for will be made available as proactively as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u61	This plane crash is different because other information was needed here. That was something the OVV had noticed, because in the autumn it asked for the cooperation of the secret services. A lot of things the OVV needs there we're going to get to its state secret or information streams that are not known. The Chamber also had great difficulty finding this memo, to find out that this memo exists. It took us six months to find out. I would like to support the questions put by Mr Voordewind, Mr Sjoerdsma and Mr Ten Broeke with a very specific question. There has been some thought, certainly within the bosom of the cabinet, about what relevant information flows and what relevant documents have been there. Is the government prepared to make that list and tell the OVV: you should look here, here and here? This is a list of documents which the cabinet itself considers relevant. Of course, there may be something else that you are missing, which you yourself know may be important, because this is what we need to do to improve aviation safety. We'll get to that later with Mrs. Mansveld. Is the government prepared to make such a list and to share it with the researchers of OVV, OM, WODC and the University of Twente, who are doing relevant research on this, so that they can say: we would like to have those pieces? Then the investigation will go a little faster and a little deeper.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u62	Mr Omtzigt will now sit in the chair of the OVV and the WODC. We will, of course, respond positively to any request from them, including in this sense. That's what we're here for. Furthermore, I would really like to ask that these questions be passed on to the Minister for Security and Justice, which includes the OVV. I just mentioned how it went with this particular memo.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u63	I then passed the question on to the Minister for Security and Justice and I assume he will answer the question in his term. It's a very specific question. Whether this memo will eventually be found important by the OVV, is at the OVV. I understand that, but this prima facie crucial memo should have been put on the investigators' desk in the first month in the eyes of the CDA group, requesting that you look at it; you may need to ask that or that service again and then we can make meters with the research. The question for the government is whether it is prepared to make that list now, within a week, and to share that list with the three relevant investigation bodies. So that is not the House of Representatives, but it is the authorities that have to do the investigation, so that the investigation can take place thoroughly and properly, so that the bottom stone can emerge.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u64	I understand that this question is addressed to the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u65	I believe that the Foreign Minister is extremely formal when he says that the Research Council should ask and that the Ministry will then see if it can turn. A government that feels intrinsically responsible for the proper handling of this issue can also say to the Research Council: you have asked questions, but we still have a few files with documents on this subject, come and see. That's how you could handle it. Then it is still up to the Research Council to finally ask if he can have certain papers, but then the Minister would have been much more proactive and much better in my view.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u66	That's how we dealt with it. I'm repeating myself. There is no point with the OVV in this area. We are pleased with the cooperation. The council asks the questions and we are as proactive as possible. You can be sure that we too want the investigation to take place as well as possible. There can be no doubt about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u67	Has the OVV come to look at all the files and leaflets related to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u68	I'm not going into the research methods of the OVV. That question falls within the competence of the Minister of Justice. It's not right for me to go into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u69	I'd like to wait and see which of the rulers will answer my question. This is a classic case of "you don't know what you don't know." You can't ask for things you can't know they exist. I understand the Foreign Minister's explanation of how it works. I also understand that the OVV doesn't blame the cabinet, because that's how it works. However, the question is whether it is right that it should work in this way. You can't ask for things you don't know. This is a classic example of a case where you can't ask for something you don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u70	I think Mr Van Ojik is right about this. It must therefore be done as proactively as possible, and so do we. Publicity may play a role in this. Of course, that's not normally the case. We deliver that directly. However, nothing is being withheld that we are going to deliver at the time of publicity. That suggestion gets a little woken up. That's not the point. On the contrary, the government has again indicated that everything goes to the OVV. There can be no doubt about that. We're just gonna keep doing that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u71	I cannot speak for my colleagues, but I did not wish in any way to suggest that the cabinet deliberately withholds things. I have only established that, and I understand that the Minister is right in saying that this way of working sometimes leads to the fact that, by definition, we cannot ask for things we do not know about or in this case the OVV does not know about. There may be reason to review the agreement between the OVV and the cabinet, but the Minister of Security and Justice must say something about this. It's not about anyone's intention to withhold anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u72	I agree with Mr Van Ojik. The Minister for Security and Justice will respond to this point in more detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u73	The Research Council cannot know what this minister has in his desk drawer. I don't understand his reasoning at all. Make clear to those people what relevant information is there and then let them choose for themselves. They can't know what they don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u74	I think I'm repeating myself. Of course, people can't know what they can't know. That is why there is also wide exchange of data. We are acting as transparently as possible, and we will continue to do so. We are also acting as proactively as possible. That's all I can answer. To be honest, I have nothing more to add to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u75	My conclusion is: as proactive as it has been in the media.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u76	Mr Ten Broeke, you have already been in this round. Do you have another burning question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u77	I am looking for a solution, because I think we are very close together. I can't imagine the government won't make that selection. If it turns out that something has been overlooked, that leads to new questions. Maybe it is good to satisfy both sides and still do a double check together with the OVV. Take a look at what's going on, what the council has and what might still be delivered. Two always know more than one. Then we must take for granted that we have laid down very clearly in the law that it is up to the OVV to do so itself. This is such a special matter and the Chamber is so broad, even unanimous, in this, that I think that the government could do just fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u78	Thank you for this suggestion. The Minister of V and J will discuss this in greater detail. Of course, there is no misunderstanding about that, the intention is to sit together and ensure that everyone has all the information. That goes in a way that's very effective. There is also good cooperation on this issue with the OVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u79	Mr De Roon, many questions have been referred to the Minister for Security and Justice on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u80	I assume that this subject has now been completed for this Minister. If you'll allow me, I just wanted to get back to the subject he was discussing before.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u81	Okay. Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u82	This subject was the desirability of keeping this kind of report confidential in diplomatic matters. I can go a long way with what the Minister said. I can understand that. He did not, however, answer my question as to why, in this particular case, in which the Court made it quite clear that it would like to have access to the report, he did not ask the parties concerned if they could agree to it. The parties concerned are only the Ukrainian authorities and the United States ambassador. Those are the only two who see in that report.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u83	The simple reasons for this are: I have also tried to indicate that it would be a precedent first. Secondly, the normal traffic between the Chamber and the Government is that I give it the meaning of what was said in it, and that is what we have done. The Chamber got the information from the memo of July 14th. I will come back to that in a moment, by the way. That is the way the government should work in relation to parliament. I have already said that Minister Van der Steur will come back to the point of the OVV. Of course, it is important that we are always in close contact with the OVV about the best way of working together, as I say to Mr Ten Broeke.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u84	Mr De Roon, the Minister has said that he will be coming back to your point in a moment. Perhaps you'd like to wait for that. Or do you want to finish it right now?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u85	I did not actually get the impression that the Minister wanted to come back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u86	Sure, 'cause there were a lot of questions I was asked about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u87	If that's the case, I'll wait and see.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u88	The Minister welcomed Mr Ten Broeke's suggestion. I still have a question about that. Does the Minister guarantee that there are no more things that the OVV does not know about and which the OVV cannot ask for, just to put it in Mr Van Ojik's words? So isn't there going to be a repetition of this OVV issue, but clarity that the OVV has everything at its disposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u89	First of all, I would not like to talk about a 'OVV issue'. It is up to the OVV to determine if he has the impression that the government would not cooperate well with him. I don't have that impression at all. Secondly, if there are points of discussion, I believe that we are here to get the bottom line together. If necessary, we will talk to the OVV again to find out if there are any points left. I am sure that the Minister for Security and Justice will then provide the Chamber with further information on this matter. There is therefore no further problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u90	The Minister does not consider it an issue, but the fact is that this document and correspondence with the embassy were shared before 17 July only six months after the start of the OVV's investigation into the escape routes. That's a relevant document, I'd say. The minister says there's no problem as far as he's concerned. So there are no more documents that we can say, in view of the research question of the OVV, that they are important to have?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u91	Of course, I can't answer that question. Again, the O.V.V. is asking questions. That is also the way he wishes to work, so that selection does not take place by the ministries. It is no problem at all at any time that the OVV wishes to sit down again to make sure we have everything. It is certainly not the case that that document would suddenly no longer be relevant and could not also be an integral part of the independent research conducted by the OVV. I come to a number of points relating to the briefing on 14 July. I have just tried to explain to the Chamber why it is important that such briefings remain confidential. Fortunately, a majority of the Chamber also supports me in that. We must ensure that, in the future too, we do receive important information of this kind. The Court also asked questions about the content of the answers to the questions. The position of the cabinet on the meaning and content of the report itself of 14 July is well known to the Chamber. The report reflected Ukraine's situation in eastern Ukraine. Ukraine's information was intended to increase sanctions against Russia and pressure on Russia. The scope of the briefing was information about political developments, with Antonov as an example. The briefing was not about the road safety of airspace. The remark in the report that the Antonov could only have been shot at with Russian equipment or by RF units, since separatists themselves do not have anti-aircraft weapons, concerns an explanation by the Ukrainian authorities, emphasising the role of the Russian Federation. The Ukrainian authorities did not know the exact extent of the collapse of the Antonov. A day later, in a press release on her website, the presidential administration also mentioned the possibility of shooting a fighter jet. In this light, the Chamber was previously informed that it was a possible presence of anti-aircraft weapons in eastern Ukraine. The Ukrainian Minister of Foreign Affairs Klimkin also stated on Saturday in an interview with EenVandaag that the Ukrainian authorities prior to July 17 "had no kind of information about such modern weaponry." In that sense, therefore, we have also mentioned exactly the scope of the answers to the Chamber, as should be the case. A number of questions have been asked about the wreckage at the RF Museum. The spokesperson of the Christian Union asked me to do so. A message has been published that debris would be displayed in Russia. I can report on this, in accordance with the answer given by Mr Ten Broeke's parliamentary question, that the Netherlands has immediately asked the Russian and Ukrainian authorities. I also spoke directly with Ukraine, Australia and Malaysia, and margin of the GCCS. Ukraine was informed through media reports, expressed its dismay and under no circumstances stated that it was involved in removing the wreckage. Furthermore, it did not have any further information on the wreckage in question. Russia has indicated that media coverage would not be correct. According to Russia, no debris has been transferred to the Jejsk and there is no plan to exhibit fragments of an aircraft. In addition, the Russian media have also learned that the veterans' organisation has reportedly returned the debris to the Donbass region. The cabinet now has no indication that an exhibition will take place. Obviously, developments will be closely monitored. That's what we do with our embassy. I did that the same afternoon, I say to Mr Voordewind. Of course, further action will be taken if necessary. If the exhibition were to continue, it would be disrespectful, grievanced and extremely inappropriate. The cabinet has publicly underlined the Dutch concerns and also in bilateral contacts with the countries concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u92	Mr Bontes has a question on the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u93	That's right, Mr. Chairman. The Minister says about the Kiev briefing's report, that the discussion did not concern civil aviation safety. That's a crooked thought, isn't it? If a fighter jet or an Antonov can be taken down, surely that also applies to civil aviation? Civil aviation is at risk, isn't it? How can this be put away so easily?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u94	I'm not saying it has nothing to do with civil aviation, but I told you what the briefing was about. We have, as the Chamber knows, forwarded this to the relevant ministries. At the same time, the Ukrainian authorities also changed the NOTAM that day. It is therefore a question of civil aviation. It was then increased, as Mr Bontes knows.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u95	Mr Ten Broeke gave a vague and incomprehensible answer to my question on this subject. That's why I'm gonna try it again with the Minister. Suppose the minister got this report on his desk, and he knows about General Breedlove's briefing. He knows about taking down twenty or nearly twenty helicopters and other planes. Why has the Minister not taken action on this information?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u96	I have just said that action has indeed been taken. There has also been a spread. Secondly, there have been a number of exchanges with this Chamber that a NOTAM was also used on that day in relation to civil aviation to increase flight altitude. I don't have any new information on that. Even the minister of the country we are talking about assumed that this was not information on the basis of which one could know that it would have the terrible results we saw afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u97	Mr. Van Ojik? No? Minister Koenders, continue your response.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u98	This brings me to the end of the answer to the questions put to the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u99	Mr. Chairman. In the disaster with the MH17, not only Willem Witteveen, member of the First Chamber, died, but also my former colleague John Allen with his entire family. In the condolence register at the Ministry of Security and Justice, I wrote that as a Member of Parliament, I would do everything I could to bring those responsible to justice for this disaster. As Minister of Security and Justice, I can repeat that. I will do everything I can to bring those responsible for this disaster to justice. That is what I say, knowing that this will be an extremely complicated and difficult process, that it will never be fast enough and that it will never be able to meet the impatience that rightly lives with the next of kin. However, that does not affect the intention and the full commitment that I too will have. I know that I am supported by my colleagues in the cabinet. That does not mean that this is a commitment to results, because the disaster over Lockerbie, for example, has already shown how complicated that can be. This will undoubtedly be the case in this case. This week I had a conversation with the board of the Stichting Vliegramp MH17. In that conversation, I repeated this remark. My thoughts go out to all those next of kin who have to miss their loved ones as a result of this disaster. I have been present twice at the meetings in Eindhoven, where the remains of the victims were received, once in my capacity as MP and the second in my capacity as minister. I've talked to a lot of next of kin. That has confirmed to me that the detection, prosecution and trial of those responsible for this disaster is very important for the next of kin. At the same time, there is a great deal of understanding for the complicated and difficult road that this will be. In addition, there is, of course, a great deal of impatience among the next of kin: the sooner, the better. That is also the starting point that I will maintain as a minister. The second point I would like to address in this general section is the events of last night around Professor Maat's presentation. Professor Maat is an external partner of the National Forensic Investigation Team that is part of the National Police. As an anthropologist, Mr Maat has been associated with the large-scale identification investigation into the victims of the MH17 disaster and has also brought his expertise with great success in, for example, the post-tsunami investigations and the flight disaster in Tripoli. Agreements have been reached with external experts on the sharing of information with third parties. It is considered possible to share information with colleagues from a professional perspective on subject-matter issues, but to refrain from matters outside one's own expertise. This has also been emphasised at the time of the investigation into the disaster with the MH17. During his lecture for a study association from Maastricht, Mr Maat made statements about the research into the disaster with the MH17, which is speculative, incorrect and partly outside his field of expertise. It is right that Mr Maat apologized for this and indicated that he did not realize that the lecture could also be attended by other students than the intended medical and forensic sciences students. He also indicated that he wrongly made statements which were outside his field of expertise or which were incorrect. He regrets that he has unnecessarily hurt and grieved his next of kin. Once again, he is sorry because he has also indicated that he has been fully committed to the families in recent months in order to obtain the identifications that are so important to them. The LTFO has informed me that it is very regrettable that relatives have been hurt by these statements. The police will carefully examine how this could have happened. This morning, the LTFO, in consultation with my Ministry, also undertook to investigate this request from the relatives of which photos have been shown. The next of kin will be informed about this. The photos shown are part of the criminal investigation. The D.A. has informed me that it considers any communication about this to be undesirable before the investigation is completed. The LTFO also has an apology letter to the next of kin in preparation. It will speak with the Flycamp MH17 Foundation next week. I myself gave a qualification yesterday of Mr Maat's speech. As a result, I can also inform you that cooperation with Mr Maat will be terminated. In future, the next of kin will have to be asked for permission if you want to use photos, even when it comes to presentations to experts, decided or not. Mr Ten Broeke asked whether the next of kin had been informed. The answer to this is: yes, prior to the broadcast of RTL, the relatives have been informed through the usual channels and action has also been taken by the family detectives. They contacted the next of kin to prepare them for the shock that would undoubtedly come.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u100	I just need to think about what the minister is saying here. He sums it up pretty dry, but it's about body parts of the deceased that have been shown. Must be shocking for the next of kin. The Minister states that it is logical that experts should be able to exchange information. It was for students. I have heard that an additional call has even been made on the Internet to bring anyone who was interested. So it wasn't a private meeting. I wonder how it ever got this far that body parts have been shown so openly. Why hasn't this been considered before? Such a presentation could have been avoided.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u101	I fear that Mr Voordewind has not fully understood it or that he has not listened carefully. No, let me rephrase, I didn't say it clearly. It is permissible, albeit under other conditions, for an expert to share information in private as part of an investigation with his fellow experts. At the same time, what I said about the D.A.'s office is true. The D.A. also finds it undesirable to share photos that are part of a criminal investigation. This meeting had nothing to do with that. It wasn't a private meeting. It was a meeting for students. I said what I said. It doesn't fit in with the arrangement that was there. It should never have happened. That is also why Mr Maat has today been put off the agenda and why it has now been established that cooperation will be terminated.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u102	This meeting has now come out. Is it known whether other meetings have been held before this meeting? Have you been asked about this? Suppose this is the case, has a message been sent to the organization and the presenter that this absolutely cannot be done? Now that the Minister says that safeguards have been built in, can we assume that this will not happen in the future in this way? It can only be held at closed meetings and only for the exchange of information with fellow experts.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u103	And I'll add: photos are only shown after permission from the next of kin. I understand there have been other meetings. I don't know the nature of that. That's why the LTFO is doing research on that. As soon as I have information on this matter, of course, I will inform the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u104	The minister says that the photos used are part of a criminal investigation and that from that point of view it was undesirable to use these photos. I very much agree with that, quite apart from the fact that it would have been quite confrontational for next of kin. Is this presentation, including photos, approved by the leadership of the identification team, by the police, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u105	I can't answer that. I don't know, and I'm not gonna speculate about it either. It is also typically one of the questions the LTFO is currently investigating.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u106	I ask this, of course, because the Minister has already drawn conclusions with regard to Professor Maat. He's being deactivated. Given what happened, it's only right. At the same time, it seems that Professor Maat did this with permission. If this turns out to be the case, I hope that the Minister will inform the Chamber exactly who has given his consent to these presentations and for which precise permission has been given, both within the leadership of the identification team, but also in terms of police powers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u107	That's no problem at all. Those are questions I've been asking myself in the last few hours. Mr Sjoerdsma said that this must have been very shocking for the next of kin. I was able to check on that today. I can inform the Chamber that, given the responses that have been received on the website available to relatives, I can and must stress that this presentation and its public appearance have been experienced as extremely shocking by the next of kin. That is also why this cannot be without consequences, regardless of whether there would have been approval for anything. This still does not change the fact that the expert in question also speculated, made communications outside his field of expertise and made incorrect communications. That is, of course, always his own responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u108	However, I should like to leave it in the middle of what emerges from the Minister's further inquiries as to who else might have been wrong in this story. But wouldn't the ongoing research like this MH17 study just be the best thing that no one on the research team provides anyone with information about it, even in a private session with colleagues? After all, those colleagues have no obligation of confidentiality at the time. You never know how people handle that information. These can all be decent and sincere people, but it can go wrong with the best of intentions. You have to avoid that, don't you? Surely there is no need to talk from the research team about what is being encountered, certainly not while the investigation is still ongoing?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u109	In general, I certainly agree with Mr De Roon: that seems to me to be the right course of action. At the same time, I also realize that you may have that need if you want to maintain your quality or if you want to discuss issues with colleagues because you run into problems that you cannot solve yourself. In general, I agree with Mr De Roon. I do not know whether this applies in all specific cases, but in general I think the line proposed by Mr De Roon is sensible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u110	It is a good thing to find out exactly how this happened and who has given permission for it, but apparently there was an arrangement. My question to the Minister is: was he aware that there was an arrangement that material could be used? The next of kin have now made it quite clear that they want a ban as long as the identification process is ongoing. I hear the Minister say it differently by saying that we are going to ask permission at a time. Why don't we just honor this request from the next of kin by prohibiting at least until the end of the identification process?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u111	I will take that first point into account in the letter I will send on this after I have been able to speak to the LTFO on this subject myself and I know exactly what is happening. On the second point, it may be a de facto ban if the next of kin consider it undesirable that material be used. I think this is the most important thing. There may be a request to share information with the use of photos because this is in the interest of the identification of victims. I assume, then, that next of kin have the complete freedom to choose for themselves to cooperate. I think it is the purest method that next of kin can weigh up the importance of the disclosure of the material.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u112	It would also be good to get back to that. But can we assume that there is a ban until such agreements have been made in consultation with the next of kin?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u113	Of course. Without permission, nothing will be made public. I come to speak about the recovery mission, the mission that is currently underway with the aim of bringing back as many remains and personal effects as possible and, if possible, wreckage. I shall come back to that later in my speech when I answer the individual questions. In general, I can report the following. At the moment there is a mission, consisting of a team of 30 people, in which people from Malaysia and Australia participate, on location in Eastern Ukraine. With the next of kin, I hope that this mission will allow the last remains to come home and, above all, that the last two Dutch victims can still be identified, as Mr Ten Broeke and other spokesmen have pointed out. The mission staff know how important this is for next of kin and do everything in their power to meet it. Two other priorities are also considered. That is, first and foremost, the investigation into the facts and, of course, the criminal investigation. The broad desire to draw conclusions quickly is very understandable, as I have already said, but the cabinet has and keeps three main priorities: repatriation, independent investigation into the conduct and the detection and punishment of perpetrators, i.e. justice. Then, in general terms, I come to the care of the survivors. During the week of 2 March, the Research Council for Security gave survivors the opportunity to look at wreckage of the aircraft. A total of 533 survivors of 151 victims have made use of this possibility, including a number of survivors of victims from other countries. Through the Information and Reference Centre, Ukraine and two weekly newsletters, relatives are still kept informed of relevant developments, as in the unfortunate case that became public yesterday. The support of victims by case managers of Victim Support The Netherlands remains available throughout 2015. My ministry also has regular contact with Victim Help The Netherlands. The National Police's family detectives are still in contact with the next of kin about the criminal investigation, as far as next of kin want, of course. I myself spoke to relatives who were no longer in need of it, but I also spoke to relatives who were very much in need of it. The next of kin, united in the Foundation Vliegramp MH17, will organise a commemoration in Nieuwegein on 17 July, one year after the disaster. The government, Victim Help The Netherlands and the Foundation Arq Impact support the Stichting Victimamp MH17 in the organisation of the commemoration. The cost of the memorial will be borne by the Empire. The MH17 Foundation determines the design of this memorial. Then I will answer the questions asked by the Chamber. I do that in a couple of cubes. I'll start with the specific questions about the mission and the search area. Then I'll talk about the next of kin and the foundation of next of kin. Then I will talk about identification, about prosecution, about routes of flight, about matters relating to the Security Research Council and finally about the Ministerial Committee on Crisis Control, about which questions have been asked. I'll start with the subject of mission and search area. First of all, let me say that I am extremely proud of the enormous commitment of the team that keeps returning there, and of all the people involved and who are doing very professional work under very difficult conditions. I was able to speak to some of them when I was in Eindhoven. I have noticed that the work they are doing is very intense, but that they are holding on because it is meaningful work and they are well aware of its importance. I would like to thank Members of Parliament for the appreciation that has also been expressed during this debate for the important work they are doing. Mr Ten Broeke and Mr Servaes asked when the mission was completed. It is estimated that 14 working days will be needed to recover virtually all remaining human remains. There is a team of experts from the National Police and Defense Department, as I said. That will as soon as that can excavate part of the ground and also search it manually on the spot. At the moment, the weather conditions are not so favourable. The many rain, wet snow and hard wind have made the excavation difficult, but fortunately for the next few days a weather improvement is expected. Recently trucks with wreckage have left for the Netherlands. These will soon be expected in Gilze-Rijen. Also, two trucks from Ukraine with recovered wreckage will soon leave for the Netherlands. The human remains found will be transferred to the Netherlands as soon as possible. It is expected that this will take place in the first half of May. The cabinet sincerely hopes that with the human remains found in recent weeks and with the impressive results of the ongoing repatriation mission, it will be possible to identify the last two Dutch victims. This repatriation mission is still expected to be completed by the end of April. We have been asked whether all quadrants of the search area have been searched, including the northeast. The repatriation mission is still in progress. We won't be able to tell you until after we've searched it. Moreover, the ambition is clear: the repatriation of everything that remains, of course, under the condition that the security situation allows it. Both the repatriation mission and the fact-finding mission last month have been in the north-east region. In the meantime, it may be assumed that a number of areas there are still very dangerous because of the ammunition left behind. There too, of course, the safety of the people who work there is taken care of. Questions have been asked about the next of kin, the Stichting Vliegramp MH17 and the identification. Mr Omtzigt of the CDA asked about the organisations of the next of kin: who represent these associations and foundations? As we know, on 11 November 2014, a number of next of kin founded the Stichting Vliegramp MH17. I met one of the founders personally last week. The foundation focuses on the protection of the interests of the survivors in a broad field. The board of the foundation consists of relatives of the victims of the air crash. This foundation acts as an interlocutor for the government. In the Stichting Vliegschamp MH17 the families of over 181 victims have united. Of these 181 victims there are 150 Dutch; 31 are foreign. Specific topics are discussed and discussed in the Foundation's various working groups. For example, there is a working group dealing with the commemoration on 17 July and a working group thinking about a monument to be set up. In addition, there are initiatives that focus on sub-topics, for example on the memorial itself. There are also initiatives by third parties, with or without the involvement of next of kin. I have already answered the questions about Professor Maat's presentation. Mr Van Bommel of the SP Group asked a question on identification. In the last stand-of-business letter we informed the Chamber about the identification process. It has been indicated that the identification of the remains contained in the fact-finding mission, which will still be recovered from the repatriation mission currently under way, will in principle last for many months. Identifying is a complex and time-consuming process. Now that the current repatriation mission in Ukraine appears to be as successful as we hoped, the LTFO and the NFI are working on a plan of action to further intensify the identification process in the area of capacity. That plan is at such an advanced stage that I can now report that it is expected that all remains will be identified before 1 July of this year, insofar as they can be sampled. This really makes every effort to complete the identification process. The LTFO will keep the next of kin informed about this. Returning all identified human remains that are still present in Hilversum is a process that takes place in consultation with the next of kin and is carried out carefully. At the moment, many relatives are still waiting to receive the identified remains. They have the hope that more identified remains of the victims will follow. This situation also means that the work in Hilversum will continue for the time being. The members of the Chamber have in the past asked about the death certificates. I think it's okay if I just give you an update. Most of the death certificates of foreign victims have also been issued. The embassies of the countries concerned have been regularly informed of this. Mr Omtzig asked about the support of the survivors on legal issues. It goes without saying that, where necessary, we will enable Victim Support Netherlands and the Victim Disaster MH17 Foundation to support the next of kin. To the extent that legal proceedings are to be initiated, one can always use the system of legal aid we know in the Netherlands, if one is eligible for legal aid. I come to the subject of persecution. Mr Omtzigt, Mr Sjoerdsma, Mr Ten Broeke and Mr Servaes asked questions about persecution. I'll start with a general answer. Taking down flight MH17 has hit several countries. This makes both investigation and prosecution an international matter. Mr Koenders has just said a few words about this. In the cabinet's view, there must be a trial, because the law must take its course in any case. The cabinet's efforts are therefore aimed at bringing the perpetrators before the criminal court. That is also what I set out as a starting point when Nieuwsuur asked me about it. To this end, the Cabinet maintains contacts with other governments in order to arrive at a joint strategy for prosecution. It is too early to go public about the various prosecution strategies being developed at the moment. That could harm the criminal investigation, as my predecessor has already informed the Chamber. In addition, care and caution in this process are crucial in achieving the necessary international coalition and international agreement. I can report that several prosecution options are being investigated. I admit that the Chamber has also asked that if it can, the Chamber will be informed of this. If necessary, this will be confidential.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u114	Thank you for the commitment. I understand the confidentiality. Will the Minister strive to do so before the end of October? Then the OVV comes with its report and of course there is a rapid acceleration. If it is clear what the cause is, the blame comes immediately. They are very close to each other in this case. If you know what weapon it was and where it happened, you're already getting close to pointing out suspects. Will the government endeavour to inform us of progress in any way before October?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u115	I must first point out to Mr Omtzigt that the idea of a particular weapon is one of the prosecution scenarios developed by the Public Prosecutor's Office. We have informed the Chamber about this. It is my intention to inform the Chamber of whether or not the prosecution strategies are confidential before the reports are published. Mr Omtzigt and Mr Van Bommel have asked questions about requests for legal aid. The Joint Investigation Team, i.e. the joint investigation team, has applied for legal aid to more than ten countries, including the United States of America, Mr Omtzigt here asked for both Russia and Russia. The team is in close contact with both countries. In this context, work visits have been made to the United States and Russia. I cannot go into the question of what information has been provided. The investigation phase is still ongoing. The same applies to contacts with other countries, such as Russia and the United States. These contacts benefit from confidentiality. It doesn't help if I bring out in the meantime which states have delivered something. It is also incorrect, as it was suggested, that the investigation team would have numbered with the filing of legal aid applications. International cooperation was deployed day after the disaster. Legal aid applications were made in the first few days after that. As an investigation progresses, the question of which information is further needed becomes more obvious. This will then be done by means of further requests for legal aid. Mr Van Bommel has asked whether evidence is still being sought at and around the disaster site. Actually, I've already answered that question. Yes, if there is evidence on the ground that is relevant to the truth finding, this will of course be involved in the evidence collection. I don't remember who asked for the missing part of the cockpit. I see it was Mr Omtzigt. I can report that the missing part of the cockpit has now been found and is going or is going to the Netherlands. Mr Van Ojik asked why the Joint Investigation Team's call for witnesses was made so late. Mr Ten Broeke asked whether the study was directed towards one scenario, namely the Buk scenario. The research team looks at multiple scenarios, including the scenario of the Buk rocket. The fact that the witness call related to the Buk scenario, as one of the possible scenarios, does not mean that this is the only research direction. Then I'll be there when the call is made. By the time the call was made, the investigation team had already gathered a lot of information. The call of witnesses was one of the possibilities of finding new witnesses who had not yet made themselves known by any other route. So I cannot support Mr Van Ojik's suggestion that it was late. The Russian Federation has been asked for guarantees of its willingness to extradite any suspects. That question was raised in the debate with Mr Koenders, among others by Mr Omtzigt, I believe with the support of Mr Sjoerdsma. As the Foreign Minister has already pointed out, the UN Security Council resolution commits all countries to prosecuting the perpetrators of the MH17 disaster. The same applies to Russia. As long as the Public Prosecutor has not yet identified a suspect, the Cabinet cannot speculate on the nationality of any suspects, nor on opportunities and obstacles to extradition to the Netherlands. Anyone who has ever looked into extradition issues will, however, realise that the right to this issue, especially in an international context, is not always simple. I'll be on the flight routes. In particular, Mr Omtzigt, Mr De Roon and Mr Bontes have asked questions about this. I repeat what is happening: airlines are themselves responsible for determining their routes. For this purpose, they shall carry out safety analyses using internationally available information from countries on the airspace they cross. This is done, for example, in the form of so-called NOTAMs. The Chamber knows that there are no other NOTAMs issued on East Ukraine than the one that says you can't fly below 9,750 meters. There were no signs before 17 July that airspace was unsafe for civil aviation. Ukraine had declared its own closed airspace safe for civil aviation. In the international context, no warnings had been given by aviation authorities on the safety of airspace in Eastern Ukraine. Formerly, a warning had been given about air safety over Crimea. This was done at the meeting of EUROCONTROL on 22 May 2014. There was then an unsafe situation because both Ukraine and Russia claimed air traffic control. The fact that some airlines did not fly over Eastern Ukraine had nothing to do with the insecurity of the airspace for civil aviation in Eastern Ukraine, but above all with the situation in Crimea. There have been no international meetings on aviation safety over Eastern Ukraine. The diplomatic briefing by Ukraine on 14 July was not about airspace safety, as has been repeatedly reported to the Chamber, but about Russian interference in the conflict in eastern Ukraine. Despite the destruction of military aircraft, no signals have been received that it would be unsafe for civil aviation over Eastern Ukraine. The Security Research Council is investigating how to determine these routes. The OVV will therefore answer a large number of the questions put by the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u116	The minister says there were no signs that the airspace above Eastern Ukraine was unsafe for civil aviation. This raises the question as to why the Ukrainian authorities have closed the airspace to a height of 9.7 kilometres. I assume that the Minister is also doing so because it was also dangerous for civil aircraft below 9.7 kilometres. In any case, Ukraine did assume a risk to civil aviation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u117	Yes, but when I say that there were no signs that the airspace above Eastern Ukraine would be unsafe for civil aviation, I mean open airspace.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u118	With that specification I come back to the question about the presence of heavy anti-aircraft guns. What's that 9.7 kilometers based on? What weapon, which apparently had been used before and was a danger, only reaches 9.7 kilometres? I think the answer to that is difficult to give. There is a ground-air defense weapon that reaches about 7 kilometres. The other systems are Buk systems and all reach at least 11 kilometers altitude. What exactly did Ukraine base that 9.7 kilometers on and why did other countries accept that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u119	Those questions are justified, but I cannot answer them. I'm not going to speculate about it either. I find speculation unwise in any case, but certainly in this loaded matter. I assume that we can get that answer through the investigation of the OVV. If that is not the case, we will have to find out who can give that answer. In my opinion, the only people who can give that answer are the aviation authorities of Ukraine itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u120	This is incomprehensible. These are very specific questions that are crucial. Then there's a minister here who says, "I don't know." You can't do that!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u121	I am asked about the precise considerations, what exactly happened when an Antonov aircraft was shot down. As far as I know, it's unclear how that happened. I didn't see any clear coverage of that. That is why I cannot answer that question either. What Mr Bontes thinks of this is up to Mr Bontes. I refuse to speculate here about something I don't know and have no information about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u122	So the government has no sense of protecting its own citizens. I think this is ridiculous. If you can bring down an Antonov aircraft at 6,700 meters altitude, you can certainly bring down an aircraft at an altitude just above 10 kilometers. Why did the government assume that there was no danger to civil aviation, when such an Antonov was shot down at that level and the government knows that an aircraft could also be taken down at a higher altitude? Why is that handled so easily? I can't understand that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u123	I cannot share Mr Bontes' conclusion that this is easy to deal with. I don't know how the Antonov plane was taken down. I cannot therefore support the conclusion drawn by Mr Bontes, which means that an aircraft could have been taken down above the airspace closed by the Ukrainian authorities in the same way as the Antonov aircraft. I just can't answer that. Again, I think this case is too important to speculate on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u124	Let's not speculate. However, I have heard the Minister say here that the government had no information to suggest that it could be dangerous above the altitude of 9.7 kilometres set by Ukraine. The minister says the government had no clue. I'll fight that. The first clue was the possible presence of the heavy anti-aircraft guns. The second option has just been presented by the Foreign Minister. He said: Ukraine said in that report that there was that heavy anti-aircraft gun, but the next day we heard that it might also be a fighter jet. We also know from a fighter jet that it can shoot down an aircraft over 9.7 kilometers. Also a civilian traffic plane. So I really do not understand how this Minister can say: we had no indication that it could be dangerous beyond that 9.7 kilometres.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u125	I understand Mr De Roon's question. I have too little knowledge of fighter jets to conclude whether they are capable of shooting down aircraft at any altitude. As Minister for Security and Justice, I am not in a position to do so. That is why I stand by what the cabinet's line has always been: that, given the situation, there was no threat to civil aviation. I would point out once again that it is also clear that the Antonov aircraft was a military aircraft, not a civilian aircraft.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u126	If the Minister says he doesn't really know whether or not that can be dangerous beyond 9.7 kilometres, then he should of course not hide behind the Ukrainian authorities. I am not addressing this minister personally; I am, of course, addressing the government. The government had information on this matter, and I would like to say that it is possible that it could be dangerous for civil aviation beyond that 9.7 kilometres.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u127	I will come back to Mr Van Bommel's question on what is now a concrete threat against civil aviation. I'll answer that question in a minute. I would point out to Mr De Roon that the system as we have it basically means that airspace is the responsibility of the local or national aviation authority. That is exactly the case in the Netherlands. This was also written again in previous letters to the Chamber. If there are signals indicating that civil aviation is to be feared in a given airspace, if there are signals of a concrete threat, then that information will then be transmitted to the airlines via the channels of, among other things, the NCTV. That was also the case at the time with regard to airspace over Sinai. That's what we indicated in the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u128	The Minister has already announced that he will address the question of when there is a concrete threat to civil aviation. As a result of all the answers given by the Minister, I should like to make the following point. As far as the level is concerned, as far as ground weapons systems are concerned, as far as air weapons systems are concerned, regardless of whether there was a concrete threat to civil aviation, a distinction is made between civil aviation and military aviation quite wrongly. At the time when we are unable to answer some of the questions relating to the risks, perhaps that is the system error that Mr Ten Broeke mentioned earlier, I think we should assume that civil aviation is at risk there too, even if concrete risks have not been identified before. Does the Minister share the view that the state of affairs does point in this direction?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u129	No one here can deny that the MH17 crashed. We don't know how that happened yet. This will be demonstrated by the investigation of the Security Research Council. We also don't know who might have done it. Mr Van Bommel asks me to draw conclusions in anticipation of the investigation, but I am not going to do so. I can tell Mr Van Bommel that it has happened. That means that something has happened anyway that we all did not know would happen. The question then arises how you deal with the possible risk. This is typically a question to be addressed in the investigation of the Security Research Council. Mr Van Bommel asked me when there was a concrete threat against civil aviation. This situation arises when there is a concrete indication that there are parties in a particular area with the potential and intention to attack civil aircraft. At that time, the NCTV will also take action towards the airlines, as has already been indicated in response to previous questions. In the days preceding July 17th, there was no evidence of the potential or intention to attack civilian aircraft.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u130	That's what's at the heart of the matter. Following me is the crux of the matter that, if it can be established that there is the potential or the intention to take down military aircraft, the conclusion must actually be that it is not safe for civil aviation in that area either. That is the only conclusion that can be drawn from this issue. That must be the lesson for the future. I'm asking the Minister to respond to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u131	I think it's a good thing I don't answer that. This is one of the things the Security Research Council is investigating. In general, it is not good and not wise for me to answer that question without the depth of knowledge that the Research Council has. But I certainly believe that this point will be addressed in the investigation of the Security Research Council.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u132	This is to a large extent a discussion that we had on 5 February. I remember that discussion very well. I said at the time that it was not so much a question of whether there were signals, because those signals were there. We can talk about it for a long time and we can use a lot of words for it, but of course there were signs that there was an unsafe airspace above Eastern Ukraine. The question is, how do you weigh those signals? Maybe the next question is even more important. Who eventually weighs those signals? The current situation in which two parties have a responsibility here, namely the airline and the country whose airspace we are talking about, in this case Ukraine, may not be satisfactory. There should perhaps be more parties or other parties responsible. To be honest, I find the discussion on whether there were any signals not so interesting. We had that discussion at the time. There were signals. The question is whether we have responded adequately to this. The answer to that is no. The Minister is right to say that otherwise this terrible disaster would not have happened. So something must change in the division of responsibility. Doesn't that seem obvious to me?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u133	Without the investigation of the Research Council for Security, I think that conclusion is premature, even if I understand Mr Van Ojik's reasoning on this point. The answer to Mr Van Ojik's question will be given by the State Secretary for Infrastructure and the Environment. Let me add one thing, also in reply to the question put by Mr Van Bommel. We are now looking very much at the responsibility of the Netherlands, but the relevant question in this case is of course whether there have been any other countries that have warned, given the information that everyone had. The information about the shooting of an Antonov was publicly known, even though it was not entirely clear how that had happened. Have other countries warned their airlines? The answer to this question, which has already been given, is that, as far as we know, no government has warned of a possible threat to civil aviation over Eastern Ukraine before 17 July, other than, of course, within the closed airspace closed by the Ukrainians themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u134	The fact that other countries have not taken action is precisely my point. There's a gap in the division of responsibility. I really do not know what is premature about that conclusion, with the knowledge that we now have of what has happened. We now know that there are two parties with a certain responsibility, namely the airline and the country of airspace, and we know what happened. Then there is nothing premature about saying: there is obviously something wrong with the distribution of responsibility? I would, of course, like to wait for the answer from the Secretary of State, but the Minister of V and J is taking a considerable advance on that answer by saying that the conclusion that there is something missing in the division of responsibility is premature. I dispute that, and I find his argument that other countries have not acted, is precisely proof of the fact that I am right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u135	I would like to admit to Mr Van Oijik that this is also the way to drive. However, it is not up to me, given the information I have, to draw that conclusion now. I would like to leave that to my colleague from Infrastructure and the Environment. Mr Omtzigt has asked about the flights that have taken place over Ukraine. That question has also been put in writing a number of times. I hope that I am not blamed for perhaps repeating myself somewhat. The fact that some airlines have not flown over the area of eastern Ukraine is due to the fact that an airline itself is responsible for the safe conduct of a flight and makes its own risk weighting. This is done on the basis of official notices. As stated in the letter, the information positions of airlines may differ, as well as the considerations they make in their decision-making. Previously, the Cabinet indicated that aircraft did not otherwise fly through Eastern Ukrainian airspace after the briefing of 14 July 2014. The cabinet still supports that. There has been a discussion on what United Airlines has done in that context, also in response to a message from the NOS. It has been investigated and, on the basis of information from telephone contact between United Airlines and my department, no evidence has been found that United Airlines behaved differently after July 14th. United Airlines indicated that it had no scheduled flights between 13 and 17 July. For this reason, they did not change flights during the interim period. Air France, Virgin, Atlantic and Lufthansa have not avoided the area above eastern Ukraine. British Airways, Korean Air and Quantas have already decided to avoid the whole of Ukraine in response to reports from the FAA. United Airlines indicated not to have scheduled flights for the period between 13 and 17 July.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u136	Fortunately, we are taking this debate a step further, namely that we know which airlines have avoided airspace. It is very good that the government has contacted United Airlines independently. Has there also been contact with Korean Air, Delta Airlines, Air France and British Airways to know what their considerations have been? Or has the OVV done so, so that we will be informed about this in the OVV report? It is crucial for us to know why they have made a different assessment and on the basis of what information that has been done.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u137	I don't know if there's been any contact, I don't know. I wasn't in this position at that time, so I have no knowledge of that. I'm not going to speculate about it either. I mentioned earlier that a number of airlines have decided to continue a different flight route after reporting on Crimea, which means that they no longer flew over Ukraine. I cannot answer Mr Omtzigt's question as to what the Research Council for Security is investigating, because that is up to the Research Council itself. One thing is certain: there will be an investigation of routes from the Research Council and I would not be surprised if this subject were taken up.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u138	Could I ask the Minister to ask the Research Council whether this will be part of the report and whether this will be checked again from the Netherlands by a second body in this company? If this does not happen, will he formally ask those airlines why they no longer flew there? They did that on different dates. Delta has been doing it since March and many small companies from Norway and Sweden did it since the end of April, when the ICAO State Letter was announced stating that it was better not to do so. Then the rest didn't fly above Crimea either and immediately took Eastern Ukraine. Would he care to ensure that contact is made and to mention in one of the forthcoming reports what was the reason why they did not fly there?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u139	I find it a little difficult to approach the Security Research Council on this. On the other hand, I will promise in the next block that I will approach the Research Council anyway, but for another reason and on another subject. I propose that I address the subject and see if they will answer it. I can also imagine that they don't want to do that. In that case, I shall consider whether it is possible to respond to Mr Omtzigt's request. My hesitation lies in the fact that quite a lot of airlines flew over that route from all over the world. I fear that if I come back with a number of airlines, Mr Omtzig will say that I should have called the other 80 as well. I am a little hesitant about that, but I intend to ensure that I inform the Chamber within my responsibility. I will contact the Security Research Council and will contact Mr Omtzigt to see if it is practically feasible to comply with the rest of his request.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u140	Thank you for the commitment. This does not need to be done with Mr Omtzigt, but preferably in the next two months by means of a letter of inquiry in which he indicates what information can be provided on this matter. If it's in the O.V.V. investigation, then I understand that it can only be done when the O.V.V.V. research comes out. One of my questions was, by the way, when a final report can be expected from the OVV-research on the routes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u141	I understand from the OVV that this report will be published at the same time as the other reports and is expected to be in October. I have already given the answer to Mr Van Bommel's question. Then I'll join the Security Research Council. Mr Van Ojik asked why there was a delay in the investigation of the OVV. Why is it autumn instead of summer? For this purpose, the OVV is independent and independent and decides for itself when the board does what. The Council indicated that the three reports are expected in October of this year. Furthermore, I cannot give a substantive answer to that question. There has been a discussion between my colleague Mr Koenders and a number of members of the Chamber, including Mr Van Bommel and Mr Sjoerdsma on the provision of information to the OVV. What about the information the OVV doesn't ask for? I would just like to mention Articles 37 to 40, which regulate the competence of the Research Council. The essence is that the Research Council is advancing information. This means that the research council can make a claim as broad as the board itself wants. I have had some experience with this when I was a member of this Chamber and I know that you can make a claim and how broad you can make it. It is the competence, but also the responsibility of the Research Council. The cabinet has been fully involved in the investigations of the Research Council and the Public Prosecutor's Office from the outset. There is full access to all documents that both the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Research Council need for the investigations. The Research Council is fully competent to formulate the research question itself. On that basis, he himself is seeking the documents he needs. It is clear that the government attaches great importance to the quality and thoroughness of the investigation. That is the starting point. There is no need to withhold documents from the Research Council. I am convinced that this has not happened. Mr Omtzigt asked whether it was possible to draw up a list of all kinds of documents. I think it would be good if I spoke to the Research Council to see if he himself needs more or other documents. That's the commitment I just announced. At a later date, we can see if he needs another legal system. Moreover, as far as I know, the Research Council has not previously requested any amendment to that legal system. So I'll ask the Research Council. I think that's easier than making lists of all kinds now. I would not know exactly what should be included in those lists either. In any case, the starting point is that the Research Council must have everything it needs to carry out the research thoroughly and expertly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u142	In the last round, when Mr Koenders was talking about the same subject here, it was so crowded at the microphone that I barely got in the way. This minister is responsible for this part. How it's formally arranged, we know. That is indeed in the articles mentioned by the Minister. His hand-out to sit down with the OVV once again, is of course fine. It's really good to do that. However, the question arises as to how this has happened in practice. Despite the fact that the request for information comes from one side, you can imagine that at the start of such an investigation you will sit down with all the parties involved, namely the OVV, the government and the various departments, and just discuss with each other what the OVV needs. Is that the kind of conversation that took place? And what was the sequel to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u143	I can answer that question. Moreover, Mr Omtzigt has already asked a similar question. There was a first discussion between my department and the Research Council on 31 July 2014 regarding the investigation into the establishment of the passenger list. That's one of the investigations the Research Council is doing. In the following months there has been all kinds of mail contact with the Research Council. The purpose and subject matter of this discussion was to provide the requested information. That was in September. All kinds of documents were then submitted to the Research Council. Interviews are therefore conducted by the Research Council and the Research Council formulates the research questions on this basis. That's how I understood it. Mr Servaes will understand that I was not there myself, but that is how I was informed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u144	I understand that, of course. The issue that I think Mr Van Ojik well described is how the Research Council will find out about those things that he cannot know about. Someone once called it the "unknown unknowns" in the past. I'm assuming the Research Council has come up against such an issue before. Didn't the parties have that kind of conversation? I am not just talking about this minister's ministry, but about the government and the research council in broad terms. For example, did they not ask: what are the relevant actors, departments and embassies for the government? What else do we have? Shouldn't we at least involve all the correspondence between these different actors in this investigation? I would think that's a very logical start. Did that come up at the time? And if not, wouldn't it have made sense if that had been discussed at the time?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u145	I can't answer those questions. If Mr Servaes appreciates that I would like to give some further information on the way in which the Research Council dealt precisely with the provision of information in those months following the initiation of the investigation, I will send it to the Chamber by letter. I do not have that information, even in the absence of science of my own.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u146	The Research Council can indeed claim material under Articles 37 to 40 of the Law. In addition, Article 26 (2) of the same Act states that "the Minister shall provide the Council with the information it generally needs for its task'. So there is also a government obligation in that law to actively share things. That's even legally laid down. I ask this very sharply here, because we all have a very uncomfortable feeling here about the fact that this memo only came to the researchers after six months. I appreciate that a hand-out is being made, but I would really like that hand-out on the basis of lists. That hand-out should not only go to the OVV, but also to the Public Prosecutor's Office and to the researchers of the WODC and of the University of Twente, who are going to say something about the decision-making afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u147	I don't see the point of lists. And I'm not going to ask the D.A. to make any information about his investigation public or not to make it public. I'm not going to compile lists of those myself. I do not want to in any way hinder the criminal investigation, let alone hinder the capacity of the criminal investigation in one way or another, by delivering cases now. I honestly do not see the point. What I do think is important is the question of principle. I have not prepared myself for a discussion about the Security Research Council and the way in which the Council has been legally installed. I cannot see how Article 26 relates to Articles 37 to 40. I assume that Article 26 sets out the starting point that no document should be withheld in any way from the government, when the Research Council initiates an investigation, and that the Research Council should, and so it is, be quite logical, if your research is to formulate a research assignment itself and make progress on the basis of it. Then you can refer back to the main rule: you must provide everything you have and what is relevant to us. This therefore indicates the content of the investigation procedure that the Research Council is carrying out. In the English and American system there is something similar, where you can provide all the data that you might find far and wide relevant, with the result that you require the Research Council to go through it to find out for yourself what is relevant. So I think this is just a practical approach, but that is speculation on my part. I do not know when the next review of the Research Council will be on, but at least I will take this point into account in the discussion I intend to have, and have already promised, with the President of the OVV. Then we can see whether the research council itself has the same feelings as here in the Chamber about getting or not all the relevant information.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u148	This question can't be unexpected. I am therefore surprised that this action has not been taken before this debate. However, my question was not only about the Research Council and the Public Prosecutor, but also about the WODC investigation, which now contains a number of state secrets at once. We'll get back to that in a minute. My question is very specific: will the Minister, for once, actively send information to these researchers, documents which the government believes might be relevant to the investigation, so that we do not stand here with documents that are obviously important, but which appear only later? I'll keep that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u149	The nice thing is that I am convinced that all the documents relevant to the investigation have been provided in accordance with the request made by the Research Council. I'm not going to provide information on what documents have been provided to the Research Council, let alone the investigation carried out by the Public Prosecutor's Office, because this simply cannot be done. We share the point of departure, Mr Omtzigt and I, that it is important for the Research Council to have all the information it needs in order to be able to carry out its research competently and thoroughly. The only relevant question is: does the Research Council itself have the impression that it has received all the information? Mr Omtzigt also knows that a document, in which reference is made to another document, often allows you to determine whether you already have that other document, yes or no. Suppose, in answer to this question, the Research Council would inform me: we have here a whole list of documents that we have not received. That would surprise me very much, but I would inform the Chamber. However, I assume that this is not the case and I have not received any signal so far that this would be the case, but you know that I have not been a minister for a very long time. I'll check, because I understand the importance of the question. I do not think, however, that it would be wise to respond to Mr Omtzigt's request to draw up lists of all kinds, while at the Research Council they may simply find that there is no need for them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u150	Now it seems as if the Research Council has that impression, but the question is whether the government has that impression. It was a memo that was written by six ministries and had to be known to dozens of people. Many people and ministers knew that the Research Council could certainly be interested in this. That memo didn't end up there. There could be more of those types of information flows that have not gone towards the OVV. The O.V.V. won't know about that. The same can happen with the WODC investigation. I'm putting the D.A.'s investigation out of the question. Does the Minister intend to actively inform these two institutions on a number of issues? Would he like to check whether there is any information within the government and within the summit of the committees that have contributed to this, such as the MCCb, that those concerned feel that it should necessarily be sent to the Research Council? Will the Minister take this actively into a conversation with both the OVV and the WODC and the University of Twente? I do not want any further unnecessary delay in the provision of documents.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u151	The starting point is that the government fully cooperates with the investigations which it itself considers to be of great importance that they be carried out. Then it's classified, confidential and non-secret documents. This applies to the Security Research Council, to the evaluation of the WODC and to the Public Prosecutor's Office. There's no discussion about it. There is no need not to provide information necessary for those investigations. I'm gonna run ahead on my last block. I can report that all ICCb's and MCCb's documents have also been provided to the WODC for evaluation purposes, precisely because it is very important that the WODC should be able to do its job properly. We do not need an evaluation that is not based on the right documents. I already promised for the O.V.V. I am willing to verify at the WODC and at the University of Twente whether there is the impression that they do not have pieces that they would like to have. I'm just gonna do that. I have no problem with that. That's the easiest route. In the letter I have already promised, I will respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u152	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u153	Mr Omtzigt asked about the ICAO Annex 13 regime. On this basis, the investigation report should be completed as soon as possible after an accident and, if possible, within 12 months. If the investigation report cannot be finalised within 12 months, the country of investigation shall publish an annual report on the state of the investigation. This publication was made in the form of the notice from the OVV that it expects to publish the report this year. My final topic is the Ministerial Committee on Crisis Management. Two essential aspects are at stake here. Are all the documents necessary for the evaluation of the WODC provided? So the answer to that question is yes. Does that also apply to the state secret documents? The answer to that is also yes. Mr Omtzigt asked why these documents were not also given to the Chamber. The MCCb's reports shall include, in addition to information affecting the security of the State and international relations, advice and considerations on how to reach decisions. These are personal policy ideas for internal reflection. The full provision of these personal policy concepts does not cope well with the functioning of the MCCb on MH17. A careful consideration of all relevant aspects requires a private exchange of views. In this sense, the MCCb does not deviate from the Council of Ministers and the other sub-committees and ministerial committees. For those reports, too, it is not customary for them to be given to Parliament. In this context, I note that it is not exceptional that the MCCb's reports are classified as state secret. This applies to all reports from ministerial committees, the Council of Ministers itself. Of course, it is important for Parliament to understand the relevant facts and arguments underlying the final decision. In the various letters sent to the Chamber, including the answer to written questions from the Chamber, those facts and arguments were given to the Chamber. This brings me to the end of the answer to the questions put to me by the Court. The cabinet's commitment is complete to repatriate all remains to the Netherlands as far as possible and retrieve the wreckage back to the Netherlands with the repatriation mission currently underway. The aim is to be able to complete the investigations in the area of competence and to enter into a process in the end. We will inform the Chamber as soon as possible, confidentially and in any case before October, of the strategies for the detection, prosecution and trial of those responsible for this terrible disaster.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u154	Thank you. Do you have another question for the Minister of Justice, Mr Omtzigt?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u155	Yeah, on the last point. The precise question was when these documents were declared state secret and what classification they had. In conjunction with that, I asked in my first term whether the research and information protocols are going to be made available. The minister just said in a subtlety that these matters were sent to the WODC and then to the University of Twente. It's about state secrets, so that's very closely listening. I can imagine that these questions cannot be answered immediately, so that can also be done in writing. I'd like to hear if those investigation and information protocols are such that we can verify how those state secrets are handled. Can the Minister now state what classification they had and when they are qualified as such?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u156	I will reply to all these questions in writing because of lack of science, otherwise I will speculate, and that does not seem to me appropriate at this stage.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u157	Before we go any further, I shall suspend the sitting very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u158	Mr. Chairman. The terrible disaster with flight MH17 continues to concern me and my ministry daily, at national level, at European level and at international level. Given my role and responsibility as Secretary of State for Aviation Policy, I focus mainly on the international follow-up approach to the disaster. However, I will come back to Mr Sjoerdsma and Mr Ten Broeke's question on the national section and also on the national coordination needed for this international input. There are a number of developments to report. The Chamber has also asked a number of questions about this. These developments are still in full swing, so that I can report on the current state of affairs. This concerns in particular the work of the ICAO Working Group, the ICAO Conflict Zone Task Force, and what has emerged from it. The European Commission and EASA have also taken initiatives. I think it is important that these initiatives are compatible. I shall now turn to the question of sovereignty. Who's gonna make the decision? So we are now at European level, at national level and at international level. That's happening fast. 191 countries have been able to launch a pilot website in a very short space of time and are now working on it. But also in the European Commission and in all the Transport Councils where I have been, there has been talk of the MH17 and the actions that can be taken at European level. I think it is important that this is compatible and I think it is important that the Dutch contribution to these international initiatives should be made in good consultation with the aviation sector. I mean not only airlines in this context, but also air traffic controllers and Schiphol Airport, for example. We need to get together and see how we can deliver input. We also need to look at how we see this coherence. Finally, in line with Mr Sjoerdsma's motion, Mr Voordewind and Mr Omtzigt, a dialogue was launched with the Dutch aviation sector. I'll be right back. This is done under the chairmanship of me and the Ministry of Security and Justice. This brings together questions about safety and security. I shall deal with these issues in turn. I'll start with ICAO. ICAO's website has been operational since 2 April. At present, the United Kingdom is the first country to publish information on the website, in this case on Egypt, Iraq and Libya. Mr Omtzigt has already referred to this. This opens up the advice the United Kingdom provides to its own airlines to all. It is therefore a question of making the opinions public, not of the underlying information. It is expected that other countries will follow in order to advise their airlines on airspace safety. I have said before that these are countries with strong intelligence services. The United States has indicated that they support the website. They are also expected to post information on the website. The website has just started and the countries are also starting up. What does happen and what does not, of course, also has to do with the systems in the countries concerned. As has already been reported to the Chamber, intelligence services inform the airlines about concrete threat information via or in consultation with NCTV. The NCTV will explore, in consultation with these services, how the Netherlands can contribute to the ICAO website. The test shall be evaluated at the end of the year. Member States are therefore invited to share their experience with the website. My ministry will make these experiences known to ICAO on behalf of the Netherlands in November or December. An ICAO working group will make any recommendations based on experience. The next ICAO Council, in the first half of 2016, will therefore comment on this. The Chamber knows I'll inform her about the information that's coming. I come to the working group set up by ICAO to review the provisions of the Chicago Convention. We've talked to the Chamber about that before. The word'sovereignty' is also mentioned. I said last time that talking about sovereignty is quite complicated. This is enshrined in the Chicago Convention. That's an old treaty. Sovereignty of countries is important. It would be something like a country saying to the Netherlands to stop the sovereignty of the Netherlands. It is a complex issue and I do not expect any changes to sovereignty to be discussed. With 191 countries, that will not be an easy discussion. However, the Working Group will consider how better to implement the international provisions of the Convention. Then I come to exactly the question that Mr Van Ojik asked Minister Van der Steur in the event of an interruption, namely how it works now. We have intelligence intelligence on a possible threat and we have civil aviation. After the terrible incident with the MH17, those two aspects came together. The Netherlands has been invited to the working group and I would like to address this subject: how do we deal with it, how do we know that information is reliable and what do we expect? The questions of the Chamber I can take with me to see exactly where we stand after 80 years of treaty: how do we deal with the concept of sovereignty when you relate that to this incident? The working party meets three days in July and, following the results, I will inform the Chamber of how the discussion is started, what questions are in the working group and what the input of the Netherlands has been in it. Mr Omtzigt asked why international measures have already been taken in anticipation of international research. He used the word "analysis," but the other spokesmen also used that term at different times. I'm trying to pull that apart and tell you what analyses are going on. The international measures proposed by the ICAO Task Force aim to reduce future risks of flying over conflict zones. This issue has never been looked at extensively by the aviation sector and the need was felt by all parties in the aviation sector to deal with it as a matter of urgency. Of course, the flight MH17 disaster has prompted us to put this issue on the agenda as a matter of urgency, but the task force's work is independent of the investigation into the disaster. Because the question of how to reduce the risk of flying over conflict zones cannot only be answered by the airlines, I come back to what comes together, i.e. aviation information and safety and security. A broad task force has therefore been set up which will take into account security and intelligence aspects, as ICAO has previously indicated. Experts in these different areas have discussed how to deal with the risks of flying over a conflict area, closing airspace, issuing warnings and sharing information. On the basis of this discussion, the Task Force has proposed a work programme, where possible measures are taken to reduce the risks of flying over conflict zones. It is important that this happens internationally. It is not just about the Netherlands or Dutch airlines. As I said before, you'll be flying over the Netherlands in a few minutes. We have three or four airlines, but it concerns all airlines, all countries and all areas of conflict in the world. The proposals in the work programme shall be drawn up and evaluated individually. What does not appear to be effective in the preparation or evaluation will not be used and what is effective will be used. In principle, the maximum input comes on the table. It is not for nothing that the website is a trial; at the end of the year it is evaluated. Mr Sjoerdsma also spoke of "analysis" and I am right in drawing up the motion by Mr Sjoerdsma, Mr Voordewind and Mr Omtzigt, who has been widely supported by the Chamber and in which the Cabinet is called upon to consult with the Dutch aviation sector for improved information collection and risk analysis. This consultation has begun. Yesterday we had all the parties together in a very constructive atmosphere. I am talking about the KLM, Arkefly, Corendon, the pilot union, the intelligence and security services AIVD and STIVD, as well as the ministries of security and justice, infrastructure and the environment. In view of the issues to be discussed, Infrastructure and the Environment have a shared Presidency with Security and Justice. On the agenda was on the one hand the progress of international developments, after all, we must find something about this and on the other hand the Dutch system of information exchange and risk analysis. First of all, several initiatives were discussed, both within Europe and internationally at ICAO. At the end of this year we come up with a joint Dutch contribution about the website. We also have an initiative from EASA. This is about the pre-announcements of the safety information bulletins. We also agreed that we should continue to talk about this. About the Dutch system of information exchange and risk analysis, it has been agreed that parties will explore options and alternatives in parallel with the OVV research for other, additional ways of information exchange and risk analysis. These options and alternatives are then discussed. If the OVV report, which comes in the second half of this year, contains recommendations in this area, it can be involved. I would like to await the examination of the OVV and I would like to have the results of this working group in order to be able to carry out the Dutch analysis of airspace. I don't think it's smart to do that sooner. After all, the OVV will also make recommendations. The next consultation with the working group is scheduled for the summer recess.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u159	The Secretary of State said earlier, "I'm not in the loop." We talked earlier about the memo that went to six ministries, including the Ministry of Finance, but not to the Ministry of I and M. I've been in the 7,000 pages that have been wobbled by RTL, checking how many e-mails have been sent to I and M. There were about six of them. Not in the barrel is one thing, but not on top is a second. I really wonder if the Secretary of State really shows sufficient urgency on this dossier. My motion calls for improved information sharing and improved risk analysis. The government has a role to play in this. The Secretary of State says: parties are going to think about improvement, but I am not, I am waiting for the OVV. I do not understand why the Secretary of State does not have the urgency, given North Korea, Libya, Yemen and all the other conflict areas that are currently being flown over. How does the Secretary of State explain that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u160	Apparently, I have not been clear; I apologize for that. I'll repeat what I said. The group of I and M, V and J, air traffic control, KLM, Corendon and Arkefly will bring in all their own skills and expertise. As a group, we will explore what options and alternatives we see to improve matters. But the results of this club will only come when we have been able to include the recommendations and conclusions of the OVV. Then we are at the ball in Europe. The website has been launched at ICAO. I am very pleased that initiatives have been launched at these three levels and are becoming concrete. We can bring those three levels together. After all, we can find anything at national level, but aviation is an international activity. We want every passenger in the Netherlands to be able to board any aircraft and to be able to fly in airspace in such a way that it is as safe as possible for civil aviation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u161	I do not understand the answer to the parliamentary questions. In it, the Secretary of State writes: I am not doing an analysis of how we can improve the national aviation safety system. Is she saying that she does, contrary to her written reply, or does she say: no, I do not?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u162	I said that this analysis comes after we get together with the group that is coming together and the OVV have put everything together. Then Europe is working, and ICAO has two working groups. In the end, we in the Netherlands will have to achieve part of what we want, European or international. I think it is important that these routes run in parallel at national, European and international level.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u163	Of course, it also needs to be improved internationally. The Secretary of State says: other countries have strong intelligence services that provide general advice on risks; in the Netherlands this is not done and it is only about specific threats. Apparently, these are even very specific threats. Isn't that already a point that the Secretary of State thinks we should get to work on, partly looking at her own role, that she wasn't in the loop in this file? How does she feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u164	What Mr Sjoerdsma says is true. There are countries with strong intelligence services doing research, which have a lot of information and have actively indicated their willingness to share that information. That information shall be shared on that website, inter alia, to ensure that the provision of information is internationally equal. In the Netherlands we also find some of that. I have just said that we will examine with that group what input we want to deliver to ICAO. There must be a three-level link, but the most important thing is that a number of things will have to be achieved and anchored at international level. This includes sovereignty, where the question of how we deal with each other's assessments plays a role. This is without prejudice to my view that what we are discussing with the aviation industry group and the outcome of the OVV study should be our input. We need to look closely at how we switch at other levels, what our analysis is and what we find. But that analysis comes after the OVV report.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u165	We'll probably have to wait another six months for the O.V.V. report. We must not waste precious time. Look at the Kiev briefing and the report on it. There has been evidence of insufficient cooperation between ministries. Has the Secretary of State taken action to establish a link between ministries, so that, for example, Defence can advise, so that its own ministry can advise, so that the Ministry of the Interior can advise on the basis of intelligence? Is that gonna come together? If that doesn't work properly, you really don't have to do anything international.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u166	In order to inform each other, it is important to ensure that information flows run smoothly. The most important thing is that, for example, ICAO information gets to the airlines as soon as possible. You are right to ask how the intelligence services' information gets there. That's why we have the NCTV. There's a director of civil aviation there. That's where we invested that part. The information relevant to civil aviation within the NCTV shall be transmitted directly to the air carriers through the NCTV. For me, it is important how the information flows run: are they short, reliable and fast, and can they be acted on? My ministry is a ministry of industry dealing with aviation safety. I'm going over the roads in the air and over the ILT, the inspection that checks that everyone meets every level. We also have the security piece, which is about information from, for example, security services or the Ministry of V and J. It's going down that road. In that group with all those parties in the Netherlands we will of course also look at how we are going to do this. That is why the Ministry of Security and Justice is also a member of that group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u167	Can the Secretary of State guarantee that the breeding I have indicated in the attack on the MH17 will no longer occur because there is now a coherent policy between ministries?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u168	For me, the question is whether there is breeding. I think it is important that we wait and see what opinion the OVV has on this matter. The information lines are very transparent, with the utmost importance that an airline makes a flight plan that can be safely operated from A to B. Other parties also play a role in this. One example is EUROCONTROL, which has knowledge and facts about 41 countries: Europe and its surroundings. EUROCONTROL shall review the flight plan. If the flight plan does not meet the requirements, for example because it concerns an area whose airspace is closed, then the flight plan will be rejected and the airline will have to submit a new plan. Those are trajectories that I don't think a ministry should be in between. We need to look at where what information goes from where. We are now looking at this at national, European and international level, with the same objective.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u169	The OVV submitted a number of questions through the CTIVD. The first question he raises about the secret services is: what is the formal structure between the AIVD and STIVD respectively and the parties relevant to aviation safety, such as, and so on. Consultations are now taking place at ICAO, at European and national level. Information flows would be transparent. There's a lot of tension on those statements. It is quite unclear to me who has a formal role and responsibility in warning about aviation safety, because everything seems to be in a great flux. Is the Secretary of State prepared to explain this here or to put it in a letter where these formal powers are now and where they should be? If anything happens now, the secret services must warn, the airlines must look at that website which is only partially filled, they must rely on EUROCONTROL, they must conduct independent investigations and watch the international media to see if a Antonov is shot down above Eastern Ukraine. You will understand that the list is very long, but I do not see where the formal responsibility lies.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u170	I recognize Mr Omtzigt's question, which we discussed ten weeks ago. I sent him a letter on how the responsibilities lie; who does what. I answered that question at the time, because I think it is important that there is no ambiguity about that. He also received an annex. Of course, it's interesting how it's gonna be. We will first have to look at the national level. I just said we're looking at that, also to carry out the Sjoerdsma motion. We are looking at how to set up a structure at European level. What are we doing and what should we improve? And we do it on an international level. We're gonna have to talk to each other about what that's gonna be like. I think it is very good that we are doing this very widely on those three levels.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u171	Mr Sjoerdsma, eh, Mr Servaes. She's doing it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u172	Ten more years off, so thank you. I think that the approach to these three levels, global, European and national, is sensible. It is good that steps are being taken. I do not think it is realistic to expect that we will have solved this very fundamental structural problem within a few months. I will come back to the issue at global level. The Minister already mentioned the famous Chicago Treaty of 1944, which is based on the national sovereignty of countries to determine safety in their airspace. Last time, the Secretary of State also gave a profit warning; that it's tricky. I hope that this is not the conclusion when we see that analysis in the autumn: this is difficult, so we can't do anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u173	I cannot yet say anything about the outcome, because we are 191 countries, but I can make sure that our input in those three days, the first time, is to be critical of how sovereignty relates to how we then deal with it. Should provisions be filled in differently? I think this is a more constructive way than to ask directly whether we should be sovereign or whether one should go over the other. You can contact me on my input. I will tell you that with your support and your incentives on this issue, I will also be working very actively there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u174	It is always good if incentives lead to an active commitment. I think it is good to note that such a treaty requires the consent of all. If that doesn't work, you can think in a smaller context. If a number of countries find it difficult to fly above a particular conflict zone, they could set up the system in a different way. In my opinion, you do not necessarily need the consent of all countries to go beyond that sovereignty. Will the Secretary of State also consider such options and inform us about them in advance?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u175	I think it is important that our input is firm and clear. This is not a subject to talk about with flour in the mouth or for a long time with a large group. Oh, it's falling apart now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u176	I suggest that you continue your speech not behind the speaker's seat, but just behind one of the microphones; all this in terms of safety.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u177	There's not so much that can fall now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u178	Still, I think that's safer, and for everyone's sake. The Secretary of State will now be behind one of the microphones. The Minister of Security and Justice needs to move over for a while. We tried, but it's the only way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u179	I give the floor again to the tough Secretary of State of I and M, who continues. Good luck!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u180	...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u181	I'm suspending the meeting again. We're gonna get the techs to check this out. This isn't gonna work.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u182	I see that those who wanted to ask questions have waited very patiently at the interrupting microphones. Thank you for your patience. I think the Secretary of State was in the middle of a sentence. Now let's just start with the questions again. There were already members with questions about the Secretary of State's story. Mr Ten Broeke has the floor first.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u183	Mr. Chairman. I am pleased to see that the cabinet has remained in office; at least we can see that. I believe that it will indeed take too long to engage in a fundamental discussion of sovereignty and to wait for it to happen. I do not think that is the question of the Chamber either. I have already said in my own speech that even without changing rules you can see that there is a sovereignty problem when a country expresses doubts about its own airspace. That's got to lead to something. Can I go through a small case with the Secretary of State? There are several countries where Buk missiles are mounted, with exactly the same system as in Eastern Ukraine. This applies, for example, to Venezuela. The President of Venezuela said last year that he believes that he can use self-defense even above the Antillean islands, for example Aruba, ten kilometres away. I'm not saying it's an unstable country, but it's not very stable either. Venezuela has shot down a plane three times in the last year. One of these aircraft landed in the Dutch, or at least in the royal territorial waters. For the sovereign, in this case the Netherlands, the question arises as to whether this is a safe situation. There are a lot of Dutch people landing there. These are concrete situations, which may not have to give rise to great tension or misery, but they are now emerging from what took place last year. Against that background, I think we should have that serious analysis. For the sake of clarity, I do not mean the national analysis referred to by Mr Sjoerdsma even before the research results have been processed. I agree with the Secretary of State on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u184	Each case is different, of course. The fact that we are meeting in that working group to talk about sovereignty has a terrible occasion, namely the disaster with the MH17. He accelerated all of this. I think different countries can make different cases. In principle, it is a question of what information we have and how it is assessed. Airlines plan their flights based on information. The question then is whether the information is complete and whether the good information flows are brought together. Would it be better to make a decision not to fly? Would it be better to assess whether the information given by a country on the closure of air transport is justified or unjustified? I'm gonna need more than that. We need the intelligence services of very strong countries to bring in the information. In working groups, we now bring these kinds of parties together. I do so at national level and we do so at European level. Security and Justice are connected at national level. The question is how we deal with conflict areas. What information is needed for civil aviation? We'll put that together. All the questions you ask are justified, but I cannot anticipate the results. Sovereignty is, of course, a complex issue. It is clear that we need to look very closely at what needs to change. It's not "or," it's "what." For example, we have already thought that the information on the website should be improved. How do we get a comprehensive, equal information dissemination for 191 countries, so that one country does not have more information than the other and there is inequality in it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u185	In the present division of responsibility, everyone, if I understand correctly, looks to the sovereign. In this case, that's Ukraine. If you travel across the country, you will soon receive advice, including from national governments, that you cannot travel safely. Then why should there be a safe flight? You do not need to start a theological discourse on sovereignty in order to establish that there is a fundamental need to change the division of responsibility. You yourself mention the role of intelligence services, especially those of large countries. The intel I've just gathered, it's just from open sources. That was about Aruba and we happen to be dealing with it ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u186	I cannot help but notice that all these questions are currently on the table in the right places. It is very important to look at how we set things up as soon as possible. Both internationally and at European level and nationally, you simply need time to do so. I can find something, you can find something, we can find something here, but the steps will then be taken at European and international level. I am content with the speed at which ICAO works and the pace at which the European Commission picks it up. So we're on top of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u187	I'm really surprised at this answer. Mr Ten Broeke has been very clear about the urgency that this issue deserves. I don't understand why the Secretary of State is hiding behind the O.V.V.'s investigation. When it comes to cooperation at European and global level, the Secretary of State not only says that it has its analysis in full, but also that it has directions for solutions, such as a website and better cooperation at European level. However, when it comes to national security, the State Secretary would like to await the investigation of the OVV. The O.V.V. is about both of them. Then why wait for the research of the OVV for one part and not for the other?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u188	I think it is important that the OVV investigates the disaster with the MH17 and also examines how the flight route has been established. I believe that we should share the recommendations and conclusions of the research carried out by the OVV with the sector and all the parties on the table. I guess this doesn't get out of hand in time. In six months or seven to eight months we will probably receive the report from the OVV. I do not know exactly when we will receive this, because the OVV is autonomous in issuing its report. I think that we also need this time to look with the sector at what we might or might not want otherwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u189	Mr Servaes has a follow-up question. Excuse me, I mean Mr. Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u190	Yes, I'm Mr. Servaes with glasses. This is really weird. The OVV investigates the disaster with the MH17 and the escape routes, looking at both the way in which the system operates nationally and the way in which it operates worldwide. For the global system, the Secretary of State does not wait for the OVV's investigation and she simply goes to work. For the national part, she would like to wait for the investigation. Other countries have their intelligence services actively providing advice on areas of risk. We just heard how Great Britain does that. In addition, Mr Ten Broeke gave the example of Venezuela. This should at least be a solution for the State Secretary: that intelligence services actively provide advice to the Dutch civil aviation sector. I don't understand why the Secretary of State isn't doing that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u191	I'm repeating myself. I do not share Mr Sjoerdsma's view.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u192	The Secretary of State says that the question is not whether something should change, but what should change, in what direction and how. Something must therefore be changed; that is not what the discussion is about. We would like to know what the Dutch are doing in all these talks, whether national, European or international, in ICAO or anywhere else. What plans, proposals and ideas is the Minister going to consult on all these? If we can understand this, we can clarify many possible abuses in a letter to the Chamber. Then we can talk about the use of the cabinet in all these discussions and see if it is in line with what the Chamber would like to propose.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u193	The working group will meet for the first time in July and will formulate a research question. I'll inform the Chamber about that. I have just said about the website that we are considering how we can bring together all the information from all the parties involved in the Netherlands. I will make a contribution on behalf of the Netherlands in November, December, when ICAO collects the data. Then I can send that input to the Chamber. I said that I would involve the Chamber's contributions in the discussion. Those are the moments when we communicate. For the structure in Europe I deliver my input to the Transport Council. That meeting shall be public; the Chamber shall receive the report thereof. It is true that there are several committees passing by for the information. I think it is important, in implementation of the Sjoerdsma motion, that we should also give the answer to this question to the Chamber, but with the results of the OVV. The moments when the Chamber is informed, there are and there will be.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u194	I am still trying to get a more concrete commitment from the Secretary of State. I am not so much concerned with what will be the research question when that committee meets in July. I am not so much concerned with the question of how we proceed with that website. We have found that there is clearly something wrong with the distribution of responsibility. Mr Ten Broeke just said it literally. We also discussed this extensively on 5 February. Otherwise we would not have had to have this whole debate. I wish! So something's wrong. So something must change in this division of responsibility. What is the Dutch government's commitment to this? Whether in the Netherlands or in Europe or in the international aviation organisation, it is a question of which the Secretary of State should be able to say: I would like to respond. Then you won't say, "Let's wait and see what comes out of the O.V.V.'s investigation." Perhaps that is not at all the intention of the Secretary of State. I feel like we're talking past each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u195	Everyone has a responsibility. I gave a very clear breakdown of those responsibilities last time. An airline is on the flight route. That's how it is now. Those airlines are at the table, in the group that was formed following Mr Sjoerdsma's motion. They sit there from that role and that responsibility. Air traffic control is at the table from its role and responsibility. The Ministry of Security and Justice sits at the table from its role and responsibility. I'm sitting there at the table from my role and responsibility. So the question is: how do these roles and responsibilities run? We will then have to talk to each other first about the question: what do we need or what do we think we need to do differently, what are alternatives or other ways to deal with it? We have now said that we are going to do our homework and that we are going to look at the questions I have just mentioned. At the same time, I await the outcome of the research of the OVV. That's parallel. I'm not gonna sit around and wait for that to come and then work. No, we've brought all the parties together and taken the lead. Those questions are on the table from roles and responsibilities. This is about information and the question of who needs what information. How does the information provided by security services relate to the decision-making of air carriers? That's why it's an international website. For example, the major intelligence agencies such as America, France and England can share this information and respond to it. In this way, an equal information field can be ensured. I think it is important that we first look at the findings of the group set up to implement the Sjoerdsma motion in the Netherlands and that we wait and see what conclusions and recommendations the OVV comes up with.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u196	"The big intelligence agencies that are going to share information, put on a website." I'll help the Secretary of State hope so! I think we're all trying to find the initiative here. I think the Netherlands should take that initiative. Being at your service in all these consultation situations, whether it be the ICAO or Europe! Sure, that's good, too. That the Secretary of State wants to wait for the report from the OVV, because it can provide input for that solution, I get that one more time. But I would really like to urge this government and this Secretary of State to develop ideas of their own. The Netherlands also has a responsibility, not only because of what happened last year, but also because we have a large international airport and we have an interest in keeping international air routes free and safe. We must do that for our own people, but also because it is so crucial. We also have a reputation in that area, I would almost say, when it comes to sea routes. I would urge the Secretary of State to try to come up with an initiative of his own. Try putting those loose ends together for yourself!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u197	We have worked to ensure that ICAO is active in the field of information. Mr Ten Broeke says: I hope so. But the UK has already provided input for the website. Within nine months there will be a trial website on which the UK has put all its information on, among other things, Egypt. That's exactly what needs to be done. The Netherlands has put a lot of effort into this. It has been one of the initiators to do that. The European Commission is now looking at the structure. She looks at the initiative on behalf of the Netherlands. If we want this to happen in Europe, we need other countries. We can't do this as the Netherlands alone. Yesterday we had the group together in the Netherlands. The question of how we deal with this was discussed. These initiatives are ongoing. I'd like to break iron with my hands, too. I wish it could be faster, but a few things take time. I am very grateful for the fact that ICAO has developed an international website with 191 countries at this rate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u198	I believe that there is broad understanding in the Chamber of the fact that international initiatives in particular take some time, but that also raises the question of what we are doing at national level in the meantime. Those holes won't be sealed immediately. The Minister outlines a timetable here: the next consultation will take place in July and the results of the Security Research Council will follow in the autumn. I have here in the Chamber the need to be included in the debate before that time. Is it not possible, in the run-up to the next meeting, to inform the Chamber in July of the agenda of the meeting and of the way in which improvements are envisaged at national level? I think that would bring the discussion further. This would provide the Chamber with the information requested in the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u199	I just promised to share that information with the Chamber by July, after the publication of the report of the OVV. I will tell you what comes out of the group and what I will discuss with ICAO. I'll share that information with the Chamber. I want to be as clear and open about it as possible. But do you realize that it is input for a discussion that I cannot determine the outcome of? Sovereignty is then a complicated subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u200	I just want to be very clear about the moments. We know that the OVV report will be published in the autumn, but our question is: can we as a Chamber get an overview of what is being discussed there prior to the July meeting? We know it's an interim report, so no final answers are given. But if we get as full a picture as possible of what is going to be worked on, what is going to be the aspects, what is being discussed in July and what the possible decision-making points are there, it will help the Chamber enormously. Then the Chamber will be sufficiently taken into account in that process.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u201	I can give you that overview. It concerns the working group in which sovereignty is discussed, among other things. They're different subjects. I can inform the Chamber about that. I can also inform the Chamber about the results.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u202	I'll come back to the website that's been set up. So the UK has provided information about two countries, but when is that website so operational that it can be used by other countries? When will the Netherlands provide information itself? I assume the commitment is there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u203	The website started as a trial three weeks ago. The UK has put information on it. That website still needs to be filled. I expect this to happen in the coming months. What information is put on it depends on the information you have. I'm gonna take a look at my neighbor. It is not for me to determine what information from Security and Justice and intelligence services will be on that website. For me, this is certainly important for strong countries with large intelligence services that have a lot of information to put that information on. I have already said that they are putting the recommendations on it, but not the information they have, because it will be secret or at least confidential. It won't be known how they came to that conclusion, but I'm not going over it. My colleague's going over it. The intention is for all countries to make clear how they look at that website by mid-December. ICAO will formally review in the first half of 2016, when they meet in their meeting, what changes will be made and how the website, which is now on trial, will be put down definitively. So that's what we're gonna be practicing for the next six months.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u204	That practice is clear to me, but I would like a more precise answer. Is there a commitment from the Netherlands to share information, or are we waiting for the big and strong countries to provide information? In this kind of service and in secret services, it listens very closely. If you take the initiative to share information and you do not provide information yourself, then the rest of the world will be less likely to cooperate. That is why the question is whether the Netherlands will provide information.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u205	I do not share Mr Omtzigt's view. There will always be countries that do not provide information. It is very important for us that this information is accessible and that they receive the same information as countries with strong and large intelligence services. The Netherlands has a smaller intelligence service. I would like to talk to Mr Van der Steur, who is responsible for intelligence. I've just been told that the Minister of Security and Justice is responsible. For me, it is important that the website is filled by countries that have the relevant information. Other countries can respond to this, and that is exactly what we need. I would like to talk to my colleague who is responsible for that information.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u206	I am glad that we are being consulted, and I assume that we will hear the results. This concerns not only the information provided by the Minister for Security and Justice, but also, where appropriate, the Ministers for Defence and Home Affairs, who are dealing with two other services that could have relevant information.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u207	I just said something. I said that I would consult not only with ministries, but also with airlines, with air traffic control and with airports on how we look at the website and how we judge it. All those reactions that eventually go to ICAO, I will also share with you. I will show that we, practicing and watching how this goes, are actually giving the combined reactions. I'll share that with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u208	To reassure my colleague Servaes: has the Secretary of State just promised that in July she will send the Dutch commitment to the Chamber at national, European and global level?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u209	That's a little too much to ask. The working group on sovereignty and on the international provisions of the Chicago Convention will meet in July. At the very request of Mr Servaes, we raised the issue of sovereignty. The Netherlands is in the working group because Parliament has indicated that this is very important. Mr Van Ojik has just interrupted: how do you deal with that? That issue is being discussed in that working group. If the agenda is available and it is clear how the Netherlands is going, I will certainly share it with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u210	Well, that's nice, of course. Mr Servaes, myself and others in this Chamber hoped that this commitment would include national commitment. On behalf of many colleagues, I would ask you to share the national commitment with us in the foreseeable future.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u211	I have been very clear about the national commitment. Yesterday, all the parties were together on the implementation of the Sjoerdsma motion, and we will be back together in a few weeks. Everyone thinks and gives their own influence. We are looking at the right steps forward. This runs parallel to the research of the Research Council for Security which comes in the course of the year. Then comes the analysis and I have no problem sharing it with the Chamber. Mr. Chairman. I have one more question. The SP Group asked which airspace is closed. Airspaces are closed by the countries themselves. Of course, that has to do with sovereignty. We have just discussed this in detail. This information goes directly to airlines. Eurocontrol controls this. So at what time is the airspace closed, there is a fluid situation. That can be different in theory per day. If Mr Van Bommel wants to know what the state of affairs is today, then I have to ask him. That's how the system works.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u212	I had also asked for a specific situation now: Libya, Yemen. I suppose the Secretary of State will be able to answer that in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u213	The Secretary of State can't do that, because that's not what the Secretary of State is about. As I said, I can give you that information in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u214	I appreciate that, and I'll wait and see.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u215	This brought an end to the first-term response on the part of the government. I note that there is a need for a second deadline. We'll get right on that. Mr Voordewind has signed out for the second term. I call Mr Omtzigt of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u216	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the three directors for their comprehensive reply. That's gonna be around the MH17 for a while. I have great respect for the many people who are still hard at work, while we are meeting here, to do the identification, to do the investigation and to bring back people, victims. I did not say anything in the first term about the researcher who showed us some pictures, but I must say that he is being punished quite severely for a presentation for which he was given permission. I have great respect for the people who do the work. I believe that a measure is being taken very quickly, especially where others have accidentally used the wrong word in this disaster. I have to say hit. The CDA calls it an attack; not a disaster. Minister of Foreign Affairs Klimkin said in EenVandaag that there was no information available. On 10 July, he said in the Frankfurter Allgemeine that there were indications. On July 15th, he said the same thing for CNN. He was talking about surface-to-air-missiles. The fact that he doesn't remember this now directly contradicts what he knew then. This will be a very important aspect of liability. The CDA Group regrets that Russia is still not directly questioned about its cooperation. We understand that this can have great geopolitical implications, but Russia needs to be involved. We are pleased that pieces of the cockpit have been recovered. At a later date, we will return to the meeting of Eurocontrol on 22 May, but we would like to know what was discussed and decided there. It is very important to know whether East Ukraine has been involved and if so, in what way. With regard to secrecy, I await with great interest the answer to the question of why the relevant documents have been declared state secret, who has done so, what classifications they have and what the research protocols look like in the case of state secrets. I understand this isn't happening right now. I have taken note with interest of the Minister for Security and Justice's hand-out, but would like to go a step further with regard to the documents that are being made available. To that end, I shall table one motion today. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considers that the bottom stone should emerge with regard to the MH17;]] [[calls on the Government to make a full inventory of all relevant documents at its disposal, including those on the government's information position before the attack and the decisions taken by the Government after the attack;]] [[calls on the Government to share this complete inventory with the researchers of the OVV and WODC/University of Twente in the short term and to make the documents available to them,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Omtzigt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33997-39]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u217	I understand the intention of Mr Omtzigt's motion. However, I wonder whether the motion does not weaken the request that has just been made here in the Chamber, which seemed to be able to count on a commitment and a hand-out from the cabinet. It is not without reason that we have given the Research Council the opportunity to actively seek out something. Now Mr Omtzig actually returns the primacy to the government. I would not like the government to make the selection, for the simple reason that what does not belong to that selection could later give rise to further speculations. We really need the O.V.V. on that. That is why I liked it so much that the cabinet indicated that it wanted to deal with this together with the OVV. So I think Mr Omtzigt's motion weakens control rather than strengthens it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u218	After what happened with that briefing on 14 July, I think there is a good reason to ask the government to make information available spontaneously for both investigations. I have already mentioned the legal basis: Article 26 (2) of the Rijkswet on the Research Council. I also said that I appreciate the hand-out. It's not like I don't understand what the Minister's doing. Since this is an incredibly important research with incredibly large information flows, I do not expect a very long list of documents, but a number of things the government says: make sure you have these things in a row. I'm asking for the hand-out to do this this way. Mr Ten Broeke may or may not agree with that, but I believe that the government can implement this active duty of information in this way. She wants the bottom stone on top of her own. I can see that commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u219	Now we were just as busy with the whole Chamber to force the cabinet to make a further effort, and then Mr Omtzigt in his motion first comes up with a list which I think he says should be complete, and then he says it should only be relevant documents. What does he think is relevant? Or worse: what does the cabinet think is relevant? I don't want to depend on that. I really want this to stay with the Research Council. However, I would like the cabinet to be more proactive in doing so. That explains the double check. I think Mr Omtzigt's motion weakens it. That can't be his intention, and I don't think that's his intention either.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u220	If the Research Council does not know what documents it might be missing, it is indeed up to the government to indicate in a way where the OVV should look to know if it could still ask for information. Now that we find out that this memo was only provided six months after the attack, I believe there's a reason to ask this way. I understand that this is an exceptional request, but this is also an extremely exceptional and difficult matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u221	I do not have the text of the motion in front of me, but I think I have heard the words 'overview' and'relevant documents'. The question then is, of course, who decides what relevant documents are. Who would like Mr Omtzigt to apply that test?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u222	That test must be applied by the government. In recent months, the government has undoubtedly looked internally at what is important for this investigation. We have provided long questionnaires and only after these questionnaires did documents which we consider relevant reach the Committee of Inquiry. So I ask the government to say to the committee: look at that, look at that and look at that, because that was important to us. The Research Council can then, of course, request all kinds of other, additional information. There's no question about that. With me really lived the idea that the OVV should have had the relevant pieces in the first few months. That's too slow.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u223	I have also questioned specific documents myself. You ask the Cabinet to make a full inventory of all relevant documents and then it is up to the Cabinet to determine what is relevant and therefore also to determine when the overview you wish is complete. Then I would prefer to have full unhindered access from the Research Council to everything, including to documents that the cabinet says are not so relevant or it may not be relevant at all in the first instance. Does Mr Omtzig not agree with me that, when people have completely unhindered access, they will undoubtedly have more documents at their disposal than when we leave it to the Cabinet to decide first what is relevant?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u224	If the OVV asks for a document, the OVV will get that document. The cabinet has long and wide admitted that. I also fully assume that the government is doing so, let there be no misunderstanding about that. This is the question that Mr Van Ojik asked so pertinently: they don't know what they wouldn't know at the OVV. That's why we say, "Make a list of this." This is without prejudice to the fact that other cases may subsequently be requested. However, if important documents lie somewhere in a part of the government, a government that is extremely large... Due to the fact that the OVV only requested the talks between the Embassy in Kiev and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs six months after, it itself implicitly indicated that certain information flows might have to be viewed earlier. That is also the question I put here. Please indicate where those information flows are located and whether there are information flows that the OVV should be aware of.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u225	My impression was that in this debate we agreed at least two things with the Minister of Security and Justice. First of all, he would look back, together with the OVV, whether, at the beginning of the process, perhaps there was wrongly broader scope than just a number of key documents. Secondly, he was going to talk to the OVV about whether the OVV still has the idea that there might be documents that need to be put on the table. Does Mr Ommzig agree with me that it might be a little early to ask for inventory now, even before we have the answers to those questions and know the outcome of that consultation? It is always possible, at least theoretically, to conclude in those talks: no, it actually went quite well. That is, for us, an unknown in this case.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u226	It is quite possible that the government is making an inventory and that the OVV says: we knew this. That is a good outcome and that is also the desired outcome. However, I am not a priori assuming that this is the case. As you can see, this list is not a list that is public either. That could have state secrets on it, which could have all kinds of other documents on it. This is a question I'm putting to the government. Does she want to present this to the researchers of the OVV, the WODC and the University of Twente?The Chamber doesn't have to sit there at all to make sure we don't find that we made that mistake again? Let us look back to the past, to the report of the Davids Committee, but perhaps even more relevant to the report of the parliamentary committee of inquiry on the Bijlmermeer disaster. It was very clear about these kinds of information flows. I'm building an extra security here to make sure we don't repeat the mistakes of the past.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u227	No one wants that, but the question is what is the value of the agreements we have just made with the Minister? Apparently, Mr Omtzigt does not want to wait for the outcome of these agreements and that would be a pity, because then we might as well not have been able to make them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u228	It was an offer, not an appointment. I see that as a fine hand-out too. I welcome the fact that it is now being recorded and that the government is actively encouraged to point to sources. Mr Bontes said it a little more graphically when he talked about drawers. Mr Van Ojik said it a little more academically by saying that you don't know what you don't know. These are exactly the documents that I believe the government can actively point out to the researchers so that we do not have to have that discussion again later.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u229	Mr. Chairman. I thank the rulers for their reply. That response was sometimes quite comprehensive. We can only appreciate that. But am I completely satisfied now? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I'll explain that and then I'll finish with a question. The Minister of Foreign Affairs had no desire to ask those involved in the briefing in Ukraine if in this particular case the information could be shared with the parliament in the Netherlands. The Minister pointed out the precedent. Apparently, that's something very dangerous in his eyes. I don't see that danger. Legally, there is no binding precedent. Whatever it may be, the Minister obviously prefers to stick to what he sees as the mores in diplomatic traffic rather than to do his utmost to meet the information needs of a part and even a substantial part of the Chamber. He could have discussed with those other diplomatic parties whether they actually objected to the exchange of information to the Dutch Parliament. These countries would still have been able to say that they did not want to do so, whether or not by resorting to the precedent. I do not think that we have been helped by this Minister on this point. He could have done better to meet us. Then there is the word 'possible' in the oral presentation of the report by the Minister. When I look at the leaked report, there is absolutely nothing to indicate that there is any reserve in it. That report says that it happened from the ground up with anti-aircraft guns. It was only later that the Minister understood that, according to Ukraine, it could have been done by an airplane. I think that this information should also be given to us in this way, so in two steps. How did the Cabinet handle all this information? I have to say that it has been treated fairly well. No one has come to the idea of wondering what this means for civil aviation. No one has said: should we not discuss this with each other? That didn't happen. It was not shared with the Secretary of State of I and M. During the previous AO she said she didn't have to be in that barrel. I actually think that's a rather simplistic approach. The Secretary of State had a NOTAM from Ukraine and that was enough for her. In the meantime, a plane's been shot down. This should have been approached differently and dealt with by the cabinet. Where's the Prime Minister in this story? He has to coordinate, doesn't he? That just didn't happen. Mr Ten Broeke called it a system error. That system error was in the bosom of the cabinet. Finally, my question. Is the government prepared to ask Ukraine how they came up with the idea that it was safe above flight level 320? Where did they come up with that? I still want to know. Thank you for your patience, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u230	Mr. Chairman. The Minister for Foreign Affairs discussed the confidentiality of a diplomatic memo. He argues that the Netherlands could have difficulties in obtaining further information in the event of disclosure or even the request. I see that dilemma and I understand the position of the Minister. I note that in any case the Research Council can have access to such confidential documents as well. I compare that with a parliamentary inquiry, in which a committee of inquiry can have access, but things are not published. If that works for us, it should work for the Research Council. With regard to access to information, we can see that in any case the intention of the Cabinet is... I have not yet heard any sound that that is different in practice... that the Research Council has access to all documents. It has been shown in recent months that it is still capable of sanding. However, the government cannot currently be accused of knowingly withholding information. Especially when it has been found that there is information requested by the Research Council, it is also provided. Perhaps a little bit more could be done by the cabinet. Where necessary, that must be done. I will, of course, continue to monitor the cabinet closely on this point, as the Foreign Minister has indicated. The chamber's holding the finger on the wrist. However, we too have to wait for that report to be carried out. With regard to identification, the Minister for Justice said on the one hand that it could take many months. On the other hand, however, I heard him say that before 1 June all the remains have been identified. I think that answers two questions. Is that right? Does that mean that it concerns material remains that are already in the possession of the Netherlands, that they may have been identified before 1 June? I would like to have a more detailed explanation of that point. I note that on the question of requests for legal aid to more than ten countries there is a question of carrying out investigations, that with answers you get new questions again and thus also come to more countries. I'll settle for that for now. What I still have difficulty with is the presentation of cases relating to the distinction between civil aviation and military aviation; potential and intention, that discussion. I think we will continue this discussion later when we have the report in our hands. However, for the time being, I find it unsatisfactory that this distinction should be made so sharply. Where there are real risks to military aviation in an area.............................................................................................................................................................................. Then you can't say that there was or isn't a concrete threat, so you don't care. No, then that balance must be considered, including for civil aviation. I will come back to that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u231	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the three directors for their first-term replies, for the comprehensive answers we have received and for their willingness to try to reach a satisfactory answer, even if questions were asked on a number of occasions. It is an important debate on attack, 280 days ago. It was about the three priorities, but also about outstanding questions. Today has become more clear. I would like to begin by thanking Minister Van der Steur for the commitment he made to come forward with at least a letter on the examination of the reading given by the pathologist and the extent to which this professor had the approval of the leadership of the identification team and of the police. If the consequences for this person are so severe, as the Minister has said, I assume that the consequences for those who have initially authorised this will not be mild either. However, some of the answers raised more questions. I would like to come back to the OVV memo. Minister Koenders said that the OVV didn't get the memo from July 14 that he didn't ask about it and that the fact that OVV didn't know that memo is the problem of the OVV. He'll just have to read his mind and guess which memos are available. I find that strange, but I welcome the commitment made by the cabinet today that there will be a discussion on the need for information. I think that's important. I also think it is right for the Chamber to be informed of the outcome of that discussion. I would like to talk about the civil aviation companies, and first of all about the distinction between the risks to military aviation and the risks to civil aviation, that is to say 9.7 kilometres. Mr Van Bommel has already mentioned this. The cabinet says: I do not know what Ukraine based that 9.7 kilometres on. I would say: ask Ukraine and inform the Chamber in writing. I'll ask the cabinet. What were Ukraine's considerations when it decided to close at 9.7 kilometres? Secretary of State Mansveld spoke about the safety of airspace. I still find it really incomprehensible that the Secretary of State does not want to share with us the national commitment to improve the national security system. I have in mind the situation in Yemen, Libya, North Korea. I still find it incomprehensible that she doesn't want to work on that. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to rapidly carry out an independent analysis on how to improve the sharing of safety information in the Netherlands as regards the risks of flying over conflict zones,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Sjoerdsma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33997-40]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u232	I hope, of course, that the Secretary of State will promise to do so, because then I will be able to hold this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u233	Mr. Chairman. What was the key question tonight? The key question was: shouldn't the government have done more than it did? I say again that the government had information on its desk from the Kiev memo. It clearly stated that there were target missiles in the area. It also had the briefing of NATO General Breedlove at its disposal. He said the same thing. The government knew that nearly 20 planes and helicopters had been shot down. She knew other airlines were flying around. If you add that up, why don't you take action? That was supposed to be tonight's key question. Why didn't the government take action? Why did they fall back and did they not go to the airlines to give concrete warning and to discuss it? We really did not get enough answers to that key question. I really am not satisfied with that. We'll definitely come back to this. About sharing information, I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Cabinet keeps secret almost all documents requested by the media regarding the attack on the MH17;]] [[calls on the Government to make public all documents in the context of crisis communication and crisis management, making only the names of the persons concerned who appear in the documents unreadable,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bontes. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33997-41]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u234	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the rulers very much for their comprehensive response. Nine months after this terrible tragedy, the Chamber has now converted three days of continuous discussion of this tragedy with the cabinet. I want to draw some conclusions already. These are about the three priorities that the Chamber shares with the government. I come first to the repatriation of the victims. However harsh it may be, it is good to see that the government itself thinks it is possible to identify all the victims by 1 July. I think that's the news that at least two families were waiting for. As far as tracking is concerned, a net has clearly been ejected. Now a fish has to swim in it, preferably the right fish. I have the feeling that proper progress is being made in the field of detection too. I have already indicated in my contribution that I assume that the government shares with me that the question will then become topical how to be tried. Against this background, I welcome the commitment that the cabinet will actively share this with us. That happens confidentially, but that's understandable. That leaves the trial itself. We must, of course, wait and see how it is going to go, but at least after nine months we are a long way away. Have we had all the important problems with that? No, because as far as I am concerned, the whole debate was about air safety. That's the point. A lot is unclear. The Secretary of State will, I hope, come to the Chamber with more ideas. In this context, I would mention the division of responsibility and the input of security services. Potency and intent were mentioned here. Indeed, the difference between civil and military was already at the heart of the debate in February. If you remove "intent" from "potency," there's always "threat." That is simply the observation that we all have to make here. Can we not say that the idea probably did not occur to anyone that a civil threat had to be identified here? I note that Buk systems can be found in Belarus, Ukraine, Egypt, Libya, Cyprus and even our neighbour Venezuela. I don't need a security service or a website for that. That is quite a circle around Europe, and that, as far as I am concerned, gives the Dutch cabinet an obligation to think actively about it. We also have a reputation in that regard. As I said, I hope that on July 1st I can start a process of mourning after they have been able to bury their loved ones. The next of kin have indicated that a memorial will be organised on 17 July. Can I assume that the cabinet will do everything in its power to make that day a very special day which, just as we saw last year, is worthy and fits the tragedy experienced by the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u235	Mr. Chairman. Thanks also to the rulers from my side for the comprehensive answer to the many questions. I can be very brief: I have two more questions that I would like to put to the leaders. The first concerns the extensive debate on the division of responsibility and the relationship that should exist between the Dutch commitment, Mr Sjoerdsma's motion, which we will certainly support in international consultation and what is now being discussed nationally, since yesterday the working group has met. The Secretary of State has talked extensively about how complicated it is to change something internationally, if only because sovereignty issues are involved. There are perhaps things you can change in the division of responsibility without coming to the question of sovereignty. I refer, for example, to the agreements between the Dutch authorities and the Dutch airlines. In theory, this could be changed without the need for international consultation or a question of sovereignty at any time. Maybe she can go into that. There is another issue that I raised in the first term, but which has not been mentioned by the cabinet. I am looking at the Minister of Foreign Affairs. That is the debate we must have, whether we like it or not, on sanctions against Russia. These will take place in the coming months, partly in July and partly in September. I understand very well that the Minister does not want to come forward with all kinds of suggestions, let alone suspicions. But the uncomfortable truth is that this debate on sanctions against Russia will take place in the coming months. That is why I asked the Minister how he sees the relationship between the forthcoming debate on sanctions, at a time when we do not yet have a report from the Security Research Council, and the Dutch attitude towards the possible softening of sanctions. I would like to ask him to respond to this question with all the success of the arm of this House.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u236	Mr. Chairman. On my behalf, too, many thanks to the government for all the answers. We have already had a handful of commitments in the first period. As far as I am concerned, three themes emerged: firstly, a good exchange of information between the government and the Research Council and, moreover, other research institutions. We made a clear agreement on that, I think. The Minister of V and J will have a good talk with the OVV to look back and determine if there is a need for more information. We await the results of that conversation. Then there's the prosecution issue. The emphasis must now be placed on this. The Minister of V and J said quite clearly: countries are obliged to cooperate, including on the prosecution case. Indeed, the UN Security Council resolution states that all states cooperate fully with efforts to establish accountability. That could be understood by that, but at the same time I have to say that it is a fairly general description. I would like to ask the Minister, in addition to the options for prosecution that he will at some point share with us, what exactly is such a MH17 tribunal going to look like? We should also inform ourselves of the way, under which mandate, countries are obliged, or are about to become, to extradite suspects and, if possible, to get witnesses to that MH17 tribunal. So I would like an extension: not only the options, but also the way we ensure that everyone comes here and under what mandate. We have talked extensively about the safety of airspace. We have agreed on how the Secretary of State will continue to inform us about the international part, European and global. However, I would like to join those who say: continue to inform us about steps taken at national level. I feel that autumn for the Chamber is a horizon that is just too far away. I would therefore like to ask the Secretary of State whether it is not possible to send a clear interim report to the Chamber before the summer on national consultations, so the steps we can take nationally until there is a better international system. Those were my three issues. In conclusion, the extremely painful issue of the pathologist-anatomy. That does not, of course, do justice, let me put it this way, to all those experts in Hilversum, who have done and still do great work, to the people who still do that in Ukraine, over the next two weeks, and to all the efforts of experts and professionals elsewhere. Again, my deep respect for their work.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u237	Thank you. This brings to an end the second term of office. The directors have indicated that they would like to discuss the motions tabled. I'm suspending the meeting for five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u238	Madam President. I would like to thank the Chamber for the extensive debate and contribution this evening. I hope that the Dutch Government has shown that it considers it very important to do everything possible to be as transparent as possible in the direction of the House of Representatives and to answer the questions of the House of Representatives as comprehensively as possible. That is a public interest and an interest of the victims and the next of kin. Several speakers referred to progress in repatriation and detection in the second term. In addition, the dots should be placed on the i. In the coming days and weeks, at least as far as possible will also be done for me to develop international activities in the field of criminal investigations and consensus on them, which are important in what is actually the most important stage in the aftermath of the disaster with the MH17. The Minister of V and J will discuss this in detail. A number of questions have been asked to me. First of all, a question about the Russian Federation. I have spoken about this before with Mr Omtzigt. I believe that there are no new arguments on the table. I said that the most important thing for us was to record the amnesty through the UN Security Council and Ukraine's legislation. I will ensure that Mr Omtzigt gets his questions to the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe as soon as possible. I think we can do this pretty fast. Then there is the question of Mr Klimkin's statements. There have indeed been several interviews with Mr Klimkin, but I thought it important to point out his analysis of the intelligence before 17 July. Klimkin's view is: "There is no kind of information that terrorists had such modern weapons that could not be got in any legal way. We had no kind of information about such weaponry." I wanted to repeat this here without going into any independent evidence. I'm here to talk about the OVV. We wanted to be as open as possible today about how that process went. I've answered the questions about the exact dates and how the law works. I've tried to be as proactive as possible. The Minister of V and J will, of course, address the more specific points. Hopefully, the Chamber is convinced that we do not want to withhold anything here and that it is also in our interest to be as open as possible on all aspects of the OVV. We are going to talk to the OVV at any time, and I say that as Foreign Minister too, to be as proactive as possible and to make sure that all the information the OVV wants is obtained. I come to a number of points raised by the PVV and Mr Bontes in particular. I think we simply do not agree on that. I said it wasn't about withholding business. I thought an overwhelming majority of the Chamber would agree with that. The Chamber was informed, in all conscience, of what changed on the 14th of July. That is also what you have said: it is true. That is also the way government and parliament deal with each other. I really do not think it is justified to exchange diplomatic notes, not only because it sets a precedent, but also because it is a great risk. In order to have any consequences, countries must be able to speak freely, but in confidence, about the type of information that has just been designated "of great importance to safety, including aviation." I would like to comment on the question raised by Mr Van Ojik. It is indeed a very difficult question to answer. The sanctions have been imposed in response to the illegal annexation of Crimea and the destabilising influence of the Russian Federation in Eastern Ukraine. Sanctions against separatists have also been announced. At the last European Council, the extension of sanctions is explicitly linked to the duration of Minsk at the end of this year. There's no direct link to the MH17. I think that the disaster on 17 July last year has had an impact on the dynamics of the decision-making process on these sanctions. That was essential. I am not going to anticipate the results of research, but I can assure you that in June the Dutch Government will call for sanctions to continue until the end of the year, to indicate that any eventuality will be covered in the meantime.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u239	Mr. Chairman. Thank you, first of all, to the members of the Chamber. A very large number have expressed appreciation and respect for all those people who are working day in, day out to deal with the disaster with the MH17; not only the people who are now working in Ukraine or have already been there, but also the people who are working in Hilversum, the people who are supporting the MH17 Foundation, Victim Support Netherlands and the family detectives. I think that the Chamber has rightly appreciated this. I would also like to thank you for your appreciation of the answers given by the cabinet. I'll answer some questions and then I'll come to the motions. In order to avoid misunderstandings, today's news is that the NFI, together with the LTFO, has managed to make arrangements in such a way that, in all likelihood, all remains found and to be found before 1 July of this year, including the remains that will be found today and next week, will be categorized and sampled. The DNA profiles will be established and identified. There are arrangements to ensure that this happens before 1 July of this year. That's one. Mr Ten Broeke then said that it would be good if the two remaining victims were identified. That's the good hope of the cabinet. I cannot, of course, give any certainty about this, because it is not possible to give it. I would like to thank Mr Van Bommel for expressing his confidence that there is no question of knowingly withholding any document and also for his appreciation of my commitment to discuss with the Research Council, among other things, whether there is a need for more or other information or whether there has been a hitch in the provision of information. There are more members who have asked for it. I will do the same as I promised. Mr De Roon and Mr Sjoerdsma have asked if I would like to obtain specific information from the Ukrainians on the escape routes. I understand the question, but I find it difficult. That is one of the questions that are part of the research mission of the Research Council for Security to the flight routes. I wouldn't like to get things from this research or from another research that are extremely important and a question that needs to be answered for everyone. Subsequently, parts are being extracted by the government, about which questions are being asked and answers that may be different from those of the researchers who have been working on them for a long time. I think this causes more confusion and confusion than clarity. What is needed here is clarity and clarity. I therefore believe that we must accept, however difficult it may be, that we should allow the Research Council to do its work and that we should simply wait until that report arrives in October. I listened to Mr Bontes. I think I have to say that Mr Bontes and I do not agree with some of his conclusions. Mr Ten Broeke said that he attaches great importance to the dignity of the commemoration on 17 July. That is, of course, also the approach of the cabinet. It has been agreed that the Stichting Vliegeramp MH17 is in charge. She decides what happens, in consultation with the next of kin. So this really lies entirely with them, but we ensure that everything they think up and want is arranged and financed. I think it is particularly logical that the cabinet should do this for the purpose of concluding the process. I would like to say one more thing about the prosecution. In reply to Mr Omtzigt, I said that all the information necessary for any consideration of the investigation, prosecution and trial will be shared with the Chamber as soon as possible. That may be confidential, if necessary. We shall do so, because we understand very well that the Chamber wants to know what is going on. As soon as that is possible, we will meet this need, at least before October, as Mr Omtzigt specifically asked. I think that goes without saying. Mr Servaes also asked about the issue of persecution. He said that, given the UN resolution, we must make sure that everything is actually done to get witnesses and suspects available. That's clear. It's also the starting point. I have also said this to Nieuwsuur: the starting point of the cabinet was, is and remains that we are doing everything we can to get suspects to be tried. As promised, I will explicitly include this aspect as soon as I am able to provide information on prosecution strategies and the state of the criminal investigation allows this. One of the conditions for the prosecution strategy is, of course, that the likelihood of a suspect and any witnesses appearing should be as great as possible. We will, of course, make that assessment in our strategies. I'm getting to the motions. Mr Omtzigt served the motion in part No. 39 on the establishment of a list of relevant documents. I cannot yet establish whether there is a need for this. I have just promised the Chamber that I will discuss this with the Security Research Council and, if necessary, with the WODC and possibly with the University of Twente. Moreover, I will honour this commitment, even if this motion is not adopted. Strictly speaking, I could say that the Chamber obviously does not need that commitment, but it is quite clear that the Chamber does have this need, and I do now. So I'm just gonna ask you this. I agree with Mr Van Bommel, who asked Mr Omtzigt in an interruption: what is relevant? It is clear that all information requested from the cabinet in this matter will also be provided, whether it be state secrets or not. This also applies if the Security Research Council or the WODC asks for information that the Cabinet considers irrelevant. Given Article 26 of the National Research Council Act, it is not up to the Cabinet to assess whether a requested document is relevant for an investigation or not. If requested, it is at least relevant to the investigation and to the Research Council and is therefore provided. In reply to Mr Omtzigt's question, I say that there is therefore little point in listing relevant documents. It may well be that what the Cabinet considers relevant does not consider the Research Council relevant; or rather, but then it may not be on the list. I have to observe that everything that has been requested has now been delivered, that there is unhindered access for both the OVV, the Public Prosecutor and the WODC under the law. That is why I must advise against the motion, however sympathetic it may be in its starting point. I come to Mr Sjoerdsma's motion on item No. 40. I understand very well that he says that we need to carry out an independent analysis of the way in which aircraft safety information is shared in the Netherlands. For this very reason, the research council investigates the flight route: what happened, how else could it be? I assume the Research Council will report to us on that. Then there is the question of whether it is useful to start doing that work of the Research Council now, double or faster, with the observation that we may have much less capacity for that than the Research Council. I therefore believe that this analysis must certainly be carried out. I say to Mr Sjoerdsma that he will certainly be there as soon as possible after the report of the Research Council has been published on this point. I will also talk to Mr Mansveld about this, but she will be able to tell us a little bit more about what is already happening in this area, given my responsibility for safety. Then I come to Mr Bontes' motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u240	I assume that the advice on the motion will soon be given by the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u241	No, the advice is to discourage the motion. I'll do what it says, but only after the report of the Research Council has appeared.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u242	Mr. Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u243	This time it went well. I ask Mr Servaes not to come forward in order to avoid confusion. When I drafted this motion, I actually had a discussion with Secretary of State Mansveld in mind. I actually expected the Secretary of State to go into this. I do not understand why the Minister of V and J, who I do not think is necessarily concerned with this request, is responding to this motion. I don't understand the distress either. I would be happy to have this debate with the Minister of V and J. I just slept with the Secretary of State. I do not understand the disappointment, because the cabinet is ahead of schedule, and I think that is right on what you can do at European and global level to improve flight routes. At national level, it does not. Both are the subject of the OVV's research.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u244	It's a little tricky. There is a shared responsibility. As Minister of Security and Justice, I am also responsible for NCTV. All aspects related to the safety of Dutch civil aviation abroad are covered by NCTV. In a way, that is what this motion is about. I can only make that analysis from my domain after the publication of the report of the OVV. Mr Mansveld will take this further from the point of view of her responsibility. I shall enter into consultations with her to see whether what she will commit to Mr Sjoerdsma will be done with my full cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u245	I don't really understand. Now Minister Van der Steur says that he can only make his analysis of the role of NCTV after the report of the OVV has come. I don't think that's true. The Minister can only respond officially to the OVV's report if there is, but nothing stands in the way of him making his own analysis of how the national system can be improved. That's what I'm asking.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u246	I get that. The analysis of my domain, to which Mr Sjoerdsma refers, is also about how we dealt with the information at the time in this particular case. That is the subject of research by the Research Council. There is my limitation, but that does not mean that I am not prepared to cooperate with what Mr Mansveld will notice as a result of this motion, given our shared responsibility. Then I come to Mr Bontes' motion on item No. 41. This calls for documents that we have established to be state secret to be made public in a very specific way. This is not in accordance with the law on state secrets. The motion is therefore difficult to implement if I wanted to or should do so. The Security Research Council, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the WODC get all the information they want, including the information that is state secret. So there's no reason for this motion, and that's why I'm not advising her.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u247	Thank you. I give the floor to the Secretary of State for Infrastructure and the Environment for the final part of the answer in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u248	Mr. Chairman. I have two points. I shall begin with a question from the SP Group on airspace in Yemen and Libya. Both the airspace over Yemen and the airspace over Libya is not formally closed. So it was not indicated by the countries themselves. However, EASA (European Air Safety Agency) has issued a safety information bulletin on both countries to alert airlines. This happened for Libya on 25 March and for Yemen on 30 March. Of the Dutch airlines only the KLM operates there and it adheres to EASA's bulletin.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u249	This is going really fast. Is the advice for both countries not to fly over it at any height?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u250	That warning was given by EASA and the KLM succeeds it. EASA is the European Aviation Safety Agency.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u251	For the sake of clarity, therefore, the advice is not to fly at any height above those countries?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u252	That is not what it says here, but I am reading it now, as Mr Van Bommel says. If it is different from what Mr Van Bommel is saying now, I will inform the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u253	I assume that you will be sending a message to the Chamber very soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u254	Yes, very soon, because one of my officials is probably going to check to see if what I said is true. The Sjoerdsma motion in part No. 40 is about sharing safety information. That's what the Minister of Security and Justice is about. However, I understand very well that the Chamber is curious. What are all the parties that sit together going to think from a Dutch point of view and how do they look at that? I think it is important that we develop our own ideas. We've come together. I told him we'd meet again before the recess. I don't think it's a problem to give an interim report after we get together. It can describe what we are talking about, what the topics are. However, we are waiting for the report of the Security Research Council to be published, as the Minister for Security and Justice has just motivated. Then we make the analysis, with everything that we have received as input from that group and where the Chamber then gets an interim report. I can imagine that this is disappointing for the D66 group, but I think this is a good intermediate step. If all the information is available, including the OVV, we can make the final analysis. It would be very unfortunate if we were to anticipate things, not take an opinion or a recommendation and then have to go into rebound. I don't think that's wise. This is a very serious matter. I think it is very important for the Netherlands to take the lead, not only at national level, but also at European and international level as a result of Mr Sjoerdsma's motion. We're in those working groups. We're right there at the ball. I think that's important. Ultimately, the aim is to achieve maximum information exchange as soon as possible so that we avoid future problems arising from flying over conflict zones.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u255	I note that the Secretary of State, having heard the Chamber, is not only about the Sjoerdsma motion that is now before us, but also about other motions for which we have already voted by a rather large majority........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ I must advise my group to vote for or against this motion. That is why I would like to have the following laws. If the Secretary of State means that the report only reflects the state of play in the consultation at that time, I find that a little lean. If she means that in the report it is clear that the Netherlands contributes to independent ideas and is also at the forefront of them, we will come a long way. To be honest, I particularly need to keep the Secretary of State on the Sjoerdsma motion, which the Chamber has already adopted.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u256	I have already said that we are exploring options and alternatives to other and complementary ways of exchanging information and risk analyses. You can do that nationally, but I don't know if that's gonna do you any good. In the end, it concerns all airlines. You want a Dutch passenger, or indeed all passengers, to be able to get on any plane. So I understand your question. I'll take the maximum we've discussed and inserted at the time. Perhaps even a weighting has been made and we have come to the conclusion that something is certainly not going to work. I'll take that. I understand the need for the Chamber to get that information quickly, in order to move forward, but we also need thinking power with all these parties in order to achieve something substantial. I think it is important that the Netherlands takes the lead in developing ideas and that the Netherlands is also at the forefront of the dialogue at European and international level. That is why we are in those working groups. That is why we have been leading the way in the exchange of information and the creation of that website. I will offer the Chamber the maximum, but we depend on all parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u257	I would also like the Netherlands to be at the forefront of this. I also believe that next time I can read that in the report that the Secretary of State has promised us. In conjunction with the logical point just mentioned by the Minister of Security and Justice, that the report of the OVV should, of course, be taken into account in the final formation of ideas, it seems to me that that commitment is sufficient at least for my group at this time. The Secretary of State can be assured that we will continue to look very closely at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u258	It may be me and the time, but I'd like a confirmation. So can we get that mid-term report from the Secretary of State before the summer?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u259	The group meets before the summer recess. I'm doing the best I can to send that mid-term report to the Chamber for the summer recess. But if it all comes in the last week, then it's possible that the Chamber will get that information a week later. There's very little I can do about that. I need to see when the group gets together. I'll make sure that the information comes to the Chamber as soon as possible after the group gets together. We have now agreed that the information on the next meeting will be sent to the Chamber. I'm assuming that's in the first two weeks of July at the latest.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u260	Maybe just for the final clarity, even with a look at the clock. Does the Secretary of State now say that, in July too, ideas, the first commitment of the cabinet to this system, will be sent? Or is it just a list of topics being discussed?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u261	That depends on the question of what state and form the ideas are in. One will be farther than the other. I'm assuming maximum creativity. So I cannot judge now what will come out in July. Perhaps then we are already very far away from the idea-making process on a particular subject, which we can bring forward at European and international level. But for the safety information, for example, the OVV report is still needed. I can't anticipate that. I understand the wish that it should be as advanced as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-14.u262	The vote on the motions tabled will take place next Tuesday. Thank you all for your patience.
