ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-10.u1	I'm reopening the meeting. The next item is the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Smaling of the SP. You have a maximum of two minutes' speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-10.u2	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the two rulers for their reply. I am glad that we have been able to have this debate. Since the last time we talked about plant protection products or agricultural poison, some new facts have come up on the table about turnips and neonicotinoids. They're serious enough to talk about that today. I am convinced that these two Secretary of State are working very hard and that they also want to take everything out of the box to limit or even ban the use of substances that are potentially harmful. I would also like to encourage them to do so. It is a problem that everything is regulated at European level. We have a low-lying land with high groundwater and lots of surface water. That's where all the drinking water comes from. In this sense, the Netherlands is geographically and demographically quite different from the average of those 28 Member States. I think it is necessary that the rulers fight hard once in a while when they sit around the table with those 27 colleagues. I still do not quite understand how the admission issues and the Water Framework Directive relate to each other, despite the fact that Secretary of State Mansveld has made a good effort to explain that. From a scientific point of view, I also have some problems with the causal link that must be demonstrated before any action is taken. Relationships should be scientifically strong enough in themselves to be able to base policies. That is my question to the other Secretary of State. Let us avoid one thing, namely that in a few years' time we will be in a debate of 'we should have' and 'knowledge of today'. We have held debates of this kind in parliamentary surveys, but also elsewhere in politics. At least we shouldn't have that. Because of the hard work of the Secretary of State, I've decided not to make any motions. I hope that they will take that as a heart-to-heart, but that despite that fact there is reason for them to take it extra hard to get rid of substances that are bad for humans, plants and animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-10.u3	I now give the floor to Mrs Ouwehand. Mr. Graus, I thought you had waived a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-10.u4	That's right, Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna stick to that, too. In this way, I would like to thank both Secretary of State for the commitments and the actions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-10.u5	Mr. Chairman. I agree with Mr Smaling, who says that he is confident that the Secretary of State has started working on the motion adopted by the Chamber. We want to strongly encourage them to do so and therefore do not table any motions. However, it still pinches. The concerns are great. The scope for really doing everything that is possible under the precautionary principle seems to be greater than the space that the Secretary of State is currently using. I would therefore like to call on them to take a closer look at that. One of the things that really pinches is the fact that the cabinet shares the concerns about the pesticides we are talking about today and has also started to work, but that the Ctgb will grant new authorisations in the meantime. I don't get it very well. We are looking at whether and how we can modify or restrict existing authorisations, because we want a ban or a restriction of the application. Is the application of the precautionary principle in the eyes of the cabinet really so lean that in the meantime you can't even decide on a moratorium on new authorisations for those funds? I would like to be given a commitment on this subject for the next time we will discuss it. What is not clear to me is exactly who decides on proportionality. I am referring to tackling the imidacloprid in greenhouse horticulture and water treatment. We have already seen that these less far-reaching measures are in all likelihood not sufficient. From the answers of the cabinet, I understand that it is up to the Ctgb to determine what is proportional. I would like to get the commitment that we will get that on paper for the next time we talk about this. This stuff needs to get off the market and get off the shelves. It's about the future of our nature.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-10.u6	Mr. Chairman. It is clear that both Secretary of State are on the right track in terms of intentions. We do not wish to have a arthropods, and we want to reduce the use of neonicotinoids far or we want to have a total ban on it. A careful process must be followed for this. I have the impression that the Secretary of State will remain on the very safe side with regard to the legal risks, but that will soon be a wells-nothing game. For the moment, I would like to give that course the benefit of the doubt. However, a number of commitments have been made concerning additional investigations, their conclusions and further measures. My plea is that I don't want to hear that it can't, but I want to hear how it can. I insist that I have understood from both Secretary of State that this is the intention with which they are both working on this issue. On that basis, I have given up making motions now. I am anxious to await further reports and feedback to the Chamber. If necessary, we will speak. Let it be clear: I do not want to wait another three and a half years for another, too modest step.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-10.u7	Mr Geurts waived a second-term contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-10.u8	Mr. Chairman. It can be very short. I would like to express my appreciation for the work of the Secretary of State, as has already been said by my colleagues. I am pleased that this appreciation has received broad support. In the past it has been proven that action is being taken if there are legal possibilities for doing so. That is why I am convinced that this will continue to happen in the future. Metam sodium was an example of this. I wait with interest and confidence. A concern of ours was the use of fertilizers on sports and recreational grounds. Before this, I had a motion in my back pocket. However, the commitments on this point were so convincing that it would not be appropriate at the moment to submit them, especially I am convinced that the green deal with NOC*NSF that is the basis for this is the right way forward. It is, in fact, a confirmation of the value of cooperation in society with the various parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-10.u9	Mr. Chairman. Mr Graus just called me outside the microphone to be brief. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the first-term response. I note that the debate is four hours away and that the debate has been conducted on the basis of gut feelings and not on the basis of facts. Ridiculous decisions, but certainly the more far-reaching wishes in the Chamber, will ensure that entrepreneurs as well as private users go further. They will, for example, order funds via the Internet or will be dependent on biological agents...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... It's decisions that are non-maintainable. The ridicule decisions will have a major impact on food production, for example. In this context, I would like to draw attention to the use of Roundup in agriculture. I say to the Secretary of State: it may feel good, but these measures are not working. I therefore call on the Cabinet to stop this petty urge.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-10.u10	Mr. Chairman. I'm still shaking my guts about Mrs Lodder's words. In fact, she blames us for the fact that we have been working on the lower abdomen for an entire afternoon, while in my view many colleagues have discussed a very serious problem with the members of the cabinet. So that scares me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-10.u11	Mr President, I am being addressed. I note that we are not having this debate on the basis of facts. If we had, we would have come to different directions. This observation cannot be refuted by Mr Schouw.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-10.u12	In my view, there is a difference between the differences of political views, for whatever reason, and the accusations made to colleagues that they are debating not on the basis of facts but on the basis of the underbelly. I invite Mrs Lodders in all kindness to take a look at the care with which colleagues have prepared and conducted this debate, and at the care with which the cabinet has responded to the issues. Then she really can't say farther away that there has been an afternoon of playing "underbelly." I mean this sincerely.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-10.u13	Mrs Lodders, you may make a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-10.u14	I didn't say anything about care. I have referred several times in my speech to the various authorities and to the Member State Germany as rapporteur. Those are facts, that's the factual basis. I missed it in this afternoon's debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-10.u15	I note that the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats finds something other than a very large majority in the Chamber. I regret that this is classified as "underbelly." I'd have preferred that different. Maybe there's music in there for the future. My group fully agrees with the objectives of the cabinet on this front: transition and greening. Secretary of State Mansveld also mentioned the circular economy. I think that's great. My group is convinced of the activist attitude on this issue, as Secretary of State Dijksma called it. Very good. Chapeau. Full compliments. I understand very well that because of procedural and legal issues, the goal cannot be achieved in one go. This afternoon's profit is that I think the direction is crystal clear, starting with the re-evaluation of the ban on neonates and turnips. We are not talking about that, but the government's commitment is clear, for which we are grateful. I will look into the reply from Secretary of State Mansveld on the treatment plant. I think that's important. We still have to listen to the last input, but I believe that the unique thing about this debate that the parties have said so far as a commitment is concerned is: let us not rush the cabinet further, because we agree, so motions are unnecessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-10.u16	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank both Secretary of State for answering all the questions. My group is very pleased that the Grashoff motion is being implemented. I can tell that the Secretary of State, in particular the Secretary of State for Infrastructure and the Environment, likes to carry out the motion, but that they face legal obstacles. I'd like to call them to do what's possible. In any case, they have the full support of the Christian Union. Two points have been stuck in the first term. I would like to make the following motions on this matter. I hope that the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs will assess them positively. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Noting that the motion adopted by Mr Dik-Faber/Dijkgraaf (27858, No. 287) calls for an acceleration of the registration of basic substances and burden-sharing at European level;]] [[Whereas such registration could speed up the greening of plant protection;]] [[calls on the Government to adopt a European approach to the registration of basic substances,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27858-313]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-10.u17	I have heard through the sector that the Secretary of State is working on this. I hope that the motion will support her to go a step further and to come up with a plan of action. I'd like to file a second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, by amending the Decision, the Secretary of State wishes to permit the use of fertilizers to crack grassland in June for the control of eels by the cultivation of tagetes (africans);]] [[Whereas the derogation from at least 80% grassland will not allow most dairy farmers to lease their land to bulb growers for the cultivation of tagetes because they risk their derogation;]] [[Whereas, in practice, the solution promised to bulb farmers and dairy farmers will not be workable;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with the European Commission, to come up with a workable solution to enable sustainable eel control through the cultivation of tagetes,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27858-314]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-10.u18	I do not understand that Mrs Dik is tabling this motion. The Secretary of State has more or less agreed to this. However, Mrs Dik is now tabling this motion. I'm sorry about that. I don't think that's much of a cherry on the cake. I'm really sorry about this. Suppose the Secretary of State says the motion is policy support. Actually, she's already said that. Is Mrs Dik willing to withdraw her motion? I am concerned about the first motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-10.u19	Oh, I understand now that Mr Graus is responding to the first motion I tabled. To be honest, I didn't hear the Secretary of State say this. I had a very limited number of interruptions. I asked the Secretary of State if the Chamber would get any information on the low-risk means. In my second question, I asked what exactly is going on with these basic substances. I did not receive the signal that the Secretary of State was going this way. If the Secretary of State has actually promised this during the debate, then the motion is superfluous and I will, of course, withdraw it. I'm just waiting for the Secretary of State's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-10.u20	Mr. Chairman. I thank the members of the Chamber for their support. A large number of Members have not tabled any motions. In doing so, they have also indicated that nobility is mandatory. That's part of it and that's definitely how we experience it. A number of Members still have questions about the procedures. What exactly is the deal with that? What is possible and what is not possible? I think it would be good to take a good look at how we can get that to the Chamber in the clearest possible way possible. I believe that this debate has shown that the way in which we want to act must always be based on scientifically validated data. It is not us, it is the Ctgb who decides on the admission of resources. The admission is thus independently organised. I mentioned a work visit earlier, but I can also imagine that a technical briefing would be chosen. That might be an option. In this way, we could have the regulation clarified once again and have it put in a row in front of the Chamber, which is precisely what this means. So I keep thinking along with the Chamber about how we can get as clear as possible what exactly the playing field is. What's space? Where is the responsibility of the cabinet? How does Ctgb have its responsibility in this matter? So I am very willing to write that down again, but such a briefing might be a more effective method. There is already a letter and there are already several responses from the cabinet to what the Chamber has requested. However, the exchange on paper has apparently not been sufficiently effective so far. So perhaps we should think about that again. The precautionary principle, on which Mrs Ouwehand asked a question, is contained in the regulation. Without an assessment and approval, no authorisation is possible. That is what the regulation says. Mr Smaling says that, when it comes to correlations, this must be enough to make policy on that basis. Under the Regulation, only if the conditions of authorisation cannot be met. So you can intervene on an admission. The authorisation itself is based on an assessment of the active substance and the product. The whole review framework and the way in which we should look at it has been established, as has the legislation. I think it would be useful to go further into this in a technical briefing. Mrs Dik-Faber has asked questions about the basic substances. I promised I'd get back to that in the second term, so I will now. I hope she will forgive me when I say that her motion in part No. 313 is superfluous. On the basis of what we are doing, I hope to convince Mrs Dik-Faber of this. Indeed, an EU decision must also be taken for the approval of basic substances. This is also done on the basis of an EFSA assessment. Moreover, that assessment shall be carried out in accordance with the applicable review framework. This means that a dossier must be submitted within the European Union that can be assessed. Only if an application is submitted with a dossier can the Authority provide an assessment and, where appropriate, grant an approval. For example, there is currently no request for beer. In the short term, a second pilot project on basic substances will be launched. This is happening at our request, because the Chamber has hunted us before to do something about this dossier. The Netherlands will participate in at least one pilot. We are doing this in the context of accelerating the greening of plant protection. We consider it will not be surprising to carry milk. The substance presented for this pilot is determined together with stakeholders "Bionext' and "LTO'. Eight basic substances have now been authorised. In the Netherlands, we have decided that substances on the so-called RUB list, such as beer and milk, may still be used. We have decided to organise this as a concession. This is my substantive reaction to the motion in part No. 313 by Mrs Dik-Faber. In the motion in part No. 314 asks Mrs Dik-Faber to go back to work, even with the European Commission, to make sustainable eel control possible through the cultivation of Tagetes. I have already said that I do not want to do anything with which I will renegotiate the requirements of the derogation. I have to understand the motion. I want to be very clear that I don't think this is a good route. Unfortunately, therefore, I have to make the motion in part No. 314 dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-10.u21	The motion in part No. 313 I will withdraw after further clarification by the Secretary of State. The motion in part No. 314 I will continue, because I do not want us now to interfere with the derogation. I want to talk to some stakeholders to see where the opportunities and opportunities are. I'd like to keep in touch with the Secretary of State. We have a very good alternative to metam sodium, but let us see if we can actually apply it. I'd like to work on that. A vote would not help in that context.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-10.u22	Since Mr Dik-Faber's motion (No ) has been withdrawn, has ceased to be the subject of a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-10.u23	Two questions remain to me. I made a commitment to Mr Smaling. Indeed, there is a difference between the waters. There is also a technical side to the story with regard to the Water Framework Directive and how it works and with the European story. I would like to send my response to this in a letter to the Chamber. There was also Mr Schouw's question. Now, indeed, there seems to be no or almost no adequate water treatment for imidacloprid, so that can reach the highest concentrations in the water. I have just informed my department that I want the sector to be called upon to do so. I will send a letter to the sector on this. I'll ask the waterboards for enforcement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-10.u24	When that happens, it's fantastic. Could we agree that the Chamber will hear from the Cabinet at the end of September or something about what that has achieved?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-10.u25	I do not know whether there is a letter or a collection letter; in that case I try to include this. If not, I have no problem doing that separately.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-10.u26	I would like to thank both Secretary of State for their second-term response. I would like to thank Members for their presence and input. I thank those who have followed this debate for their interest.
