ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u1	The Minister of Security and Justice has already been welcomed, but I do so again, because it is the first time he has defended a legislative proposal here. We are very curious how that will work. We wish him a great deal of wisdom in the performance of his duties in this Chamber and also in this debate, but I see that he has also brought along the necessary codes of conduct. That's a novum. At least he has that kind of support. I call Mrs Van Bijsterveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u2	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to congratulate the newly elected President on her election. Now that she's not here, I'm gonna do it this way. I am also pleased to see that the Minister has included the necessary reference work. I therefore look forward to the debate on the legislative proposal before us with extra confidence. In the earlier phase of the discussion of this bill, the CDA Group has stated that it considers it very important that football vandalism and serious nuisance are adequately combated when these phenomena occur. Protecting public order and guaranteeing personal security and good is very important for my group. Football vandalism and serious nuisance are socially unacceptable. That is why my group is sympathetic to this bill which extends the powers of the mayor, the officer and the criminal justice officer in order to be able to act adequately to combat football vandalism and serious nuisance when necessary. The CDA Group also considers it equally important, if not more important, that systematic and effective efforts be made to prevent these forms of nuisance. The review of the efforts of all the parties concerned, focusing on prevention, in particular on football vandalism, was therefore enlightening. My group understands that it is very difficult to understand its impact. Or could the Minister perhaps point to tangible results that this has brought about? Back to the proposal itself. My group has a few more questions. That is what I'm going to sum up here in succession. The Council of State is quite critical of criminal law. In short, the Council of State considers the provision to be too general. The Council also has reservations about the possible application in the case of minor or minor offences. Can the government elaborate on this criticism? The proposal also lays down the basis for giving a mayor's order when a private organisation has imposed a sanction on a person for behaviour that causes the mayor to fear that the person will disturb public order. In an earlier treatment, the so-called AMvB requirement of the sanctions included has been dropped. It is not quite clear to my group, despite what is stated in the reply, what the independent significance of the provision on the private sanction is now ultimately, if we understand correctly, in all cases the mayor himself must assess whether the sanctioned behaviour is sufficient grounds for applying Article 172a, paragraph 1. Can the government state clearly whether the instruments also cover the situation of football vandalism abroad? That wasn't entirely clear to us. Finally, in an article in the Dutch Juristenblad, in episode 19 of this year, Schilder and Brouwer propose that the mayor be given the power "to prohibit a supporter from visiting matches of the football club of his municipality played anywhere on the grounds of fear of disruption of public order for a maximum time limit." This would be more convenient than the current proposal and would immediately cover all outings, both domestic and foreign. This should go hand in hand with the power "to enforce that visit ban by reporting on each specific contest of that specific bvo over time." There will have to be a heavy fine on that. My question is: what is the government's position on this suggestion? Would it even fit in with the system of Dutch legislation regarding the territorial scope of mayoral powers? With interest, my group looks forward to the Government's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u3	Mr. Chairman. It is a pleasure to hold a debate in this Chamber with this Minister of Security and Justice on public order and security, administrative and criminal law and the right measure of things. Whether the pleasure is mutual must be waited. In advance, I wish the new colleagues who take part in this debate in their first performance, and I would like to go ahead with them. They will undoubtedly enrich the exchange of views with their insights. The bill we are discussing today fits into a long series of laws over the past decade. These laws give the mayors more sanctioning and order enforcement powers. It seems to be a political-administrative addiction: the dominant response to a social inconvenience with a potential appearance in the public domain is over and over again to give the mayor new, often far-reaching powers in terms of restrictions of liberty and physical coercion; administrative detention, forced entry, temporary removal, administrative fine nuisance public space and area bans. Most of these powers are directly linked to public order. That is not illogical, because the maintenance of public order has traditionally been an important responsibility of the mayor. Traditionally, the police were at his disposal and under his authority. In very special cases, the mayor also had his own direct command over citizens, but then we talked about emergency conditions. The arsenal, the mayor's toolbox, as the Council of State described it, has been greatly expanded in recent years with increasingly direct powers directed towards the citizens. My group is very concerned about this development. The mayor increasingly bears the star of the sheriff, his powers of order also seem to contain more and more sanctioning, punitive elements. I wonder, in my mind, whether that is a sensible development and whether the mayor is not increasingly entering the area of criminal law and that of the prosecution and of the judge. This concern is also expressed in legal science. I refer, for example, to an address of a few years ago by the Nijmegen professor of administrative sanction law, Henny Sackers. He stated that the growing role of the mayor as a problem owner of law enforcement is increasingly going to wring with other roles like that of the keeper and sometimes also the shepherd of local society. He argued for restraint on this point and for a certain shift of powers to the judiciary, in particular the Judge Commissioner. Now is not the time and place to discuss this issue in detail. The further positioning of the mayor will be discussed at another time, also in the light of the discussion on the method of appointment. We will also have to wait for the promised investigation into the clarity and applicability of public order law. It is clear, however, that my group is also considering the current proposal to tighten up the powers of order in the context of football vandalism and other nuisances in the context of this concern. The sheriff sometimes pricks painfully into the mayor's chest, who wants to be the administrative connector and citizen's father or mother in the first place. This is not always so easy to combine, but the Minister does not want to know his answer. In that reply, the Minister, who inherited and continued the legislative proposal of his predecessor, provided a number of critical comments from my group with an answer, in one case also effective, for which thanks. I shall confine myself here to the most important points on which the Minister's reaction has not convinced us at this stage. It concerns the need for this tightening up, the proportionality of the measures and the scope of the powers. First of all, the necessity. I'm saying it's a little domestic, but the motivation for this bill is a little shaky. The law on which this proposal is complementary and tightening up dates from only a few years ago, I believe September 2010. An early part-evaluation from 2012 was therefore hardly given the law to be applied, as some instruments were perceived as less effective and bottlenecks were felt by KNVB, VNG and mayors. But were there also objective circumstances that called for tightening up? The Minister refers to some football-related incidents from the end of 2011. At the same time, he has to admit that since the introduction of the 2010 law, the number of football vandalism incidents has fallen in size and seriousness. As the Advisory Section of the Council of State rightly pointed out, the evaluation does not reveal a structural shortage of measures to combat serious nuisance in public space. The Minister will understand that his argument that "even though the number of serious incidents is decreasing, an effective approach to serious nuisance remains necessary," although I am not opposed to it. I would like to invite the Minister to go into this more concretely. Just creating more powers for mayors so that they have more choice, even more tools in that overcrowded coffin, isn't that not enough foundation for firm, freedom-limiting intervention? More legislation is not always the right way forward, especially if the need for it cannot really be demonstrated. Which brings me to the content of the bill. First of all, the proposal to include first offenders with the administrative powers provided for in Article 172a. It was only a few years ago that both the Government and the Public Prosecutor's Summit explicitly stated that no such serious measures could and could be taken on the basis of a single incident, because of the need for proportionality. There always had to be a recidivism. What was recognised as a firmly anchored principle in 2010 cannot be removed in a few years' time? The government, having received similar criticism from the Advisory Section, has left the term "repeatedly" aside, but has made an exception for serious disorder, in other words, involvement in group nuisances by someone who has never been in sight before would be sufficient for profound restrictions of freedom. However, proportionality can still be questioned. The legislator does not give any further indication of what is serious in this case and what is not. Well, that's up to the mayor to decide. Can it make that distinction without corresponding legal criteria? I am also not sufficiently clear as to why this 'intruder who is seriously misbehaving' should be threatened with administrative sanctions, even if this is the first time. A serious misconduct, I believe, is, above all, a reason for a criminal response. I would like to hear the Minister's views on this. Secondly, I have a few questions about the scope of the legislative proposal. The early evaluation focused in particular on football-related nuisances. The bill sees not only football vandalism, but also other forms of nuisance, around other sports and events, around the turn of the year or in fights and disorder in the neighborhood. I get the impression, and it is actually more than an impression, that the tightening up is fully motivated by the desire to be able to take even more effective action against football hooligans. Can the Minister explain to us why the extension of powers, not only with regard to first-offers, but also with regard to the extension of the bans on the territory and the obligation to notify, should also apply to all these other forms of public disorder and nuisance, other than football vandalism? The causal relationship seems to be very far-fetched. In this context, I would like to draw your attention to the former Member of Parliament, Mrs Dijkhoff, who felt that this bill could also be applied to returned Syrians who could be required to report to monitor them. That seemed to me to be a rash thought at the time, and I am very pleased that the Minister's reply makes it clear that this legislative proposal only allows action to be taken in the event of a clear disturbance of order or serious fear of it. That misunderstanding and that suggestion are fortunately out of the world again. According to the Minister, specific measures applicable to jihad fighters, whether returned or not, need separate legal bases, and that seems to me to be the right way forward. Another point concerns the relationship between the administrative powers and the private sanctions of the paid football organisations, the BVOs and the KNVB respectively. In the written exchange of views, it became clear that there is or should be no automatic linking of administrative measures, e.g. a notification obligation or area ban, to previously imposed private sanctions, e.g. a stadium ban by the club. It must be a matter of the mayor's own assessment of the underlying behaviour, in which the mayor must respect the conditions of Article 172a. It is good that this has been so clearly established. The private sanction is only a starting point for the mayor and not the end of his assessment. This, of course, raises the question that the CDA Group asked earlier and which has just been more or less repeated by Mrs Van Bijsterveld, why this private sanction should actually be in the law in so many words. Unfortunately, the Minister's answer, which is made explicit in this way, that the behaviour on which the mayor initially had no information of his own should be dealt with by means of administrative measures, is not convincing. This also applies, for example, to footage from the press that will be available a few days later? That's not information the mayor himself collected. He'll come to him later, but he can perform on that basis. That's not in the law either. Maybe the Minister can go into that. Is the mayor or is he not dependent on private sanctions and then able to impose an administrative stadium ban on himself? I would also like to put this question to the Minister. This question was raised last month by professors Brouwer and Schilder, to whom Mrs Van Bijsterveld also referred, in the Dutch Juristenblad in response to the Roman riots by Feyenoord-hooligans. I hope the Minister will respond to that. Now that the mayor's own assessment is so clearly emphasised in this context, I also assume that the Minister will, of course, strengthen general agreements between mayors and paid football organisations that private law stadium bans will be followed by administrative bans or reporting obligations, out of the question. Such an automatism would, I understand, be contrary to the law. I would also like to comment on this. Finally, a question on the basis for a regulation as provided for in the proposed Article 172a, third paragraph, in which a mayor may impose an administrative measure on behalf of another mayor if he fears disorder in that other municipality. I understand the ratio of that. This way you can easily arrange a ban to visit off-games. That's very convenient. But is it not a unique fact that the jurisdiction of a local administrator, whose powers are limited to the area of one's own municipality, is thus stretched? Or should the decision of one mayor be read here as the judge a decision of the other mayor, on whose territory the strike takes place? I would like to hear a little more about this from the Minister, if only for the history of law. These professors have expressed doubts about the sustainability of such constructions in the Dutch Juristenblad and have proposed an arrangement for Ms Van Bijsterveld to refer to them in which a mayor can prohibit a supporter from visiting competitions of the club anywhere in the world for a certain period of time. This seems to me personally rather cross-border in several respects, but perhaps the Minister would like to shed his light on this too. Is that even possible? The mayor of, say, Nijmegen, who forbids a NEC supporter from visiting a competition in Russia. As far as I am concerned, it could provide interesting case law. I await with interest the Minister's answer, not just on this question but on all my first-term questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u4	Mr. Chairman. On behalf of my group, I should like to begin by congratulating Mrs Broekers once again on her election as President of our Chamber. I would also like to congratulate you, Mr President. We're talking about a bill about sports. In sport, the adage "what's good comes soon" applies. Apparently this applies not only to sport but also to the Vice-Presidentship of our Chamber. Of course, I would also like to congratulate those colleagues who are about to make their maiden speech. Unfortunately, I was assigned to them, otherwise I would of course have done so afterwards. I should like to express my satisfaction in advance about their contribution to our exchanges of views here. The legislative proposal we are discussing has been welcomed by the VVD Group. During the written preparation we asked some questions. We thank the Minister. Most of his answers were convincing. For the most part, these answers are convincing. It is customary for us to ask ourselves every legislative proposal: is there a problem? And if so, does this bill solve the problem? Both questions are answered in the affirmative by my group. Yeah, there's a problem. In the case of matches in the paid football, there are regular disturbances of order and criminal offences are committed. This causes social unrest, damage, fear and insecurity. People are asking for government protection. And the government has a duty to do everything possible to provide protection. What has the government done so far? It started in the eighties with the mayor of Deventer, Cees Waal. He forbade a competition of Go Ahead, for fear of disturbance of public order. A complete surprise: ban the seemingly untouchable football matches! No one in the administrative Netherlands had ever taken that into account. Since then, police, clubs, KNVB, mayors and justice perform almost every weekend, in large numbers. And mostly successful. Much has been improved and much has been done. But we're not there yet. The starting point is: Deventer in the 1980s. But the end point isn't yet. To support this judicial, administrative and civil action, the Football Act came in 2010. Soon some imperfections came to light. In 2012, the Safety and Justice Inspectorate, the BVO mayors and the KNVB requested amendments to the football law. It was about tightening up. It is not a question of new measures, but of improving the existing ones, so that they would become more effective. It concerned group bans, prohibitions and reporting obligations. These should also apply to first-offers in the event of serious disorder. The stadium ban of the club or the KNVB should be supplemented by a ban on the area around the stadium. Forgings and bans should be spread over 90 playing days in 2 seasons. In addition to an area ban, the courts should also be able to impose an area ban. In fact, this means house arrest and a travel ban, for example to competitions abroad and in the Netherlands. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats supports these measures. They may not solve everything. But they can make a positive contribution to combating football vandalism. My group does not share the objection that this would change the football law too quickly. The request for adaptation comes directly from practice. It was worn wide. The situation will not be different if we wait and see. The impact of this proposal can also be taken into account in the assessment in five years' time. Does the bill give too much space to mayors? Is there any fear of excessive use of the proposed measures? My group does not have that fear. The mayor is the first to face the disturbances of order and its negative consequences. That calls for a performance. But the mayor is not a ruler. He acts in a triangle, along with police and justice. That may be too much mayoral enthusiasm. In addition, there is a court of law to the administrative judge. Mayors have shown that they take responsibility and that they address the problems in a balanced way. The Council of State points out that the mayor's toolbox is becoming overcrowded. In itself, that's right. And it's desirable to put that coffin in order. In the meantime, however, my group does not consider it desirable to remain still, because the football violence continues. The toolbox offers customization and that full box is in good hands at the local authority triangle. By the way, there will almost always be a quadrilateral. Because bvo and KNVB also play a positive and indispensable role in this. This quadrangle is primarily responsible for security and public order. With this bill, we are helping the quadrilateral to fulfil its responsibility. That is why we are in principle in favour of this proposal. But we still have some questions. In the Regiegroep Football and Security there would be further talk about the digital reporting obligation. How's this going? And who's gonna pay the costs? What happens if the reporting obligation and the ban are violated? Can adequate action be taken on this? Would arrest out of the blue be a desirable addition? In response to the opinion of the Council of State, the Minister writes that there will be an investigation into the mayor's toolbox. We would also like to be informed about this. The written and oral proceedings have so far focused on the issue of football violence. But the proposal also refers to old and new, going out, events. Also called jihadism. In the Minister's view, are these all different problem areas, each of which requires a specific approach? Or are there points of agreement that require a uniform approach? Doubt the VVD has in the proposed regulation for a stadium ban of outings. The bill gives the BVO mayor the power to also act on behalf of other mayors who have applied for it. This scheme was criticised in the NJB. Professors Brouwer and Schilder propose an alternative. In short, this alternative means that a mayor imposes a reporting obligation on his own supporters of his own club, including for outings. This supporter must then report to his own home town during the outing of his favourite club. That makes it impossible for this supporter to visit the outing match. How does the Minister assess this criticism in the NJB? In the reply, the Minister writes on page 8, in the last sentence of the first paragraph: "There is currently no reason to expect additional efforts from the partners." Partners are probably meant: the KNVB and the BVOs. Does this mean that, now that the ideal situation has been achieved, we will only have to consolidate? Or is it peace and quiet and we'll move on later? Neither of them seems desirable to me. The actual state of play with the paid football and the comparison with other sports invite more action from all parties involved, in particular KNVB and BVO's. Every weekend there are soccer incidents. Every weekend, police are needed. There's no way to play without a cop. It distinguishes football from other sports, such as rugby or cycling. So apparently there's another way to do it. Why is that? I don't know the answer. But it must be in the sport itself. In the culture, the players, the spectators, the organization, the clubs. This indicates that we can expect a lot from football itself. Indeed, much has already been achieved, but my group is wondering: do the KNVB and the BVOs still have untapped possibilities? And are they willing to use it? The KNVB calls for more criminal law. My group believes that criminal law should be reserved for the purpose of targeting and prosecuting only the most serious forms of football violence. My group looks forward with interest to the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u5	What do you think about when you talk about more efforts by BVOs and KNVB? Can you give us some examples?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u6	I think so. A little more could be expected from the players, both in terms of wagering through the week towards the supporters as well as during the games. Also the condoning talk about sometimes apert misconduct on the fields could be different. In the context of the control of stadium bans, where ticket sales still offer opportunities, there is still more to be achieved. For example, there are a lot of things for creative minds who really want to do about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u7	I'm thinking about the club card, where we've been seeing all kinds of failures for 20, 30 years. That never really helped. Would Mr Schouwenaar agree with me to consider the world of VO as a commercial market and to tackle the costs related to government efforts, in particular police action?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u8	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u9	Look, that's what I was afraid of.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u10	I am pleased to have been able to answer your question to your satisfaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u11	I call Mr Van Dijk, who is making his maiden speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u12	Mr. Chairman. I find it an honor and also very pleasant to have my maiden speech in this Chamber today. A smooth scissor movement, an intelligent heel, a goal scored from an impossible angle, football at the highest level is a pleasure for many people to watch. The grace and virtuosity of many players, the sophisticated player tactics and the thrilling discharge after an exciting match captivates and pulls. What a pity it is that this is not the whole story, that there are also side effects, shadows. It already starts with the fact that football matches at the highest level are often played on Sundays. For example, policemen are forced to work on Sundays, on the day given to us to catch our breath, to reclaim our hearts to the Lord God. That's just a shame. A soccer game, no matter how exciting, doesn't make it to an inspiring sermon. And then I haven't mentioned the riots and vandalism: a plague for citizens, shopkeepers and train crews. This misconduct is often accompanied by strong alcohol consumption. I ask the Minister: what does he actually oppose declaring stadiums permanently to be an alcohol-free area? The SGP supports measures to significantly reduce misconduct and nuisance. Last month I was in Rome with my son Rutger, but one landmark was hidden: the famous Fontana della Barcaccia. This fountain has been so badly damaged by Feyenoord supporters that the repair work was still in full swing. I do not want my voting behaviour to be influenced by this personal disappointment, but it is a good thing that the bill provides additional tools when it comes to competitions abroad. Last week the Minister worked out this in his answers to questions from the Dutch MPs Van Nispen and Kooiman. Yet I began to read the bill with some scepticism. In recent years, so many additional powers have been created in the field of public order. And isn't it the Council of State that indicates that the mayor's toolbox is overcrowded? When your toolbox bulgs out, it gets harder and harder to pick out the right instrument. Is it not reasonable to make more effective use of the existing instruments? In addition, we must recognise in all sobriety that the number of serious abuses in stadiums has been falling for years. Isn't the tightening-up now too much driven by incidents that hit the media? In any case, the exchange of views in writing has partly removed my scepticism. I would also mention the report of the Safety and Justice Inspectorate on the practical application of this law. In administrative practice, there appears to be a serious use of the current instruments. This is used, among other things, in the area of congestion. In our view, the bottlenecks that exist cannot be solved primarily by more effective use of existing instruments, but by tightening them up, for example in the case of the demand for repetition. I therefore see this as the main objective of the legislative proposal: not first of all to create new instruments, but to upgrade and strengthen the current powers. In the meantime, I look forward to the announced investigation into the role of the mayor and the accumulation of powers with him. Maybe the Minister can say something about the timetable. After all, the risk remains that we will constantly increase the instruments by means of small changes and adjustments. Then it would be better to look at the gaps in the legislation once in a row and in full. Even if there is a first serious disturbance to public policy, this legislative proposal may take a measure under Article 172a of the Municipal Act. The SGP welcomes that. It is really too crazy for words to say that, in today's practice, we must wait for a second serious disturbance before we can use such instruments. Like people can't know the first time, you can't throw a brick at a cop. There is much to be said for a person who is guilty of such behavior for the first time to take a firm approach to preventing him from slipping even further. As far as I am concerned, the reservations expressed by the Minister on this point, I refer to the reply: 'as a rule, therefore, a measure under Article 172a can only be imposed in the event of repeated abuses'. After all, the first blow is worth a dropper. My concern is whether the concept of "serious disturbance" is not too elastic. Does the law offer sufficient clarity at this point? Is the use of an offensive choir, for example, a serious disturbance? Speaking of speaking choirs: a particular and persistent problem in stadiums is formed by anti-Semitic choirs. I am thinking of supporters of FC Utrecht who not so long ago started singing about Jews as fire material, wondering if the word "singing" is appropriate here. I call on the Minister to promote the use of the re-arranged toolbox as an excellent toolbox to contain this evil. Is he prepared to do so and what possibilities does he see for that? In the 2013-2014 season, the police have deployed almost 300,000 man hours for the supervision of football matches. The enormous costs involved in this are still being spent on taxpayers. Many football clubs swim in the money and pay their players bizarre salaries. Where extra agents or even ME platons need to be deployed, this should not be done at taxpayers' expense, but should be passed on to football clubs as a whole. What additional possibilities does the Minister see here? I conclude my maiden speech, as I understand it is customary, with a personal remark. "If you run away from everything, you're always free." This striking phrase I read recently in the novel "The Last Escape" by Jan van Mersbergen. That novel shows that real freedom has everything to do with connectedness, dedication and rooting. Unlimited freedom results in loss and dissolution. Also in this very beautiful First Chamber it is often about freedom and freedoms. But what is the relief of freedom? A truly free and independent person does not restrict his freedom, but fill in through the love of Christ and the love of his fellow citizens. From this love I also want to try to fill in my Chamberwork: free to serve others and to seek the good for our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u13	Thank you very much, Mr Van Dijk. Please stand still, to receive my heartfelt congratulations on your maiden speech. With a variation on the famous Groen van Prinster's slogan, I say: there has been talk, it has been done. I quote Groen van Prinsterer, because you published about him in the nineties and two years ago this tiny booklet with quotes from him................................................................................................................................................................................. As you can see, I've done a lot of preparatory work! He's a great inspiration to you. I do not know if he would have wanted us to quote him in this Chamber, since in 1840 he described the Upper Chamber as "a failed copy after an English model." That's very convenient today. At that time, the members of the First Chamber were still appointed by the King. I am therefore curious whether Green van Prinsterer would now have the same opinion on the Upper House. Mr Van Dijk, I give a brief outline of your background. You've studied law. That's always good in Utrecht. Since 1996, you have been a policy officer for the SGP Group in the House of Representatives. As a result, you have gained extensive experience at the Binnenhof, a place to which you are attached and for which you have once lost an appointment elsewhere. In addition to your political work, you are also a columnist for various newspapers. For example, you argued that Article 36 of the Dutch Confession of Faith is used as a guide for the government and you wrote about christophobia in secular politicians and media. You also initiated a pamphlet against anti-Semitism last year. The role of religion in our society undoubtedly has your particular attention. We have just noticed this in your contribution. Recently, in an interview, you indicated that you would like to cash in the knowledge you have acquired across the street. As a policy officer, you have dealt with foreign affairs, defence, European affairs, infrastructure and the environment, and these are basically the issues that you will be dealing with in this Chamber, as I understand. Your social and political experience predicts an interesting further contribution to the work of this Chamber. We wish you good luck with that. I'm suspending the sitting to give my fellow Members the opportunity to congratulate you on your maiden speech. I'll hand you a bunch of flowers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u14	I now give the floor to Mrs Bikker of the Christian Union, who is also going to make her maiden speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u15	Mr. Chairman. Thank you for your words. On behalf of my group, I would also like to congratulate our new President, Mrs Broekers. I assume that you will pass on your congratulations with a lot of respect. I also wish you all the good in your presidency here. It's nice to meet you like this. Mr. Chairman. Beautiful collective moments build up the community. Whether it's a city party, a sports tournament or a new year's opening. What is it then indigestible and annoying that there is with great regularity a group of vandals that focuses on degradation. We all know the examples of competitions that lost their luster due to malpractice from so-called supporters or from year changes that ended in a mess with unacceptable violence against aid workers. We do not want to tolerate that. This Chamber will soon agree on that. However, this raises the question of where this behavior comes from and what are the appropriate means to counter it and better prevent it. The bill we are discussing today does not, in my view, create the expectation that it will solve this whole problem. However, efforts are being made to increase the capacity of the authorities concerned to tackle the problem. The Christian Union Group sees the usefulness of the ban on the territory, the ban on the group and the reporting obligation. They are clearly instruments that prevent peace from being disturbed by rioters who can go their own way and can only be removed once evil has already been done. At the same time, they are solid instruments. They affect the individual's personal freedom and therefore there must be a thorough justification for its application. The original law of 2010 has already been established in order to combat football vandalism, but in the opinion of several municipalities, KNVB and paid football organisations it appears difficult to apply it to football vandalism. That is the government's main argument for proposing an amendment at the moment. The first question is: how is it that the old law is not the appropriate coat that these people were looking for? If these desires were already known in 2010, then that suggests the literature in any case, why didn't the original law contain these possibilities? Can the Minister explain that? The current bill clearly has good intentions. This is clear for the Christian Union Group, but there are still some essential questions to be answered before we can conclude whether these good intentions also have the desired outcome. These are the following points: the legality and effectiveness of this proposal, the position of the mayor, the place that private organisations are given and, finally, the roots of this law. I will go through these points a little more in detail after this. I shall begin with the legality and effectiveness of this law. The Council of State has already sighed that the mayor's toolbox is actually getting too full. That conclusion has already been drawn. When the football law was drawn up, many, including in this house, pointed to the instruments already in place in the Municipal Law, the special laws and possibilities in the APV. Senator Holdijk also outlined this on behalf of our group. Moreover, the regulation is overlapping. Why has not a more thorough proposal been adopted, which avoids overlap and creates clarity? Why has it not been considered how several instruments are little used? The criticism of some that the bill at the time was called football law, but above all became an instrument for dealing with other forms of nuisance, seems to be true. Does the Minister share that opinion? And if so, why is a new choice of broad wording rather than a genuinely focused football law? The Christian Union Group has its doubts about the adaptation that makes it possible to impose a freedom-limiting measure on first offenders. If you look at the case law of Article 172a, you will find that application is usually a matter for proper file-making. Without a clear file with leads, no restrictions on freedom, the judge ruled. That is, of course, quite right, because we are talking about the fundamental rights of an individual who is being restricted by government. It is not for nothing that the Minister states that the criterion is "repeated" in the law. But that does not apply to the first offenders, because then the test is "serious disturbance" of public order. How exactly does the Minister define "serious disturbance"? Isn't that always a criminal offense? If so, isn't the criminal route the right way? My group also likes to know whether and how this measure involves the formation of a first-offer. It will be said to the audience, "It cannot be there, nor can it be there." But then the demands of proportionality and subsidiarity are so strong that I wonder when this article can be applied by a mayor. That brings me to the second point: the powers of the mayor. In 2010, the VVD group expressed the fear that the mayor would be seen as the local sheriff. I read similar reservations from colleagues from D66, PvdA and GroenLinks. Mr De Graaf has just spoken about this. Those are legitimate reservations. For the Christian Union Group, this discussion follows two lines. One touches the rule of law. The new powers extend the scope for taking freedoms, which directly affects fundamental rights. I already asked the Minister why the criminal route is not chosen for first offenders. Isn't it much more appropriate to implement this through justice, through the judge with his expertise? I am curious to see the Minister's view on this point. The second line looks at the implications it has for the office of mayor; traditionally apolitical, but with this bill again more political and therefore more political. That makes it vulnerable. Furthermore, democratic accountability is complicated. In the note Your Majesty's and Magistrate's about the state of the mayor's office that made the Ministry of the Interior see the light of day last year, we see these concerns. The Christian Union Group asks about the nature of the further reflection which the cabinet intends to attach to this note. Does it lead, for example, to a new layout of the mayor's toolbox? And if this is actually being considered, why is this bill so urgent that it cannot be put in place for a moment? Thirdly, the role for private organisations, which several of my colleagues have already mentioned. The sanction of a private organisation can play a role in imposing an area ban. In response to the Council of State, the government stresses that the mayor should nevertheless make his own independent assessment. That is why I would ask you to describe precisely what the added value of this provision is. What should the mayor do for additional work if there is no private organization with a sanction? Which other organisations except the KNVB are covered? How is it prevented from spreading further and that private sanctions are all too easily placing an individual in the position of restricting his fundamental rights? Finally, the roots of this law and the task of the government. The government is there to serve justice and to protect society in such a way that good living together is actually possible. The church father Augustine once wrote about that justice that a good government is slow in punishing and easily forgiven. The punishment is there to protect state and society and aims to restore the rule of law. I already started my contribution with the question of how it is possible that a small number of vandals spoil the party or the enjoyment of living for many. On the part of the municipalities, it was stressed, in particular, that repression alone is not the solution to the problem. By doing so, the congregations show an Augustinian wisdom. However, this law seems to have its roots mainly in repressive thinking. But only with repression does a rule of law never solve its problems. If there is no awareness of standards or of civilisation towards police and other public service providers, we will not bring that back with this law. That has a lot more to do with the 'fat me' that our Prime Minister is right to have had enough of. I ask the Minister to take up the gauntlet on this very point, together with mayors, KNVB and supporters' associations. 'Cause if you don't look at the roots, you keep weeding. That is precisely why the question of when this law will be evaluated as a whole. The previous mid-term review referred to the English model. I would like this, but also other good foreign experiences, to be included in this evaluation. I would also like to receive a response from the Minister, because I am curious how he sees it. Mr President, I come to a conclusion. The Christian Union Group wants an effective approach to vandals and has therefore looked very favourably at this proposal. But even so, a number of important questions remain, concerning the legality, the usefulness of another new instrument and the role of the mayor and of private organisations. That is why I look forward to the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u16	Mrs Bikker, congratulations on your maiden speech. Like Mr Van Dijk, you have studied law in Utrecht and you have been a policy officer in the Lower House, so many similar things. I understand you've been said goodbye there with pain in your heart. You have been a city council member in Utrecht from 2006 to 2013. You have fought there, among other things, against abuses in prostitution and trafficking in women, and Sunday shopping. You were a very young group leader in Utrecht at 23 years of age and now again belongs to a group of young senators who took office two weeks ago. In an interview in October last year, you said that not age, but political vision, understanding of the law and knowledge of society are requirements for membership of the First Chamber. You have also indicated a certain passion for fundamental rights and a special affinity in order to be able to look at the feasibility of legislative proposals in relative tranquillity and reflection. You have argued in the past that legislation does not hinder people, but allows them to be there for each other. As an example, you mentioned the many work that is done from the churches and by volunteers for the elderly and severely ill. Another subject that has your particular interest is the effect of individualism on the classical freedom of religion. In a recent article, you concluded that when individual wishes within a community always take precedence, each collective falls apart. This paradoxically makes the freedom of choice of the individual impossible. You have also indicated that you hope that the new First Chamber will be there not only for the majority, but also for minorities. We wish you every success in your further contribution to the work in this Chamber. I shall suspend the sitting to allow colleagues to congratulate you on your maiden speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u17	I call Mr Ruers, who is not making his maiden speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u18	I remember mine from 1998. I was standing here in the middle, turning around, and then the whole room was in front of me. I didn't know what to do with 75 people coming to congratulate me all at once. That was a special experience; you don't forget that. Mr. Chairman. After these introductory remarks, I would like to congratulate the four colleagues who have made their maiden speech today. It is also nice that the Minister is here for the first time for a plenary debate. I look forward to the many debates that are to take place in the coming period. I'm sure they're interesting. The SP Group took note with interest of the amended proposal of law of 3 February and the response of 19 May. As a result, the Group of the Party of European Socialists wishes to make the following points. We have noted with approval that the Van Nispen motion was adopted in the Lower House. In this motion, it was considered that people who behave badly in many cases in their personal lives have problems with drinking, drugs and controlling aggression, and that therefore, as much as possible should be used to prevent future misconduct. In this motion, the government was asked to ensure that rioters can be imposed, in addition to punishment, aggression therapy or addiction treatment. We welcome this motion and trust that the government will do everything in its power to implement it. We would like to hear whether the Minister shares that commitment. We are less happy with the rejection in the Lower House of the Berndsen-Jansen/Oskam motion. It considered that football vandalism and serious nuisance are in many cases simply criminal behaviour, and that the relationship between civil and criminal stadium bans seems distorted. The authors of the motion asked the government to investigate the possibility of treating a larger proportion of football-related violence through criminal law. I will return to that rejected motion. The Minister, like his predecessor, has repeatedly stated that it is the intention of the bill to make possible, above all, new measures in the preventive sphere, rather than measures in the punitive sphere. In doing so, the Minister assumes, as he wrote, that the Mayor and the Public Prosecutor may impose preventive measures, and the criminal justice officer may impose heavier and longer penalties. Against this background, the SP Group wonders where, as a result of the new law, there is still the boundary between preventive measures taken by the mayor and sanctions in the form of restrictions on freedom imposed by the criminal justice system. This draft law gives the mayor new powers under Article 172a of the Municipal Law, in particular in the form of territorial decrees. In the opinion of the SP Group, these are hardly distinguishable in effect from the sanctions that the criminal court may impose under Article 38v of the Criminal Code. In addition, measures and sanctions can now be taken in three areas. As a result, there is a risk that there will be an unclear patchwork of measures in civil, administrative and criminal matters. We believe that this development will help to bring the role of the mayor closer to that of the criminal court. The members of the D66 Group have rightly already asked questions about this on the other side. In our view, this development is not desirable because it clouds the position of both actors, i.e. the mayor and the criminal court. The risk is that the role and tasks of the mayor in other areas will be affected. That seems undesirable to us. We note that the Minister does not share the concerns of the D66 Group in the reply. I quote the Minister: "We do not share the observation that the new powers of the mayor are punitive in nature. It is a question of powers aimed at preventing or ending disturbances of public policy. The powers have been taken into account, in conjunction with each other, and have been incorporated into the mayor's system of public order powers in accordance with the necessary conditions." In our view, this response from the Minister is not sufficient. It implicitly confirms that the concerns of the D66 Group, which are also ours, are justified. This issue is not primarily concerned with the issue of what the mayor's powers are aimed at. Nor is it a question of whether the powers, provided for by adequate framework conditions, are integrated into the mayor's system of powers in the field of public policy. No, the pressing question is whether the measures to be taken by the mayor can still be regarded as preventive measures and should not be seen as sanctions. If the latter is indeed the case, we believe that a limit has been wrongly crossed, namely between the role of the mayor who is taking preventive measures and the role of the mayor who has taken the seat of the criminal court. On the basis of the proposed new provisions of the Municipal Law, the mayor may, even more than before, impose a ban on persons who have distorted public policy. This while the criminal court may impose and impose the same measures under Article 38v of the Criminal Code. This can clearly be confused. We believe that this confusion should not be further developed, but should be removed. Moreover, under the law, the criminal law enforcement measures have been in place since 1 April 2012 to allow the special condition of an area ban under Article 38v Penal Code to enter into force directly in the event of a conviction for a criminal offence, despite the possibility of appeal against the judgment. It is difficult to deny that the measures imposed by the criminal court are of a specific punitive nature. If the mayor can take exactly the same measures under the municipal law, then according to our group, the measures taken by the mayor are also punitive. We would like to hear the Minister's views on this. It follows that in the 2013/2014 football season, 572 civil stadium bans were imposed by the BVOs and only 28 criminally prohibited. In the House of Representatives, Mr Van Nispen has already pointed this out on behalf of the SP Group. He said the balance was lost. He argued for more cases of serious criminal offences to be dealt with through criminal law. In this context, Mrs Berndsen of D66 pointed out that the KNVB's remark that stadium bans imposed through civil law are less effective than criminal sanctions. Mr Van Nispen pointed out that civil stadium bans are not really intended for serious offences, such as serious abuse, major destruction and drug trafficking. He argued that we wholeheartedly agree with him that criminal law should be looked at in this situation, which unfortunately often does not happen. The KNVB has also emphasized this in its latest position paper. It considers that the relationship between the parties concerned is lost. According to the KNVB, this is partly due to the fact that the football world attracted the criminal succession about ten years ago. Too much is now apparent, the KNVB concludes. He adds: "We are not sufficiently capable of banning the rioters from football using civil law." I think this is a very important conclusion: a party that has been involved in this matter for a very long time must see that its resources are failing. In view of these facts and this conclusion, we ask the Minister whether he shares the KNVB's opinion. If so, is he prepared to recognise that fighting football vandalism in the form of serious nuisance should be given more attention from criminal law? Against this background, is the Minister prepared to accept the request made in the aforementioned Lower House motion for a resolution? In conclusion, we have a few questions for the Minister. With regard to football vandalism, the situation in England has also been looked at. Others have said that as well, and in the documents it also comes back repeatedly. In response to questions from the Lower House, the Minister replied that he did not need the English system because, in his opinion, the Dutch legal system met. He called the Dutch system adequate and effective. He added that a system such as that in England, where a judicial test must be carried out first, reduces the speed with which the mayor can impose a measure. We wonder whether that reasoning is still valid if it is considered that the judge can also intervene quickly and declare a condition, as it were, enforceable in the case of stock. Especially now that the KNVB, after ten years of wisdom, is asking for a greater role in criminal law, it seems to us more than worth considering the English approach seriously. I refer to the article by Brouwer and Schilder, who pointed this out. We would like to hear whether the Minister is prepared to do so. Our second question concerns the power of the mayor to impose an area ban or injunction on rioters at European football matches abroad. Others have spoken about this too. The need for this was made clear by what has recently gone wrong in Rome. For us, it is hard to understand that a mayor can impose a territorial order or prohibition or reporting obligation for football matches played in the Netherlands, but not for matches abroad. We would like to hear from the Minister what legal obstacles there are to this. Is the Minister prepared, if there are any legal obstacles, to take the necessary steps to take this path? I also ask the Minister to respond explicitly to the very useful suggestion of Brouwer and Schilder in the NJB article that it should be possible, even in a competition abroad, to commit a potential rioter, for example in Rotterdam, to report on a particular day, which means that he cannot be in Rome. Finally, I come to the possibility and desirability of combating the source of vandalism. As is well known, alcohol consumption plays a major role in this. This has also been recognised by the VO's by far-reaching measures in the "what's in a name called "Jupiler League'. It seems to be a success. You would say that it is therefore obvious to extend it to the Honor Division. The Minister stated that this was discussed and he added: "However, the clubs and the KNVB did not choose to do so and it is up to them to decide."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u19	I'm sorry to be a little slow. I shall come back to the Brouwer and Schilder proposal, which Mr Ruers supports, if I understand correctly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u20	Well, I think that's a very interesting comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u21	It is therefore a mayor who makes it impossible or forbids a supporter, a resident of his own municipality, to attend a competition in Latvia, for example. He does so by means of a ban and a reporting obligation. At the same time, Mr Ruers says that the mayor comes into a much more punitive role and that the judge should do it, while the mayor imposes his far-reaching freedom-limiting measure, so that the resident of his municipality is no longer allowed to travel outside the municipality at that time. Doesn't Mr Ruers think that goes very far?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u22	Yeah, I think it goes a long way. I also understand the problem and I sympathise with Mr De Graaf's objection. To impose a reporting obligation is already a restriction of one's freedom. In general, it is a violation of one's freedom. A commandment and a ban are, too. I struggle with the question: where is the border? Where does the authority of the mayor reasonably end and where does that of the criminal court and the prosecution begin? You can judge that differently, but as far as reporting is concerned, you could say: it is on the side of the mayor. However, when it comes to a serious crime that is or is committed, it belongs on the notice of the prosecution or the criminal court. However, the middle is a vague area. I told you, there are now measures to be devised according to the law. These are identical measures the mayor can take, but they can also take the criminal court. I don't like that; you have to make a clear distinction.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u23	I was, of course, trying to check the consistency of your reasoning. I am also concerned about the fact that this mayor can give an indication to a resident of his own municipality or impose a duty of notification in respect of not being somewhere in his own municipality or being somewhere. The proposal that Mr Ruers supports goes much further. That is about not being anywhere outside the municipality and not even being anywhere outside the country, because at that very moment a duty of notification is imposed, with the aim of preventing someone from being on the other side of the world. Does Mr Ruers think that is the task of a mayor at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u24	Yes, if you accept that the mayor has this authority, you must also be consistent. Then you actually have to lift the reporting obligation in the Netherlands. You shouldn't split that reporting obligation in the Netherlands and abroad. If you do it, you have to do it for both situations. The basis for both situations must be the same, namely the prevention of serious facts and abominableness of someone who has proven to be equipped to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u25	Can you finish your speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u26	I still have two rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u27	I will conclude my question as well. I understand a little what Mr Ruers is looking for right now. You could say that the mayor should confine himself to his own territory.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u28	Yeah, it could be.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u29	Then it is also very difficult to give instructions across the borders of the country or across the borders of its own municipality.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u30	I understand your problem. I shall come back to that in the second instance. The response of the Minister I quoted is difficult to understand in the light of the circumstances outlined. Surely the Minister must be able to make it clear to the BVOs and KNVB that this rejection cannot be made by the "beer bar"? Is the Minister prepared to use his full weight for that purpose? We like to hear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u31	Mr. Chairman. First of all, on behalf of my group, I would like to congratulate Mr Van Dijk and Mr Bikker on their maiden speech. I would also like to mention that I look forward to the exchange of views with the new Minister for Security and Justice on the legislative proposal before us, under the confidence-building leadership of the President. In 2010, the Act measures against football vandalism and serious nuisance, the Law mbveo, entered into force. On the basis of that law, in the event of repeated disturbance to public policy and serious fear of further disturbance, the mayor may impose an area ban, a group ban and a reporting obligation. He can also impose a curfew on children under the age of 12. In similar situations, the Public Prosecutor may impose an area ban, a restraining order, a reporting obligation and an accompanying obligation on suspects. In the event of a conviction, the criminal court may impose a so-called freedom-limiting measure: an area ban, a restraining order or a reporting obligation. In 2012, the Wet mbveo was evaluated early. Following the bottlenecks identified in this evaluation, the government has decided to amend the law and to this end submit the present legislative proposal. In the present legislative proposal, the mayor is given the power to impose a ban on the territory, a ban on the group or a reporting obligation, even if someone has been involved once in serious disorder or if a private organisation, such as the KNVB or a football club, has imposed a penalty such as a ban on stadiums for behaviour that causes the mayor to fear that the person will disturb public order. In the draft law, the criminal court is given the power to impose a territorial order, e.g. house arrest. In addition, it is proposed to increase the duration of the freedom-limiting measures that the criminal court may impose from two to five years. The PvdA Group would like to hear from the Minister again very precisely why the government felt it was necessary to come forward with a proposal so soon to amend the Law mbveo. Why hasn't the Law mbveo had more time to prove itself in practice? The Council of State noted that the evaluation did not reveal a structural shortage of legal instruments to combat serious nuisance in public space. What, according to the Minister, is the need to amend the Law mbveo already now? The PvdA Group, like a number of other political groups, has asked the government in its preliminary investigation about the multitude of laws and instruments that are now in place to combat nuisance and about the need in practice for a comprehensive review of all public order powers. In the reply, the Minister referred to the oral examination of the bill of extension of search powers and the commitment of the then Minister to investigate the possibilities for improving the clarity and applicability of public order law. However, the oral hearing and the vote on that bill took place more than a year ago. Can the Minister explain why the promised investigation has not yet started and at what point? The proposed paragraph 2 of Article 172a of the Municipal Law provides that the mayor may give an order to a person who has been sanctioned by a private organisation for conduct which gives rise to serious fear that that person will disturb public order. This provision applies in particular to stadium bans of the KNVB or a football club, but is formulated in such a general way that it can also be applied to, for example, a ban on the area of an event imposed by the organiser of that event, or a ban on catering. The Council of State has pointed out that possible application based on unspecified private sanctions does not provide sufficient guarantees for the required restraint in the use of this figure. In the preliminary report, we asked the government to respond once again to this comment by the Council of State. In the reply, the Minister pointed out, inter alia in response to this request, that the decision of the mayor was determined not by the private sanction as such, but by the conduct giving rise to that sanction. The mere fact that a private sanction has been imposed does not mean that the mayor can automatically strengthen the private sanction without his own assessment with an administrative measure, according to the reply. It can only use its power if the conditions of Article 172a are met, and the government considers that this guarantees that a reference to the private sanction cannot be sufficient and that the power will not be exercised without restraint. However, the above raises the question of how the mayor can determine and assess the conduct underlying the private sanction. That is an important question for the PvdA Group. How is a private sanction prevented from being too easy and possibly unduly followed by an administrative measure? Since the assessment of the case determines the administrative measure to be imposed, the government considers that there is no need, as required in the original legislative proposal, for a list of private sanctions to be laid down by AMvB which could be followed by an administrative measure. In the reply, the Minister gave only one example of a behavior that is not expected to provide grounds for the mayor to impose a measure. No example is given of any behaviour which might justify imposing a measure on the mayor. The PvdA Group invites the Minister to give a generous number of examples of situations that are not expected to provide grounds for the mayor to impose an administrative measure and to do the same for situations that might provide such a basis. We await the Minister's answer to our questions with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u32	Mr. Chairman. Before I start my maiden speech I would like to congratulate Members Van Dijk, Bikker and later Lintmeijer on their maiden speech. It is with great pleasure that I may speak my maiden speech today. And yet with this minister, on the amendment of the Municipal Law and the Code of Criminal Law, who give mayors and legislators the tools to make the streets of the Netherlands a bit safer again. Because that is one of the goals that I have set myself, on behalf of the Party for Freedom, to make the Netherlands safer. One of the main tasks of the government, if not the most important, is to ensure the safety of citizens. In my view, our government scores a considerable incompetence in this area. The crime rate can and must be significantly reduced. Police, justice and, in this case, the mayors must be close to the perpetrators of crime and nuisance. Society's gotten tougher. Partly due to the change in population structure, mutual trust has decreased. There's confusion about what is and isn't allowed. Conflicts are more likely to get out of hand. Now it's time to pull back the reins. The board, the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office must be enabled to quickly grab wheeldrivers by the collar. Repression is the best form of prevention and the PVV Group is in favour of a firm lick-on-piece policy. We believe that the mostly soft government policy is disrupting society. My group therefore considers the proposed amendment to the Community Law and the Code of Criminal Law to strengthen measures to combat football vandalism and serious nuisance to be a step in the right direction. This so-called football law is being tightened up on a number of points. This is necessary because, contrary to what previous speakers have just said, incidents have increased. In the 2009/2010 football season there were 68 incidents, in the penultimate season 104, in 2012/2013 there were 56. I note an upward trend and I do not really understand why the previous speakers of some other parties saw a downward trend. What is commonly referred to as 'first offenders' now also falls within the scope of the proposed law and can now also be imposed on area bans, group bans and reporting, a development which our group welcomes. Nevertheless, we note that the Minister is somewhat affected by the papal and wet holding disease, a well-known ailment, which affects coalition members of the PvdA more often. Our group believes that the word'serious' should be deleted from Article 172a of the Municipal Act. We believe that this addition unnecessarily restricts the mayor in the imposition of an order. An effective approach to nuisance, however, is often the pre-stage of crime, which is essential to make our society safer. First offenders, just first offenders, must be taken directly and hard by the collar so that the preventive effect of the measure is maximised. In addition, we believe that the Minister does not miss an opportunity to amend Article 141 of the Criminal Code in such a way that the Public Prosecutor is no longer burdened with the current problems of evidence in the case of perpetrators of violence in a group. These problems of proof often lead to the fact that perpetrators of violence and destruction, who do so in a group, cannot be prosecuted for the more serious crimes or are acquitted. With the Helder amendment tabled by my party colleague on behalf of the PVV Group in the House of Representatives, anyone who is part of a group that commits public violence can be held responsible for the consequences. I would ask the Minister to look again at these two suggestions. The generic Article 184 of the Criminal Code governs the penalty for infringement of an order as referred to in Article 172a of the Municipal Law. This level of punishment is now set at a prison sentence of only three months. My question to the Minister is whether he finds this measure of punishment sufficiently dissuasive in the event of infringement of the sanction imposed in the new Article 172a of the Municipal Law, particularly for this particular group of troublemakers. Because what are we talking about today? Not about soccer supporters or many visitors to events. As far as our group is concerned, we are talking about troublemakers who, individually or in a group, disturb public order. In this respect, the nickname "football law" of this bill is misleading. It would be better to talk about the "evenement law." The troublemakers need to be dealt with very hard. The good are now suffering from the evil. That's gotta stop. Among other things, the KNVB believes that behind the notorious rioters a small group of directors pulls the strings. Those directors of misery need to be tracked down through detective capabilities. Can the Minister indicate if there is enough detective capacity available to track down these directors in misery? Should this not be the case, does the Minister see the possibility of extending the investigative capacity in such a way that the weeds can be weeded at the roots? I just mentioned the Code of Criminal Law. The judge imposed only 28 stadium bans in the 2013-2014 season. I ask the Minister, knowing that he is not concerned with the imposition of penalties, to ensure that perpetrators of nuisances and disruptors of public order are more often prosecuted through the Code of Criminal Law, even if the mayor has already taken his measures and given his orders through the Municipal Law. Let us not forget literally the preventive effect of the Code of Criminal Law. In conclusion, I would ask the Minister to speed up the regulation of the digital reporting obligation. As long as it is not settled, the mayors and judges will be reluctant to impose the reporting obligation. The law may have entered into force shortly, but the system of digital reporting is not yet in place. We're gonna give the mayors and the D.A. the teeth, but the mayors and the D.A. are gonna have to bite. It is common not to be interrupted during a maiden speech. Now that it is over for me, I hope that this Chamber will make frequent use of the interrupting microphone. I hope to contribute through the debate to the prosperity and security of our beautiful country.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u33	Thank you very much, Mr Markuszower. Congratulations on your maiden speech. You're the third lawyer to make his maiden speech today. We have the second series of maiden speeches today. This time it's four. If we keep up this pace, we may have had everyone before the summer. You were born in Tel Aviv in 1977. You spent your high school time in Amsterdam. Then you returned to Israel for a Talmud study at the Talmud High School in Israel and a study of international relations at The Hebrew University in Jerusalem. Afterwards you returned to the Netherlands, where you then studied private and international law at the University of Amsterdam. After your studies, you were a real estate manager at a private investment group in commercial real estate for several years. From September 2005 to December 2006 you were political advisor to the then VVD-Second MP Van Schijndel. This function aroused your interest in active politics and led to your move to the PVV. From 1 February 2007, you will be the director of VAT IT Netherlands, an international company that helps entrepreneurs to recover VAT paid abroad and to register VAT. Since 2010 you are also managing director of VAT IT Benelux, France and Monaco. In the First Chamber, you are chairman of the Permanent Committee on Immigration and Asylum / JHA Council and you will speak in particular on matters of security and justice. We have seen the beginning of this today. In an interview you said that you want to make sure the streets of the Netherlands are safe again. That is what we have heard today. This Chamber will follow your operations with great interest. We also wish you every success, of course. I shall now suspend the sitting to give the honourable Members the opportunity to congratulate you on your maiden speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u34	Mr Lintmeijer has the floor and you can already feel it coming: another maiden speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u35	Mr. Chairman. I feel a little like the tenth guy at today's debutante ball. There are many congratulations to a new President, a new Vice-President, at least a temporary new Vice-President, a new Minister in the Chamber and many more first speakers. On behalf of my group, of course, I am also happy to do so. A modified football law, relatively shortly after the entry into force of the previous one in 2010, based on an evaluation that took place after a year and a half. A football law that once again extends the powers of mayors to tackle serious nuisances. That allows the mayor to ratify a stadium ban of ADO Den Haag or the KNVB administratively, even with someone who for the first time goes wrong. In addition, it considerably increases the duration of an area ban. Not only at football, but also at the fair or at the celebration of old and new. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance still has the necessary questions about this bill. They are part of a practical nature, but also of a fundamental nature about the course of justice and the protection of civil rights in the event of a serious act of deprivation of liberty. Let me say first of all that my group is also horrified by hooliganism about football and riots and destruction on New Year's Eve or at other events. Like you, we still have the images of rioting supporters and destroyed Italian heritage in Rome on the retina. We do not have a good word for that. The question for my group is what fundamental and practical conditions the fight against disturbances at football stadiums, fairgrounds and old and new must satisfy in order to link effective action with the guarantees required by our rule of law. We have doubts as to whether this bill can pass that test. The current football law entered into force on 1 September 2010. A year and a half later, the evaluation showed that VNG and KNVB in particular needed tightening up. They are now being presented to us. For the sake of clarity, I would like to mention the main points in the content of this proposal, which have already been mentioned by previous speakers. However, I would like to draw attention to the report in which the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance expressed its concern about the various amendments. Legal status, proportionality and the accumulation of powers are important concerns. The question arises as to how the extension of powers relates to Article 5 of the European Convention on Human Rights, which regulates how to deal with the freedoms of people who have not yet been convicted by the criminal court. The European Court of Human Rights imposes strict requirements on this. For example, such a restriction of freedom must be strictly necessary and proportionate and access to justice must be guaranteed. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance takes the view that deprivation of liberty and restrictions on the freedom of movement of people should be imposed primarily by the criminal justice system and by safeguards. Only in exceptional cases, where public policy is seriously at stake and for short periods of time, administrative intervention may replace judicial deprivation of liberty. By constantly extending these powers, those administrative interventions, and limiting the degree of freedom to go and stand where you want, we are taking a path that is getting further and further away from that primary starting point. This will become all the more difficult if sanctions by a private party such as the KNVB or perhaps the fairground organisation will form the basis for those restrictions. It may sometimes seem very practical, but my group believes that the legal danger of violating people's freedom of movement without too much convincing evidence is worth careful consideration. For GroenLinks, this is a matter of principle. My group believes that criminal law should be applied to restricting people's freedom of movement, because of the guarantees they need. In addition, only the judge, and especially the criminal court, or the judge-supervisor, should be able to decide on this. For example, the separation of powers in our legal system is regulated, and with good reason. As far as we are concerned, this rightful role can only be taken over by the mayor's executive power to a very limited extent. Major arguments and considerations are needed for any retraction of this. With Article 5 of the ECHR in hand, we do not find sufficient reflections of the government's considerations on this issue in the legislative proposal. In particular, we ask the Minister to provide a fundamental basis for his idea of sanctioning the sanctions imposed by private parties, such as the KNVB. That's a novum to my knowledge. The scope does not seem to be limited to the KNVB either, so this possibility could take a huge flight. Does the Minister agree with the position of GroenLinks that extreme restraint is required in imposing restrictions on movement by others than the judge? What criteria exactly does the Minister use in his assessment that a mayor could also exercise this power? And why didn't he at least give the D.A. a solid position in the law? How does the Minister feel about the mayor becoming a contact point for all kinds of agencies that want to ban people with very different behaviours from their surroundings? For example, what's he doing, a random item, with the neighborhood foundation that wants to ward off troublesome and obnoxious guys from the public-funded community center that's just in favour of doing something with those guys? Can the community center as a legal entity also ask the mayor to enforce a sanction with a mayor's warrant, so that the community center locks up every Friday night for those guys? It may be an exaggerated example, but I will mention it anyway, because I would like to hear from the Minister where he would lay the border and whether that limit should not be made more explicit in the law. This bill as the next step in the accumulation of public order and security powers with the mayor raises the question of the transparency of administrative, criminal action. And above all: how do you guarantee an adequate level of legal protection? Leiden professor Barkhuysen has researched this and advises to intensify the involvement of the judge in administrative and criminal matters, ranging from prior judicial approval of the use of administrative powers to an ex post substantive judicial test. To sum up, Professor Barkhuysen, this judicial test should be aligned with the infringement of the fundamental rights of those concerned by public action. In addition, it can be inferred from several available court rulings that the imposition of a mayor's order must be properly motivated. Transparency and motivation of the decision to impose a mayor's order are therefore crucial. GroenLinks wonders whether the possibility to join private law sanctions of third parties will be able to pass this test in particular. Groningen professor Brouwer and VU professor Schilder, already mentioned earlier, find this in the Dutch Lawyers' magazine "a rather fundamental step that the government is taking here, which also poses the necessary danger." They have studied what is called the easy application of the stadium ban by the KNVB. This does not improve transparency and confidence in a sanctioning imposition supported by facts. I'd like a response from the Minister. Public trading is based on the idea of intervention if there is really no other way, subsidiarity, and interventions in proportion to the actual fact, proportionality. For GroenLinks, there is still no clear evidence that existing government powers are insufficient. What exactly are the arguments why we need these additional powers, so what goes wrong if this bill is not adopted? In addition, we also particularly ask how this bill relates to Article 5 of the ECHR, and in particular to the requirement of public awareness. The Minister's previous response, which in principle can deliver a mayor's order in any situation, does not reassure us, but calls on GroenLinks to consider that this competence is not sufficiently limited. As a citizen, you cannot always provide for the possible application of a mayor's order. This is at odds with the constitutional principles of the Dutch administration of justice. We call on the Minister to come up with further demands to avoid arbitrary application of the football law. What are the criteria for application, and is he prepared to lay them down in lower regulation? The Council of State also notes that the mayor's instruments are becoming very extensive and asks whether it is not time for a comprehensive review of all public order powers. The Minister states that an investigation is about to begin. GroenLinks welcomes this research but finds the order strange. The government recognises the need for an integral balance, but continues to build up these powers. We therefore propose to park this bill until the results of the investigation are known. In that case, an integral balance can be made between the proportionality of the accumulation of powers in relation to their effectiveness and the state of law. There is no urgency to implement this bill now. After all, in the explanatory statement, the cabinet acknowledges, in response to questions from the VVD Group, that, fortunately, there has been no increase in serious incidents in recent years. That'll give you a little relief. I'd like a response from the Minister. We would also like to know from the Minister what his research looks like, what questions he wants to ask to find out exactly and what he expects from the results. My group would like to point out that in the proposed investigation we also want to explicitly include the functioning of the city council in its controlling role in relation to the stacking of mayor powers. I would also like a response from the Minister. I'm coming to an end. We have a lot of questions about the justification and urgency of this bill, but of course we await with interest the Minister's answers to our questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u36	Mr. Lintmeijer. I would also like to congratulate you on your maiden speech. Allow me to outline some of your background as well. You haven't studied law, but socio-cultural sciences.That's a bit of a relief, but then again in Utrecht. After your graduation in 1981, you were appointed Head of Information for the Department of Spatial Planning and Housing of the Municipality of Utrecht. From 1989 to 1990 you were also acting director of urban renewal. Afterwards you held several leading positions in the field of communication with the Dutch Railways, Berenschot and the municipality of Amersfoort. From 2000 to 2008 you were co-owner of the communication agency Maatschap voor Communicatie. From here you performed interim management positions at the Dutch Public Opera and the Dutch Opera. Since 2008 you have been an independent organisation and communication consultant and strategist, especially in the public sector. You interrupted this function from April 2010 until May 2014 for fulfilling the aldermanship in the municipality of Utrecht. In this position you were in charge of the portfolios of traffic, culture, heritage, regional affairs, international affairs and the districts of Northwest and South. During these years, the city experienced major developments, such as the construction of music stage Tivoli Vredenburg and the expansion of the Utrecht ring road. The renovation of Utrecht Centraal station also required far-reaching measures. We all got the latter. Last year, on behalf of the municipality, you received a prize for building what is to be the world's largest bicycle storage facility. Since May 2014, you have taken up your activities as an independent consultant again. Still, you remain attached to your "city" and supported Utrecht University last year in the search for crowdfunding for cultural research and projects. Here in the First Chamber you are a member of the Committee for the Interior and the High Colleges of State / General Affairs and House of the King, nicknamed Commission 1, the Committee for Foreign Affairs, Defence and Development Cooperation and the Committee for Social Affairs and Employment. With your social and political experience, you will undoubtedly make an interesting further contribution to the work of our Chamber. We wish you every success in doing so. I shall now suspend the sitting to allow colleagues to congratulate you on your maiden speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u37	Mr. Chairman. It is a great pleasure to be able to say my maiden speech in your midst today. First of all, I would like to thank all the Members and also you, Mr President, for the kind words that have been said in my direction. I should also like to congratulate the four Members who have spoken their maiden speech today: Mr Van Dijk, Mrs Bikker, Mr Markuszower and Mr Lintmeijer. I've enjoyed their speeches and know how delightful it is that you can't be interrupted if you make your first speech. I suppose that goes for a minister, too. Because I know that people besides functioning as part of this Chamber generally still have their own job, I assume that much of the work that should lead to the assessment of laws and proposals takes place at night. Then it's often dark. I have been looking for an answer to the question of how to give the maiden speakers something to help them, and that is why I brought a 'Ministerial Security and Justice' keychain for all four of them. This one has Lady Justitia in glass, but also a light, so that you can read pieces at night with this keychain. I hope that I have expressed my satisfaction with these four new Members in an appropriate manner and I am delighted to be able to work closely with them in the future. It's very special for me to be standing here. As some of you know, I was a board member of the Parliamentary History Foundation not too long ago. From that position and from my interest, I feel very much that I am now at the heart of the parliamentary history of our country, even before there was an official parliament. I will not go into the history of this Chamber, because you know it better than I do. You can believe to me that I find it very special to be able to speak here at the heart of the beginning of our parliamentary system. I am also very pleased with the symbolism of this room. The world peoples with which the Republic was trading at the time, look in here. One of these hatches is the Italians. If there is one population watching this bill, it is the Italians because of the points that some Members have already raised. I do not know whether I will be able to satisfy them in the course of my speech. In the middle above the Children of State look down and for them this bill is also written. The point is that they realise that there is no point in misbehaving during and around football matches and other events to which this bill refers. If they do, and if their behavior is serious enough, the criminal will act to punish them. The mayor will play a preventive role in preventing this behaviour for the future. The last point I have to confess is that I feel quite handicapped in relation to my predecessor. My predecessor was with soul and salvation involved in this bill in his fondness for the soccer game. I must confess that this love was not part of the mandate and job description of the Minister of Security and Justice. If there are any interruptions and questions about football itself, I will have to remain guilty of the answers. My predecessor will follow this debate with great interest and be particularly interested in the outcome. I should like to say that he hopes that the decision on this bill can be taken next week, if possible, so that the law can be implemented for the new football season. I like to put his heart cry in your midst. It seems to me to be a good idea to address the excellent questions that have been put. Some of them are of a principle and others are of a practical nature. I will do that on the basis of six themes. 1. The need for the law, the moment why now? The scope of the law. 2. The point of the first offenders. 3. The role of this law in competitions is something that the Italians come back around the corner. 4. The strengthening of the stadium ban of the KNVB or the football club. 5. Coherence between private, administrative and criminal approaches to football vandalism. 6. The amendment of Article 38v of the Code of Criminal Law. Finally, I have a brief moment for three general questions. The group we are talking about today is the group of football vandals. This is a relatively small group of mainly men, but it certainly involves women. That small group is defining in many of our cities, not only around paid football, but also around amateur football. These people cause a huge nuisance, danger to the environment, damage and a lot of misery. The aim of this legislation is to tighten up the law that we already had, so that the approach to this form of vandalism can be further strengthened. The need for this arises from experience in practice. You have all seen the monitoring report of the WODC, which was quickly produced from signals from the practice. Of course, many of you know that mayors have repeatedly called for the opportunities they have and with which they have gained a lot of experience in recent times, so that they are even better suited to their task; that is, of course, primarily the responsibility for public order in their municipalities. Mayors are called upon to do so, but in all cases they do not have the tools to fulfil that claim. This law seeks to resolve this gap in terms of football vandalism and similar behaviour. We have taken the signals from practice seriously and they have led to this bill. This allows me to address directly the questions that have been asked as to why this bill is necessary; why is this proposal coming now and what is the scope of the bill? I shall now turn to the questions put by Mrs Bikker, Mrs Beuving and Mr De Graaf. They asked why an amendment of the law is already taking place, while the old law has not been in office for very long. The answer to that is as follows. In 2010 the law was introduced, but not everything that is now known was known. A number of investigations and monitoring have been carried out since the entry into force of the current provisions and, as I said in my introduction, more and more signals have come from mayors that the legal powers they had been given did not go far enough in practice. This interplay showed that there were shortcomings. These deficiencies would not resolve over time. After all, it is really a question of what powers are needed to be able to act effectively, not because more experience is needed with the existing powers, but above all because the scope of the powers has proved to be tighter. That is why we have found reason to come up with this proposal. That was fast, but that was of course all reason. Many of you can remember the riots around the Feyenoord stadium, some of which were absolutely criminal in nature. They've been prosecuted as far as they go. Many of you have asked: why not in criminal law? The nature of these disturbances and the environment in which they occur do not in all cases make criminal evidence very easy. The photos of the hooligans in question have been shown, but it is extremely difficult to prosecute the people who are guilty of these behaviours. Moreover, criminal prosecution leads to a prison sentence of a few weeks or a few months and that does not say anything about what happens in the longer term. It is the intention of this law that, from the point of view of prevention and the responsibility of the mayor, it should be possible to take preventive action, even for a longer period. That is why this law is now being set up. These experiences were not yet available in 2010. Mr De Graaf asked whether I could go into more detail about the objective circumstances that make the legislative proposal necessary. Mr Lintmeijer asked why these powers are needed and why the existing or less far-reaching measures cannot be enough. The current law has existed since September 2010. Soon there were signals from mayors that the law was difficult to apply, especially in the case of football nuisance itself. The law has been monitored by the Security and Justice Inspectorate for two years from the beginning. The inspection reports also showed that there were bottlenecks in the application of the law. After a few serious riots around football matches in 2011, it has been decided to evaluate the law early. The evaluation showed that the mayor has sufficient powers to combat the nuisance, but in particular the possibilities for dealing with football vandals were too limited. This legislative proposal provides for the extension of the possibilities, but not entirely new powers. I think this is very important: we are not talking about completely new powers, but about extending existing powers. Against Mr Lintmeijer, I note that it is mainly about creating opportunities, which mayors always have to fill in proportionally. Maybe it's a good thing I say that for the Acts here. It is not the case that, if there is a possibility of imposing a commandment or a ban for a given period, the ceiling should always be applied. I don't think the judge will go along with that in the end. It is important that mayors, in the exercise of their responsibility for public policy, in particular the preventive function, always deal with their powers in a proportionate manner within the possibilities they have.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u38	I'm glad the Minister says so. Is it not wise to define any of this proportionality in the legislation more clearly than is currently the case? This also clarifies which frameworks the mayor can or cannot maintain in specific cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u39	I understand Mr Lintmeijer's question, but of course it is very difficult, because how do you describe proportionality? We have not done so under any law, for the simple reason that we do not want to restrict the freedom of the judge to judge whether or not something is proportionate. Suppose we write down, I wouldn't know how that legislation should be applied in practice, that this or that isn't pro-promotional in those circumstances, whereas the judge thinks it is. So how do we deal with that? The idea behind this law is: we make things possible. Mayors handle their powers wisely. Where that doesn't go well, the judge will whistle them back. But I say here for the Acts that this does not, of course, mean that all powers must be exercised as much as possible immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u40	Isn't that just where the shoe is a little bit wringing in this bill? The criminal court is used to dealing with this kind of proportionality in its application of criminal law, because it is its role and role. The executive, the mayor, is much more handicapped to properly fill that out. As far as we are concerned, there is also the complexity of the balance that we place on the mayor as an executive rather than a judiciary.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u41	It's possible. Of course, Mr Lintmeijer is right: a mayor can choose whether he prefers to do it himself or through the criminal justice system. Then he can report it on behalf of the municipality or have conversations in the local triangle with the state's attorney's office. I do know that when you act as mayor quickly and effectively, in many cases you do not wait for the criminal court. There will then have to be a criminal investigation first. The case must be brought and the whole criminal proceedings must be followed. The next game might have been played by now. Precisely because it is also about prevention, I think mayors should have that competence. They have them, too, and they'd like to have them. Let me put this first: it is not that I, as Minister of Security and Justice, and my predecessor in office, have decided that mayors want this. Mayors want it for themselves. They themselves ask for it, because they see very well, in practice, what powers they need to effectively maintain public order in their municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u42	Also for the Acts: the minister was just talking about the mayor who can choose whether to apply criminal law or administrative law in his own capacity. Actually, I'd like to nuance that. It shouldn't be the mayor who decides whether criminal law applies, it should be the Public Prosecutor's Office. It shouldn't be the case that the mayor thinks to himself: what do I find most convenient? You know what, I'm bypassing criminal law and now I'm using my special powers. I think it's a little more nuanced than that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u43	As always, Mr De Graaf is right on this point. I would like to point out 'at this point', because it might well be that there will be another point in a moment where I will have to say the opposite. It is an independent power of the Public Prosecutor's Office to prosecute, although the declaration may come from the mayor's side. In that sense, the mayor can make his own choice. There may also be a declaration from the football club or from a person concerned. It can be done in all cases. At the same time, we have laid down in the legislation that, at the time the public prosecutor becomes active, the mayor will not apply his powers. So one does rule out the other. The other not the one, by the way. That makes sense, because the mayor's activities and decisions are not punitive, but those of the criminal court. If the mayor takes up his authority with regard to prevention, the criminal court may still consider that the same behaviour that led the mayor to take a stand should be punished from the social point of view. That's what'll happen when the evidence comes out. That nuance is certainly appropriate for the Acts. Mr De Graaf asked about the need for the law. I believe that the extension of the mayor's power to take action in the first offenders is very important. I am now looking again at the Children of State at the top of this room. I think children in particular know that if an unwanted behavior goes unpunished, often attempts are made to do that behavior again. That is also what we have come up against with this bill. We saw that people repeatedly crossed the line, when you could have taken action from the very first moment. That is precisely why that possibility is being created. At the same time, the measures may be imposed for a longer period. This creates the possibility to keep someone away from the stadium for several games. What is also very special is that you can come to a decision on behalf of other mayors, so that you can cover both the out and home game. I know that Mr De Graaf has asked questions about this and I will come to that. Mr De Graaf asked why the law also applies to other forms of nuisance. In general, I should like to say that the purpose of causing nuisance does not matter. Whether you cause trouble around a soccer game or, I say with a small wink, around a local table tennis tournament that last is not very common but it could technically make no difference for the application of the law. I also just heard a reference to former MP Dijkhoff. Is it then true that this law could apply to returning jihad fighters? Not in general, unless the returning jihad warrior behaves exactly like a football hooligan. Then there's really no difference. It's not about why you're causing trouble and endangering public order. If you do this as provided for in this law, the mayor can act preventively and at the same time the criminal court can act punitively.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u44	I understand that, of course, but the particular point is that the argument for this enlargement is derived only from the evaluation of football vandalism and the way in which the mayors fight it. So, from the fight against football vandalism, there has been a need to tighten up and extend the law. But that applies not only to footfall vandalism, but to any nuisance in the neighborhood. This raises the question: is enlargement necessary for all these other forms of nuisances? These proposals ban land use, reporting obligations..... have to do with the need to ban hooligans from entering the stadium or going to an away game. There's something different about table tennis. I hope, moreover, that the Minister knows how to play table tennis, because apparently football is not.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u45	Nor table tennis, I must confess to my shame. That's what I'm gonna say for the Acts. But, of course, it's right. As far as I know, no research has been done on all other forms of nuisance, but that can also be due to my relative novelty on this subject. I would also point out that it does not matter to the citizens who are confronted with it. For the cop who gets kicked with stones and street furniture it really doesn't matter whether this is around a football game or around any other activity. In my own municipality of Haarlem, where I was born and raised, you have the Luilak market and the misery surrounding it, which is sometimes great. Furthermore, there are of course examples like old and new. This will also be the subject of the law, because the behaviours are ultimately decisive. But that has been investigated in football vandalism, because that is of course a recurring theme in almost all Dutch municipalities. Since the necessity has already been established there alone, there is no objection to applying it in other cases of nuisance where this is necessary, I would say.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u46	We agree that the nuisance, if it is of the same nature, is equally serious and must be combated. In fact, criminal law is very suitable for this. Administrative measures, which are the subject of this bill, are mainly aimed at tackling the football supporter, to ensure that he is not able to go to next games. Hence the bans on territory, stadium bans and reporting obligations. This may be applicable once or twice in old and new, then next year it may not be in a particular area between ten o'clock in the evening and two o'clock in the night. But these powers do not really apply to many other nuisance situations, because you cannot actually apply them accordingly. That's what I pointed out. That may not be a reason to stop the law, but I have to say that the argument for tightening up is only due to one specific form of nuisance and one specific form of reaction to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u47	Yes and no. Some of these provisions apply specifically to football nuisances. But if I look at the possibility of imposing a two-year ban on people, it can also be in a number of other areas. That reduces the administrative pressure for the mayor and makes it a little easier to say: yes, but I'll make sure you can't attend similar events for two years. That can be anything: King's Day, old and new and so on. If anyone disagrees with that, he or she will open the corridor to the board judge to have that checked. I can imagine that very well. I believe that experience will be gained at some point in time. But the possibilities that exist may apply to behavior other than football violence and in some cases be very useful. In other cases, therefore, these possibilities will not apply.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u48	One more time, Mr De Graaf, to conclude this point. Then I'll come to Mrs. Van Bijsterveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u49	What the minister just said intrigued me. He said that such a two-year ban could also be imposed on all other events, such as King's Day and old and new. That seems to me to be a bit harsh, because it must be related to the original fact against which action is being taken. If that's football, it can't be King's Day.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u50	That's right, and that's not what I mean at all. I meant to say that it may also be King's Day and riots that have arisen there, so that you forbid someone from attending the next King's Day. That fits into a legal framework. But it can't be that way again for the Acts that you say: you can't be on King's Day because you've been involved in a football riot. That is not obvious, I agree with Mr De Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u51	Now, Mrs. Van Bijsterveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u52	I have the feeling that we are stuck here a little bit in examples that may not have been quite chosen, such as table tennis. But I remember a few years ago, there was this huge beach party that got out of hand. I have looked at other situations in the preparation of this bill. That seems to me to be an example of which you can say: then those powers can be applied. In that case, criminal law proved difficult to apply, due to evidence problems. You can say in such a situation that the cause of the unrest doesn't matter very much, when it comes to the same outer appearances. But I do see the fact that, whatever the reason, the mayor and the public prosecutor must see in each case whether the criteria have been met. Of course, it is not possible for another event to be subject to different, lower criteria. It is still a matter of the same seriousness. If we agree, there is not such a big problem as far as we are concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u53	I fully agree with Mrs Van Bijsterveld's analysis and conclusions. Questions have been asked about the mayor's toolbox. There are two lines to taste in this Chamber. One line asks whether the mayor doesn't actually have too many powers and whether he or she can handle it all. The other line is concerned about whether the Netherlands will actually be safer. Shouldn't the mayor be able to do more? I have even heard from the PVV Group a plea for further measures, which I shall go into. My conviction is that the mayors themselves have asked for this power. They do this because they find in practice that they need these powers, looking at the possibilities they had under the old law and the gaps they have experienced with its implementation. I think that makes it clear that the mayor can handle it, too. It is up to the mayor himself to make a choice from the palette of possibilities that he or she gets with this law. Proportionality will be an essential part of this. It is not a question of tightening up or changing the position of the mayor, not even when it comes to the role of the mayor, but merely of strengthening the current powers. It has been established in practice that this is necessary, useful and desirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u54	I hear the minister say he thinks the mayor can handle it. At the same time, there is a clear report from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in which a large part of the mayors indicate that they do not need to become some kind of supersheriff. They indicate the need for ever more powers in the toolbox precisely as not desirable. I would like a little more reflection from the Minister than 'there are two camps in this Chamber'. I ask the Minister to comment on what the mayors say on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u55	I think Mrs Bikker is referring to the memo "Major and Magistrate," which I have, of course, taken note of. It is not just about football vandalism, but also about a number of other powers that mayors have, powers that are entirely one-on-one from the responsibility for public order. I find it difficult to reflect on this now, because that debate must be conducted with the BZK colleague. But this also applies: it must not, it can. If a mayor himself thinks that he should wait for the criminal law approach, if it applies, he is of course free to do so. If you look at the situations for which this law is intended, as mayor, if you are responsible for public order and security in football violence, but also in other forms of violence, you should not sit back.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u56	The mayors will report that. I have not read all about this subject, but I have read the Acts. From 2010 onwards, many here also express the concern that it is being piled up more and more. The Minister now says that this belongs to the competence of his colleague from BZK. I understand that, but we are dealing with this minister now. How does he, as he will come up with further thoughts about the mayor's office in the autumn, weigh up this point? Why didn't we choose to say: now that we have heard these signals several times, we need a pass in place?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u57	Because I think that, in the interests of public order and security, it would be inappropriate at the moment. If we look at what mayors have established since 2010, namely that it is necessary to extend the powers, then you cannot say: because we are not sure about the development of the mayor's office in the future, let us leave this possibility now. I have every confidence that this bill is really necessary. If we look around, we can see that the soccer violence is still continuing. It may get a little less, but it still has very serious forms and it causes huge damage. Furthermore, we know that prevention is possible and works in this area, but then you must have the means to do so. That is why I do not think that we should wait for this debate, particularly because even in a future discussion about the position of the mayor, there will never be any discussion about whether or not he is responsible for public policy. You may wonder if he may have to be responsible for a lot of other things in some Members, thinking about a different form of appointment of the mayor, and that certainly seems interesting for a debate with my colleague from BZK, but that does not change the fact that, as long as we establish that the mayor is responsible for public order, we must ensure that the toolbox in the "public order" box, which I am talking about, contains all the instruments that the mayor needs to do his work effectively. That is the purpose of this law. This is without prejudice to the fact that a number of questions concerning the application of Article 5 of the ECHR and the ECHR as such have rightly been raised in relation to what is governed by this law. It should be made clear that the imposition by the mayor of an area ban is not a matter of deprivation of liberty, as referred to in the ECHR, but of restriction of freedom. This means that the area ban should therefore not be assessed under Article 5 of the ECHR but under Article 2 of the Fourth ECHR Protocol, which regulates the freedom of movement. Thus, it is regulated at a different level and with a different level of protection than that Article 5. However, the ban certainly infringes the right of free movement. More generally, a territorial order or ban is, of course, an infringement of privacy, as protected by Article 8 of the ECHR. In this respect, it is stipulated that an infringement of one of these articles may be justified if the infringement is provided for by law and is necessary in democratic society in connection with, inter alia, public policy, security and the prevention of criminal offences. That's exactly what this is about. Moreover, it follows from the ECHR that the area ban must be sufficiently foreseeable and must contain procedural guarantees. The area ban as presented today meets these requirements because the offender may know that if he disturbs public order around a football stadium, he runs a risk of a land ban and because administrative law guarantees opposition and appeal. Mrs Bikker, Mr Van Dijk and Mr De Graaf have asked how I define'serious disturbances'. Mrs Beuving added: can the Minister give a kaleidoscope of behaviour covered by that term, so what is covered by "serious disturbance"? A harsh definition of "serious disturbance" is not to my regret to give. A combination of administrative judgment and case law does give an idea. Throwing stones at the police, I already gave that example, is an obvious example. That is also a criminal offence, by the way. In that case, the Public Prosecutor will act wherever possible. In such cases, administrative measures should be taken to avoid repetition of such behaviour. If Mrs Beuving asks for more examples, I say this: it is very complicated to give them here from my point of view. It is precisely in the case of conduct that the nature of the conduct, the circumstances of the case, the age of the person concerned and the reason why the person concerned behaved in this way. I do not think it is possible to give a complete and exhaustive overview in the Acts. I will not try to do so. Then the question arises: could it have been defined differently? Could you have defined differently and more exhaustively what is a serious disturbance? That is not really possible either, because'serious disturbance' is defined in case law and because there is agreement in the ordinary language very quickly on what is and what is not covered by it. In general, this kind of fact can also be substantiated by means of camera images.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u58	I agree with the Minister that it is not only not possible but that it is not necessary. I recall a statement from Professor Belinfante. He once said: no one knows what public order is, but that does not prevent us from maintaining it. We've been doing that for a lot of years now, and we've been doing it quite successfully. I am also saying this on behalf of a group consisting of approximately half of mayors. In this respect, I'm getting more and more uncomfortable. I don't think it's necessary either. The mayor is operating in a triangle. He is politically controlled by the college but also by the council. At the same time, he is under the control of the administrative judge. The possibility of applying for administrative redress is used exuberantly. The administrative judge is also not some kind of B-category judge after the criminal court. It's a full-time, full-fledged judge in a full-fledged branch of law. All in all, I have the impression that things are going pretty well. The mayor is also the one who is "attacked" from two sides. This is done on the one hand by the need to intervene. The people who suffer damage, who suffer from things, turn to the mayor and say, "Do something for us, protect something from us." On the other hand, this is done by the vandals, which he must, in a dignified and legally correct manner, point to their behaviour and which he must try to get on the right track. I therefore agree with the Minister when he says that it is not possible, but I would add that it is not necessary, as far as I am concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u59	Several former mayors may also disagree on this, I think. I would like to return to what the Minister just said about how to determine whether it is "serious" public disorder or "ordinary" public disorder. He picked up a few criteria that I'm not comfortable with anyway. He mentioned the age of the disrupter and the motives of the disrupter. I think that's really wrong. A disturbance of public order is serious or not serious. That has nothing to do with the motives of the one who disturbs. It has to do with the actual behavior and the effect of that de facto behavior on public space, on bystanders and so on. I would like to be explained in more detail what the Minister meant by that. Here's another question. The Minister says he cannot distinguish between what is serious and what is not serious. Colleagues with mayor's experience say: that is not really relevant either, because it is simply disorder of law and order, which is sometimes serious and sometimes not serious. Is it not weird that we link a far-reaching competence to the fact that it is serious and therefore not to the fact that it is not serious? Then, for example, the first offender should not be allowed to comply with that competence. It is very strange that both the Minister and parts of the Chamber cannot make that distinction or do not want to make it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u60	I'm gonna go into that last point first. Mr Markuszower of the PVV Group has requested that this be removed "seriously." But then we come into a discussion about the limits of proportionality. You can't a priori link a mayor's rather violent authority to something that is "a disturbance" of public order. I know disturbances of public order, and we can all come up with examples of what you say: this is very annoying, but not something to use a mayor's authority as we now provide for in this law. I am committed to maintaining the word "serious." I will say the same to Mr Markuszower. The next question is: do we have an idea of what is serious and what is not serious? Does it depend on age? No, because the behavior itself is decisive. I meant by that point of age the following. I thought I said it clearly, but maybe I didn't say it right. The question that then arises is what you then take for action on the basis of that serious disturbance. This depends on the age, the purpose, the circumstances of the case and the like. That's how the element comes into play. I would like to say a few words about the use of the word "disruption." I once tried before a judge to explain that a very normal Dutch term had to be understood differently because lawyers understand terms differently from the normal population. Then the President of the Court said: if we walk out now and ask ten people if they understand that one word exactly as you do, Mr Van der Steur, you are right. Then I thought we shouldn't do that. For "serious disturbance," that's okay. I think there is a communist opinio in society about what is a serious disturbance. But even so, as mayor, you have to consider very carefully whether the power you have been given to do so can also be applied proportionally.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u61	I am very keen that the Minister, now or in the second term, should make an attempt to express that communist opinio, to say what is meant by'serious public disorder'. That's what we need. When it comes to the application of far-reaching powers, it is necessary for the courts to determine what the legislator means by it. It would also help the mayors. Otherwise, we're talking about some kind of sticky clause. I'd have a real problem with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u62	For the record, I am also absolutely interested in what the Minister means by'serious disorder'. Only, my question didn't take that directly. In order to prevent the question I have asked from being snowed under, I would like to highlight it here. My question was about the possibility that the mayor might reinforce a sanction imposed by a private organisation by an administrative measure. The criterion of the law then is whether the conduct that gave rise to that private sanction gives rise to the mayor's grave fear that that person will disturb public order. I would like to see examples of this criterion, in particular of the type of behaviour which is well or less conceivable that an administrative sanction could also be imposed after the private sanction. So I would like examples, both of behaviour where that is less plausible and of behaviour where that is more plausible. Initially, the bill provided for an AMvB to include a list of such situations. It was removed from the bill. That is all the more reason to hear a generous number of examples from the Minister. That's what I asked for.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u63	As much as I would like to meet Mrs Beuving, here too, the answer is that this is not actually feasible. The simple reason for this is that there are as many different behaviors as possible. If you give a kaleidoscope of that, you are either not fully.... that will by definition be so... or you do not answer the question that Mrs Beuving asked. By the way, in this particular case, I would find it undesirable if the decision of a private party one-on-one, so to speak, would result in a sanction or an activity of the mayor. I'll be right back on the private party, but this can't be like this. The mayor always has his own authority. He must follow his own criteria and make his own assessment. It cannot be that the fact that a football club decides to impose a stadium ban immediately leads to a similar ban on the part of the mayor.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u64	One more time, Mrs. Beuving.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u65	Yes, thank you, Mr. Chairman. I do not ask the Minister to give a final definition of the behaviour which could lead to serious fear of disorder and which, combined with such a private sanction, could lead to an administrative measure. So I am not asking for a final definition of this. But because there are so many situations that are conceivable, as the Minister says, whether or not they can lead to this, I would ask the Minister to give us some examples and give us some guidance in practice. I therefore ask for examples of which the Minister says at this stage: this seems to be a very promising situation. One example has been mentioned of someone going into the field. And the Minister says in the reply, "I wouldn't think of that right away." That is why I would like to hear more from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u66	I understand that need, especially if this would contribute to the thought behind the law. Let me put it first: when I look at the figures, I see that hundreds of civilian territories and stadiums have been banned in recent years. A kaleidoscope of experience has thus already been acquired. It is not the case that new experiences should be provided for the present legislative proposal. Current practice already indicates when certain powers are deployed. There's a lot of experience with that. So it is not the case that mayors need new definitions to work with these new powers. Mayors need to be able to do more on the basis of their experience, the knowledge and skills already available, and on the basis of judicial review in a number of cases. After all, they find that they need this. Apart from the practical problem that I would not be able to give that overview, there is no need to give it. Because there's already a lot of experience. The law is already being implemented, just not to this extent and therefore the law is being amended.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u67	Does the Minister also consider that the mayor should not be enclosed with all kinds of criteria that this Chamber is about to set? Isn't it true that someone who's been ordered, but finds that order displeased, can just go to court? Isn't it true that the contours of the minima and the maxima of what the mayor can do will eventually be determined by the judge if a lot of people have gone to court?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u68	I agree with Mr Markuszower. I understand, however, that Mrs Beuving would be pleased if I gave an overview of the behaviours that are now covered in practice. I've already listed: throwing a stone, hitting police officers, entering a stadium, look at the Feyenoordrellen, destroying windows and causing other destructions on and around the stadium and in trains. There are many examples that everyone knows and against which mayors and the public prosecutors act. However, it can never be the case that what I do not mention is outside the scope of the regulation. That's really for assessment by each individual mayor in each individual case.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u69	One more time, Mr Markuszower.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u70	The minister used the word "property" in relation to the mayor's orders. Isn't that typically a term that doesn't fit in with a mayor's orders?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u71	Now Mr Markuszower has to explain his question a little more. When the government takes a measure, I think it should always be proportionate. That therefore depends on the nature of the behaviour, but in particular on the measure you take.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u72	Is that a requirement? In criminal law, that's a requirement. With an order, I don't think that's a requirement of the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u73	I would find it difficult to come up with a situation that I may need a little more time to do so, in which a mayor takes a decision that affects an individual and which we find is not proportionate, while it is maintained by the judge. When I think with Mr Markuszower, it seems to me, quite frankly, to be out of the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u74	Mr Markuszower, you were allowed to interrupt once. In the end, I gave you twice the opportunity to do so. If I give you three opportunities, I can never come back here again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u75	I'm going to help you come back, Mr. Chairman. Let me come back to the previous point. The Minister is right to say that the mayor will make his own judgement on what is or is not proportional. However, legislation also has a different side, for example a social impact. What is the possibility that the mayor has of parties such as the KNVB? In this connection, the Minister himself mentioned the ping-pong associations with a wink and I would just mention the community center that has a beautiful foundation. So it's also a bit about the impact in society on all kinds of parties who might see their chance to visit the mayor a little too easily and say: what's happening here is displeasure to me. I'm looking for clues, for clues in the law. We should not open the door too much to this, because otherwise the Minister will perhaps make the judicial authorities even more responsible for all the appeals that this brings.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u76	I agree with Mr Lintmeijer. Moreover, I do not share his view that this means that you should change something about what is now under legislation. I have actually already given this answer to Mrs Beuving. The possibility that private parties have already taken a decision can be used. For example, the KNVB can do so on the basis of the contractual relationship between the seller of a ticket for a football match and the buyer of that ticket. This gives the KNVB the opportunity to impose a stadium ban in the private, contractual sphere. If the KNVB does this, it would be very good and could work preventively if hooligans knew there was a risk that the mayor would say: I confirm this with an order from my side. I can imagine the mayor saying: if the KNVB sees reason to keep you out of the stadium, I want you not to be in a 100 or 200 meter strip around that stadium, because otherwise you're going to riot there. However, I fully agree that it is not possible for the mayor to take over the decision of a private organisation one-on-one, without any independent investigation. Because then there is indeed the risk that, at a meeting of the community center, I shall be calling for something very wild to be decided that the annoying inflammatory Member, Mr A, should not come in anymore. Of course you can't. Everyone understands that, I hope. If that were to happen, let us state here that this power of the mayor was not created for that purpose.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u77	The Minister understandably is somewhat reluctant to give all kinds of examples of serious disturbance. I understand. At the same time, we need to make this a little more concrete. I mentioned in my speech the example of the use of an anti-Semitic choir. Can the Minister reflect on that for a moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u78	That is what I am going to do, because Mr Van Dijk has also asked a question about this. I can bring up the answer to that question. This is one of the challenges that Mr Van Dijk has rightly faced. In the preparation of the reply, we have given this a lot of thought. I believe that everyone in this Chamber agrees that an anti-Semitic or discriminatory choir is undesirable. It is in many cases a criminal offence. But is it also a disturbance of public order? You can argue that it wouldn't be. We have the specific example of Utrecht, for there have recently been spokesmen. Moreover, it was not possible to determine who the culprits were, so that case did not lead to a criminal case. In that case, the question arises: Mayor Aboutaleb has literally asked himself this question, if you, as mayor, had known who had sung it, then in that stadium or in that hall you would or would not have decided to do something against those particular individuals. My feeling is that it is, I say in all honesty, but it remains to be seen whether this is sustainable, because it is a question of public order. I think this is a good example of why it is not appropriate to think that we are able to make the manual soldier for mayors for the application of this law. This example shows how complicated it is. Let me say first of all that I would like it to be included, because I find anti-Semitic, discriminatory choirs in a football game totally unacceptable, I say again. That's what I said across the street. Maybe there's every reason to try. Let me say here that a mayor trying to do that, to see if it includes, might do something very good, but that's up to the mayor himself. Then I come to the subject of first offenders. Mr Ruers has asked why a sanction is already being imposed at the first time and whether a serious disturbance should not be criminally arrested. The last point has already been raised in the debate. I have referred to the Children of State, here above my head. When it comes to first offenders, it's always a question of whether it's a first offender. A first offender becomes a first offender at the time you discover who the person concerned is, but it may be that he has been part of riots or soccer vandal for two years. If you see someone performing for the first time, it might be that they've been active for a long time, but we don't know that, because we haven't seen the person before. In the eyes of the government, it is a first offender, but that does not mean that this behavior is shown for the first time by the person concerned. We'll never know. For us, it's a first offender. Then why do you want to do something? Because we know from a lot of research that first-offers sometimes think about whether this is the right behavior or whether they want it to be. Therefore, that administrative response is appropriate, which is aimed at preventing the repetition of that behaviour. That's also something the mayors asked for. Mr Markuszower asked for the word'serious' to be removed. I told you, I don't think that's proportionate. For light facts, it is reasonable for the mayor to be able to impose the measure on the basis of the APV.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u79	Into the rematch. Isn't it better to leave to the mayor what is or isn't serious? Why should the Minister restrict the mayor by inserting the word "serious"?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u80	We are creating a power that can lead to a restriction of people's privacy. It can also be significant, for example in the case of an area ban, with a maximum of 90 days, as stated in the law. Then I think it is appropriate that you align the threshold to apply it with how we have organised it further in the Netherlands. This means that there must always be something serious. That is why I do not wish to follow Mr Markuszower's proposal. There was also no majority in the House of Representatives for a similar idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u81	Despite the fact that there was no majority in favour, the Minister could have proposed this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u82	The Minister can do almost anything, I have discovered, but also that the Minister must join the system that we have in our legal system, in particular in our preventive and punitive system. I do not think we should do that, because it would not be proportionate. If I had done so, we would have had a very different debate here, and personally I think it is right. Then I'll go abroad and the Italians. Several MPs, such as Mrs Van Bijsterveld and Mr Ruers, have asked whether it is possible to apply the law abroad. It's conceivable that the mayor's gonna impose a restraining order. The mayor of Hoek van Holland could impose a ban on the ferry to England. Can an area bid be imposed, which de facto prevents someone from going to an outing game abroad? I believe that this goes beyond the territory of the mayor's powers. I don't think this is possible. This means that I do not share the suggestion made in the article by Mr Schilder and Mr Brouwer. I do not think that is proportionate either. In our society we insist that someone is mayor over a municipal territory, but it can't be that you then turn out to be indirectly competent about foreign affairs. My answer to the questions raised is that it is not possible, under this law, to impose measures abroad. That is not possible anyway, but I do not consider it proportionate for the mayor to impose an obligation to stay somewhere, with the area bid, which means that you cannot de facto go to an outing match. In the Netherlands it is now arranged that you can make a decision on behalf of a fellow mayor. That provides for a need that exists. One possibility that has existed for a long time is that the criminal court may impose a reporting obligation and a location order on individuals for all competitions at home and abroad, making it virtually impossible for this person to travel. This is in line with the punitive nature of the powers of the criminal court. I told you, the KNVB has that possibility, but under contract law. Then I come to Mr De Graaf's question. I look forward with fear and trembling to the exchange that is about to come. He asked about the "evens on behalf" construction. How is it that the Mayor of Amsterdam can also decide on behalf of the Mayor of Rotterdam about the presence of a person at a football match of Ajax in Amsterdam and also the return race in Rotterdam? Is that unique? Yeah, that's unique. It's never been shown before. What kind of decision is that? I have been able to think about this for a long time in preparation. I have come to the conclusion that it is a special mandate, that is, without being subordinate, because mayors are not subordinate to each other, but equivalent. This means that a form of mandate is being set up, without this subjugation. Is that different from what we used to do? The answer to that is yes. I've always learned that if you don't know the answer to a question like that in law, you're yelling: it's sui generis, and everyone looks blurry around. I didn't think I'd get away with that with Mr. De Graaf. That's why I figured it out better. This is the story. I think Mr De Graaf is looking for what that means in practice. This means in practice that if the mayor of Amsterdam also imposes such a location ban on behalf of the mayor of Rotterdam, in or around the stadium at those specific matches, someone who wishes to object to it, for the stadium in Amsterdam does so to the mayor of Amsterdam and for the stadium in Rotterdam to the mayor of Rotterdam. That's how it's broken down. So you cannot appeal to the mayor of Amsterdam against both decisions, because it is a decision that is also taken on behalf of the mayor of Rotterdam, including in the name of the mayor of Rotterdam. And now my heart rate is increasing from 120 to 140. That's very healthy, because you're gonna lose it, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u83	Then we'll continue this evening.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u84	Before Mr De Graaf continues, I would advise you not to use the term "sui generis" too often in this house.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u85	I was afraid you'd say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u86	That's why I'm gonna say it anyway, just to be clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u87	Unfortunately, the Minister's answer does not lead to clarity, but to many new questions. The minister was just talking about "in the name of" another mayor. I believe that the legal text deals with 'at the request of'. The article of law is based on the power in this example of the mayor of Amsterdam to impose, at the request of the mayor of Rotterdam on grounds of serious fear, the mayor of Rotterdam or the mayor of Amsterdam for disturbances of public order in the competition, a ban on the territory by means of a reporting obligation. So it's not in the name of... Then there's the mandate. The Minister is right: this legal arrangement is based on the possibility that someone on his behalf may have a jurisdiction exercised by another person, under his direction to the other person. That is not the issue here either, because there is no subjugation. So I'm looking for what this is. Although it is better not to use the term'sui generis', it does not seem to me to be either delegation or attribution or mandate. It therefore seems to me to be wrong, because the mayor of Amsterdam, for example, cannot apply powers outside the territory of his own municipality, even at the request of others. Anyone who requests it must do so. I can imagine, as could be described in the law, that in this example the mayor of Amsterdam and the mayor of Rotterdam make a joint or simultaneous decision. That could be very good. But it seems to me legally impossible for one mayor to do it at the request of another, given the territorial limitation of the powers of all mayors.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u88	I understand Mr De Graaf's point. This is a special construction we haven't had before; it's new. That justifies the questions put by Mr De Graaf. But precisely because it happens on request, so "also on behalf of," the mayor of a city gives the possibility to impose such an order on his behalf. He then does so in the interests of public order and for fear that the disturbance of public order will occur, i.e. the criterion of serious fear. That is what we agreed on, and that is what we think is necessary. Mr De Graaf wonders what exactly this is. I'm afraid to say what I actually think it is, because I can't do that anymore. Then there is the question of whether it can be done. Mr De Graaf says that it is legally incorrect in his knowledge. However, I think it can be done simply because it is a matter of applying, on behalf of a mayor, the same mayor's powers because of fear of disorder. So here one mayor helps the other mayor to keep someone from his territory, because one mayor already knows that the other mayor will have problems with that. In the light of the way mayors work together in the Netherlands, practical implementation is therefore very important. I agree with Mr De Graaf if he wonders whether we have seen this system in the Netherlands before. I can't think of it that fast. Maybe I'll come up with something brilliant on that point in second term. If that is not the case, then I would like to point out that I think it can work and that it works. It has to work, because it's not for nothing that mayors have said they want it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u89	I don't want to moan and I also think we should be a little creative, because it's not that you just have to think according to old theories. The problem in this provision, however, is that one mayor can ask another mayor to "also give a corresponding order on his behalf, if the mayor who gives the order has the serious fear" of public-order disturbance. It does not say that a second mayor may request an order on his behalf if the first mayor fears serious public-order disturbance in his own municipality. That's the weird part. The mayor who gives the order must have serious fear of public disorder in another municipality. That's weird, isn't it? If we allow this law to be passed and he comes into the Official Journal, I would ask the Minister to think carefully about this point and perhaps come back to the question of whether this is properly formulated.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u90	It goes without saying that this law needs to be evaluated. So was the previous law. I admit that we are taking this point into account. I am also very curious how often it will be used, because it implies a certain degree of preparation and interaction between two mayors, not necessarily of adjacent municipalities. Rotterdam and Amsterdam are obvious, but there are so many other municipalities conceivable that in practice the mayor will use his own jurisdiction rather than this "also on behalf" power. But I find it at least exciting that we are creating something new that we may not yet know exactly what the beast is called, but that the mayors need it, precisely because it's about getting out and home games. I understand that Mr De Graaf then says: I am a member of the First Chamber and for that reason I also look at the animal's name. I suggest we include that in the evaluation. I am very grateful to him for that suggestion. I also hope to be able to count on D66's support on this point, as for the rest of the law. Following a remark in the reply, Mr Schouwenaar asked why no additional effort could be expected from the partners. He wondered if the ideal situation had now been achieved. I meant that the KNVB and the football clubs, like the other partners, are convinced that we are not there yet to make football accessible, hospitable and safe. So they too remain committed to achieving better results together. It should be, because everyone who follows the news sees that there is still quite a football vandalism. The Regiegroep Football and Security is currently working on an impetus for standardisation, in order to achieve accessible, hospitable and safe football. On 29 June, the directing group sits with the mayors of the municipalities with a paid football organisation to discuss this ambition and to further develop it. All the partners, like Mr Schouwenaar and myself, are convinced that we can and must continue to move towards a more open and public-friendly football in the near future. Perhaps the suggestion has been raised that the partners think that the work has been done, but that is certainly not the case. They're gonna work hard on that. Mr Van Dijk has asked about the choir. I have already said that I think it is a very difficult, good question. There is no discussion that they are serious, but are they also a disturbance of public order? We have had that debate. I found out how complicated it is. I discussed it extensively with the KNVB on the basis of the Utrecht example. I have indicated how one specific mayor has thought about that question. I don't have the ready-made answer. Mr Ruers and Mr Lintmeijer have asked whether it is not strange that the criminal court and the mayor should be able to impose the same measures. It is true that mayor and criminal justice can, in principle, take similar measures. But the purpose for which that measure can be imposed is different. The mayor shall impose his measures to protect public order. This is particularly preventive for the future. The criminal court imposes the measures to protect society, to prevent criminal offences and, in particular, to compensate society for what has happened. For both purposes, an area ban or reporting obligation can be useful. That is why that instrument is provided for both, the criminal justice officer and the mayor. Of course, both have to make their own decisions on the basis of their own criteria. Mr Ruers asked about the state of play of the Van Nispen/Berndsen-Jansen motion, which was adopted in the House of Representatives. It calls on the government to ensure that rioters can be imposed, in addition to punishment, aggression therapy or addiction treatment. Aggression therapy and/or addiction treatment can fortunately already be imposed by the judge, on persons who, for example, have committed domestic violence, on multiple victims but also on rioters. That measure is imposed as a special condition. The motion is therefore already being implemented. I note that these conditions and possibilities have recently passed a legislative change, which has made much more room for tailor-made work on these conditions. I fully agree with Mr Ruers that you should not just look at repression or prevention in the sense that someone should not go anywhere. It is precisely the role of the mayor that needs to be taken into account in the context of the Security House with interested parties such as the Ggz, the Children's Protection Board and addiction care. One of the other members has also argued that prevention is not just about making it impossible for someone to be anywhere. It is also about solving the problem of the person concerned. In recent years, we have made this an ever-increasing starting point for policy. Then questions were asked about private sanctions. I've answered all those questions by now. Mr Ruers said that in the Lower House the SP Group had asked whether it might be a good idea to use more criminal law in football vandalism. Mr Markuszower also called for more frequent use of criminal law. We have to note that monitoring the orderly conduct of football matches, preventing disorder and preventing soccer hooligans is primarily a task of the football club itself, and then of the KNVB. If they do their job well, the problem should be solved. Criminal law has a role to play when the nuisance and disorder within or outside the stadium coincides with the commission of criminal offences.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u91	I understand the Minister's answer, but we are now dealing with the fact that the KNVB and the BVOs, who in principle have responsibility within the stadiums, are sending the message that they can't do it after ten years and that they are stuck. They appeal to the government, to the minister and to parliament to help in a criminal sense. They're literally saying the same thing. How does the Minister feel about that now? The Minister can say they have to do it themselves. Fine, I get that, too. But they've tried it for ten years, and they've come to the conclusion that it's not gonna work. They now call on the government, the prosecution and criminal law to act in that regard. How does the Minister deal with such a cri du coeur of the private organizations? Isn't that where an answer has to come from?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u92	There is also an answer, and that is, among other things, this law, in which we extend the administrative powers of the mayors in particular. By the way, I do not entirely agree with the idea that the KNVB and the football clubs are done with their work. I have just said this to Mr Schouwenaar. Why don't I agree? That is because I also see that no action has been taken, for example, with regard to the spokesperson in Utrecht: not by the referee and not by the board of football clubs. Eventually, the ball ended up in the Public Prosecutor's Office and the criminal court. I would also point out to Mr Ruers that the criminal court is always the ultimate medium. It is not the case that the criminal court is a panacea for all problems, but I do not think Mr Ruers means that either. Of course, you get to the criminal court when criminal offences have been committed, but the responsibility for preventing criminal offences ultimately lies primarily with the football clubs and the KNVB.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u93	I agree with the Minister's words. It's also their primary responsibility. The Minister is also right to say that it is an ultimatum remedium. I agree with him on that, too. But that's exactly why we're here now. They don't remember, they can't do it anymore and after ten years they're actually throwing the towel in the ring. It is an ultimate request to the government to proceed with this measure: to use criminal law more in serious cases, but not in the case of gambles. But then the Minister should not play the ball again, because then we have nothing and then the case just remains unsolved. It is an issue that the private sector cannot go on with.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u94	What I see is that if something very serious happens, such as those speakers in Utrecht, the organisations Mr Ruers says can no longer do anything about it. But they can. The referee is authorized to stop the match. That is the very best measure you can take in such cases, in riots or in speeches. This affects those who commit the 'crime'. It is not a crime, although it depends on it, because it can be. I find it too easy to say: we can't do it anymore. I don't know what "it" is. There is very active consultation with the KNVB and the football clubs. This also happens at mayor level; they are primarily responsible for it. On top of what the football clubs and the KNVB should and should do, and what they do in many cases, but not always, even though they are doing, the example of Utrecht shows that we are now creating powers that mayors need to be able to act effectively.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u95	Mrs. Beuving, you'd already checked in with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u96	Yes, that was because I thought I heard the Minister say that he had answered the questions about the private sanction. This was true, albeit with a considerable amount of reluctance, of my question about the examples around the subject. However, I have also asked how the Minister is going to see this behaviour which has apparently occurred in the sphere of a private organisation. I used the word 'fix' very consciously; I did not just mention the word 'proofing', because that can very well be used as a criminal offence. How is the mayor going to determine this and then assess it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u97	It is good that Mrs Beuving asks that question. I will give you a clear answer to that. As far as I am concerned, there is no difference between the consideration the mayor makes following a ban on a private organisation and a ban on his own account without a private organisation being involved. I say this particularly because I can well imagine that, if you have a lot of experience with a specific football club that always carefully imposes a stadium ban on a particular person, the tendency could arise to say: then it will be true. I think this is dangerous. As mayor, you are not sufficiently careful to determine whether the criteria have been met. That consideration is therefore the same in both cases. Then Mrs Van Bijsterveld's question, and to some extent Mrs Beuving's, is justified: why do we actually have it? That's because you can look at it the other way around. If a football vandal knows that its stadium ban can be followed by an administrative ban that runs longer and sees that not only on the stadium itself, but also on the surrounding area where in many cases the people who are not allowed to go in and who are then going to riot there, the stadium ban is more effective. I am convinced that this measure can work and can make a strong contribution to this. However, the substantive balance cannot be different. As far as the Acts are concerned, I would say that I think it wise for mayors to consult with football clubs and say under what conditions they can submit such a ban to them. And that a mayor also says in front of you, "Watch out, if you find and want me to follow it up, I will do so if those and those criteria are met." So make sure you've thought about it yourself. Of course, that saves a lot of coordination, but a mayor still has to check whether those criteria are met. Otherwise, the situation could arise that the football club can determine whether an administrative ban is imposed. However, that is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u98	I suggest we take this to the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u99	Maybe a very small one...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u100	Very small, then.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u101	I note that the Minister's attention is mainly focused on the substantive criteria, but we are also thinking about practical issues such as establishing facts. What actually happened?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u102	The mayor's gonna have to do the same for himself. He cannot invoke that something has already been established by party X or Y. I am referring again to what Mr Lintmeijer said about the neighbourhood association. You will really have to determine that for yourself, because the instrument is too heavy to rely on a private organization. That is the answer to Mrs Beuving's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u103	Okay, that's a clear round.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u104	If I understand the Minister correctly, he said earlier that private organizations such as the KNVB and the clubs are not exempt from their obligation to act as other parties, for example, as the Public Prosecutor and the mayors have acted. But what about the other way around? I understand that the KNVB, in cooperation with the clubs, has banned more than 500 stadiums during the previous football season, while the Public Prosecutor and the judge have done the same in less than 30 cases. That's a huge difference. Does the Minister know how many mayors have passed an order in the previous season and to what extent mayors and the Public Prosecutor regard the actions of one of the other parties as moderating their own actions?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u105	I didn't get the figures for the previous season ready, simply because they aren't there yet. What Mr Markuszower says is correct. In season 2013-2014, 572 civil law stadium bans were imposed against 19 criminal law, according to my figures. In any case, this is considerably more limited. If Mr Markuszower asks why that is, the answer is that criminal law does not always lend itself to the application of what is used in the civil ban. Those two things have a different character. The criminal is punitive, the mayor is preemptive. Then there is much more a need for the mayor to do so. Moreover, if you want to be quick, I think Mr Markuszower knows better than I do how fast football matches can succeed each other, I don't know as well as you can in many cases not afford to wait for the criminal court, because it is very often impossible to reach a final judgment on the nature of the criminal proceedings as we know them, despite the fact that we have speeded them up very much. That explains the difference for me, but I do not agree with Mr Markuszower when he says that we should therefore have more criminal law. That is what I said to Mr Ruers. I am a huge fan of criminal law where it is needed, as an ultimatum remedium, because all other means have failed. Football vandalists are in many cases relatively young people. A criminal measure results in a criminal record, not a restraining order. Then it might be wiser for someone's future, especially for a first offender, not to immediately go into criminal law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u106	Last time, Mr Markuszower.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u107	I recognize that, which is why I asked about the mayors and the figures of their performance. We've been in criminal law 19, or 28, or whatever it is, but how often do these mayors perform? I asked you whether the actions of one of the three parties - civil, public prosecutor, mayor - are, in my view, the three parties - affect the restraint of the other two parties. So if one has acted, does that dampen the will of the other party, Public Prosecutor or mayor, for example, to take action as well?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u108	On the last point, there is the coincidence between mayoral activities and the Public Prosecutor's Office. If the Public Prosecutor acts, the mayor will not act, but the other way around it is because it has a different character. The mayor is preventive, looks to the future, while the criminal court looks to the past: is the conduct of such a nature that there should be a criminal action? Those measures can have the same effect, which can be a ban or whatever, but it can also be a punishment. It may be a few weeks or a few days in prison, depending on the nature of the crime, but that doesn't solve the problem of the future for the mayors. Precisely because these two run apart, that can lead to a different outcome. The numbers of the mayor's bans that have been imposed are a little older than I'd like to, but I'll give them to you anyway. In the period from 1 April 2011 to 11 April 2012, i.e. under the old law, the law was applied a total of 293 times, of which under mayor's orders 213 times, while there were 78 behavioral instructions by the prosecutor. We haven't talked about that much, but they still exist. I admit those numbers are a bit on the old side, but they do give a picture. In most cases, therefore, the KNVB itself uses the civil stadium ban.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u109	May I ask the Minister how much longer he thinks he needs?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u110	Mr. Chairman. I have five more questions I need to answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u111	The shorter, the better!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u112	I'm gonna do that, Mr. Chairman. I'll take over this assignment immediately. Mrs Van Bijsterveld asked me to respond to the opinion of the Council of State on the scope of the ban. First of all, of course, it is by nature that the legislator must always be somewhat abstract, because a law is not meant for one specific case. The same applies to the freedom-limiting measure contained in this law. It can also be applied in other areas, as I have already exchanged with the Chamber. In order to assess whether a measure of a certain duration and intensity is necessary and appropriate, not only the nature and gravity of that offence, but also the circumstances in which it was committed and other circumstances are relevant. This means that for this reason you need a broader description and that you will ultimately leave to the judge to justify the choice and proportionality of the scope and duration. Mr Markuszower asked for the Helder amendment on group liability. That is a debate that has been held a few times in the Chamber, including on the basis of an amendment, as Mr Markuszower said. On group liability, an initiative law has also been tabled by Mrs Helder. Under this initiative law, I will discuss this with her in greater depth. I do not think it is appropriate to do so now. Mr Lintmeijer has asked why the prosecutor does not have a firmer position. That is because the position has already been strengthened in 2010. The D.A. has a lot more options. In addition to the possibilities he has here, he can also use the ordinary criminal prosecution. The evaluation did not receive any complaints from the Public Prosecutor's Office. There was also no need to change the position of the officer following the evaluation. Mr Markuszower has asked whether the penalty level of Article 184 of the Criminal Code is sufficient. I am not aware of any signs from practice that a three-month prison sentence would not be sufficient to punish offenders of a mayor's order. That's also the maximum sentence. In practice, much less is required. That is why it is important for the mayor to be able to take preventive measures, because they can do more on that point than the criminal court could. Therefore, I do not see any reason to change the level of punishment, not least because I have some information that the maximum penalty is imposed once or regularly, which, of course, could be done if there is any coincidence with other offences or offences. Mr Schouwenaar, Mr Van Dijk, Mrs Beuving and Mr Lintmeijer asked about the investigation promised by my predecessor. It is correct that an investigation has been undertaken into the possibilities of improving the clarity and applicability of public order law. That commitment began in the legislative proposal extending search powers. The WODC has included this research, I say to Mrs Beuving, in the annual programming for 2015. My expectation is that I will be able to inform this Chamber, as well as the House of Representatives, which also regularly asks about it, about the start of that investigation in the very short term. The fact that this bill is based on the mayor's country's request for additional measures is no reason to wait for that investigation. This research is important given the signals that discussion about the toolbox can take place in the wide palette. Mr Schouwenaar asked about the digital reporting obligation and who pays the costs. The tightening of the law creates the legal basis for the use of a digital reporting obligation. This has been done in view of technological developments and the future stability of the law. The Regiegroep Football and Security, which I mentioned earlier, has spoken about the digital reporting obligation and has established that everyone who wants to use it is responsible for its application and also for its costs. Moreover, I think it will take some time for this digital reporting obligation to be used very actively, because this is a very new instrument, which should also involve a certain technological development in municipalities. I certainly think that this is a very easy way to implement the law in the future. I also say in the direction of Mr Markuszower that the digital reporting obligation is possible but that the physical reporting obligation is always possible. It's a choice to do one or the other. I can imagine that, for cost reasons alone, digital reporting may sometimes be easier, but the physical may also be the best.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u113	I'd like a brief word, Mr. Markuszower.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u114	Does the Minister recognise the KNVB's assumption that the physical reporting obligation is imposed less often than possibly a digital reporting obligation in the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u115	At the moment, because the law does not yet exist, the digital reporting obligation has, of course, never been imposed. I do not think that matters much, it is about the purpose, namely to ensure that people who are vandals have turned out or cannot be found at the place where they can carry out that vandalism. The choice is then to see who you can best keep from that intention. Mr Van Dijk asked a good question about the passing on of police costs. My department's 2014 budget states that police charges at events and football are not being passed on. That is difficult to implement, I say in general terms, and also a political choice that will not necessarily be able to count on much enthusiasm. This also applies to paid football. The police involvement in stadiums has been minimized, precisely because clubs there have become much more responsible, with stewards and private security. I think that's appropriate, too. But outside the stadiums, the government is primarily responsible for public order and security. That is why it has been decided not to proceed with the calculation. Mr Van Dijk and Mr Ruers have asked for permanent alcohol-free stadiums and a ban on alcohol in the honorary division. That's a responsibility of the mayors themselves. They can already ban the sale of alcohol. The same applies to the KNVB and the clubs for paid football. If they think there are reasons for this, they should do so in particular. That's not something I'm going to leave as a minister. Mr Ruers has asked me to take the English approach seriously. That's what happened. This has been done in the context of monitoring and evaluation. The English situation has been looked at. This is difficult to compare with the Dutch situation, for example because the police in England can also prosecute themselves. That's a matter for the State's Attorney's Office. This makes the comparison very difficult. The most important thing is the final result. We want football vandals and other people who cause nuisance to be dealt with effectively. We are convinced that this bill will do so. I do suggest that we continue to look at other countries. I always find that important because we see that some countries sometimes do things smarter or better than us. I propose that we include this in the review of this law in five years after its introduction. This immediately answers Mrs Bikker's question when the law is being evaluated. As far as I am concerned, we are aiming for five years after the entry into force of this law. However, that was the intention of last time, but earlier the need for the law to be adapted has already arisen. If that is not the case now, it will be five years. But once mayors or the Public Prosecutor's Office say after two years of experience with this law that we have to look at the law again very seriously because of a specific situation, I am always prepared to do so. In principle, however, we do so after five years. Then we take the experiences of, for example, the English system, but also other experiences from abroad. Mr Markuszower has asked about the detective capacity. The debate on this could take us far into the night. Police are a scarce asset and my budget is limited. We note that the fight against football violence is part of the regular police mission. The local triangle determines the capacity to be made available. This can be done by the National Police and also by policemen from outside the region. The impression is that within the constraints, within the existing scarcity, the National Police have sufficient capacity to cope with football vandalism. This brings me to the end of the answers to the questions put by the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u116	Thank you very much, Minister, for your response in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u117	Mr. Chairman. I would like to congratulate the four spokesmen who made their maiden speech today from this place. I would also like to thank the Minister for the precise and careful answer to the questions raised in the first term. It is also good that he has given an explanation of some of the issues that my group has no longer raised in the oral procedure, but through written questions. This concerned the relationship between administrative law and criminal law in this area. That was very enlightening. We thought that was adequate and convincing. This also applies to the answer to the question of why we are now bringing forward the legislative proposal and the question of the position of the first offenders. Although my contribution did not explicitly go into this, I am happy to report this here. I will deal with two points that I raised in my first term. The first is the position of the mayor in relation to the territorial scope of his powers. I think it is very clear that the Minister said that the proposal launched in the Lawyer's Magazine was indeed not a good idea as far as he was concerned. He said that he also felt that a ban could only extend to the limits within which the mayor himself had competence. He mentioned as an example that it is not possible to ban anyone from going on the ferry to visit a football game outside the country. Is this particularly true because, in most cases, it will be an order extending beyond the territory of the municipality within which the mayor is competent? Of course, this is not so much the case for a mayor in whose area that ferry happens to be. Is it a matter of territorial competence, or is it a question of whether the mayor is actually using the means to prohibit competitions, which is not in line with the nature of the jurisdiction given to him? Then there is a substantive objection, namely the use of jurisdiction in a way that is not appropriate. Of course, it can be both, namely that it is not applied outside the territory and that application is not appropriate, but I would ask the Minister to go into that. That seems to us to be important for the clarity of the whole. I come to my second and final point. We have also talked about the basis of the mayor's order in the situations where a private organisation, a football club, has sanctioned someone. Then a mayor's order can follow when the other conditions are met. During the previous plenary debate, we found that a prior private sanction always requires its own assessment by the mayor and that it cannot simply rely on the sanction or judgment of a private organisation. We have also noted that this provision has remained after the deletion of the so-called AMvB requirement by letter of amendment. After everything the Minister has said and the explanations and explanations he has given, my question is whether there is still a superfluous provision left. It may be useful that it should be in place because a mayor may come up with the idea of issuing such an order when there is a private-law sanction, but it is essentially unnecessary. Is the Minister prepared to consider, in the event of a future amendment of this law, by means of a sweeping law, a change law or an amendment in this context, to delete this provision for reasons of necessity?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u118	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for his nuanced reply and the pleasant way he did it. This indeed makes a debate with him pleasant and also relevant. I say that to a former member of the board of the Parliamentary History Foundation. I am pleased to note that membership is really a qualification for higher posts, as has been shown on several occasions by this Minister. What I do think is serious is that the members who were already members of this Chamber have unfortunately not been given a key ring by the Minister. How are we supposed to be updated at night? I hope that the Minister will reconsider his 'generousness' in this area too, including for Members who have already had a term in this Chamber. We have talked about a number of issues. The need for this provision of law has been explained to the Minister to the best of his ability. I kind of missed the objectivable element in it. Many mayors think that they should actually have more instruments, because then it becomes even more effective but in fact few incidents have been added. There are even less serious incidents. This need can therefore still be questioned. More importantly, I think there are a number of other issues, first of all the serious disorder versus the ordinary disorder. Normally, I wouldn't make a point of that because this is a qualification that can be left to mayors. In this case, the law gives legal effect to a serious public disturbance or ordinary public disorder. In the latter case, the first offenders shall be subject to repeated disturbance of public policy or the group-by-group disturbance of order. In the first case, action may be taken by the mayor with serious restrictions of liberty without the criterion of repeatedity. This raises the question of where the distinction lies. I found the answer to this point somewhat disappointing. I have already invited the Minister to indicate in writing in the second term and otherwise in writing how he looks at that distinction. When are we talking about serious public disorder, for which the mayor should have far greater powers? An interesting discussion point during the debate turned out to be the mayor's territorial requirement. The Minister agrees with my group that this is a determining factor in the authority of the mayor; so no chatter, like Mr Schilder and Mr Brouwer in the Dutch Juristenblad, in the sense that as mayor of Wymbritseradeel, I would like to mention a side street, which is also prohibited from attending a competition in Russia. In the meantime, the provision of 172a (3) remains difficult, because the territorial principle plays a role, because the legal figure is introduced "(...) also at the request of another mayor." But that is precisely the other mayor, in the example of the minister the mayor of Amsterdam, while the disorder could occur in Rotterdam. I hope that the Minister will look at this issue separately in the evaluation. As far as I'm concerned, he can come back to it sooner. I very much support Mr Van Bijsterveld's question on private sanctions. Mrs Van Bijsterveld referred to this as a superfluous provision. I think that's right. I have also tried to make that clear in the first term. There's no follow-up. The mayor must judge independently whether or not the issue is in the law. However, there is a suggestion that after his private sanction, the mayor has some kind of extra legitimation to impose an administrative sanction. The Minister denies this in the documents and in his contribution in the first term. The question then is why that provision remains. The minister talked about the toolbox that's too full. That's right. I agree. The minister was wondering if the mayor could handle it. His answer is that the mayor can handle it. I suspected that, because we have good mayors in the Netherlands but that was not the question. The question is whether we should do it to the mayor, especially as a security man or woman, in view of the other functions of the mayor. I will take the matter back to my group. It will be an interesting consideration within my group whether we can support the legislative proposal next week if it is put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u119	Mr. Chairman. On behalf of my group, I would like to thank the Minister for his response. I appreciate the way in which he has dealt with all points. I've got two more points. The first one's a little negative. I'll start with that. After that, I have a positive point. I hope the Minister feels the same way. That's what I'm gonna end up with. First of all, the outings. The Minister has indicated that we agree that under this law, there is at least nothing you can do with competitions abroad. Brouwer and Schilder have provided an opportunity for this. I wouldn't want to qualify it as "frats," because I did see something in it. It is very simple, namely a notification obligation in the home municipality at the time of the exit contest, so all the way within the mayor's own territory and the fan in question. I do not see any cross-border problems. I understand from the Minister that he doesn't want anything else to do with it, but I regret that. I would ask him not to rest on that, but at least to provide some argument on the matter. It may turn out to be a joke later, but I hope not. I would also like to make a number of arguments, if appropriate. There is now the construction with the request but in my view that is a bit of an uncertain construction. It is not very clear to what extent it will be really effective now, accepted by the administrative judge and used by mayors. In addition, a notification obligation results in a relatively slight restriction of freedom of movement. The supporter in question may not be present at the competition of his club. He can track it through the media. He may not be able to take that trip, but he would do it for a somewhat questionable purpose. The question is whether we should cooperate in this. When considering, on the one hand, the restriction of freedom of movement and, on the other hand, the objective pursued, the prevention of damage, riots and such situations, the balance is, as far as I am concerned, in the direction of reporting obligations. Thirdly, it appeals to me that the mayor, regardless of the territory, is responsible for his club and therefore also what the fans of that club do elsewhere. In this case, this may not be a pleasant responsibility but it also happens that the club is doing well, that the club becomes champion or plays European cup matches abroad. Then we also sometimes see mayors testifying to their connection with and responsibility for what happens to the club. They are therefore cheering on the platform and holding the cup up. That medal has two sides too. So is NEC, although it's been a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u120	For history, I have to admit that it has unfortunately never happened to me that I could cheer with a cup for NEC, but I hope that is true for my successor.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u121	I hope so, sir. On the other side of the House of Representatives, everyone explained in detail for which club each of the spokesmen was. I'm glad we're not doing that here. However, I would like to ask the Minister whether he would like to check whether the idea of a reporting obligation for outings offers more or different possibilities than the current application structure. Then there's the positive point. My group was very pleased with the way in which the Minister responded to the call from associations who, throwing the towel in the ring, want more criminal law. Firstly, I believe that we, as legislators in our country, are creating room for criminal law and criminal proceedings, but that we leave the way in which this space is filled and used to a large extent to the sector itself, to the incumbent and standing magistrates. We're not interfering. Secondly, there is the perception that it is either: criminal law or administrative law or private measures. It's not, it's en-and. Firstly, civil measures whose stadium ban is a very nice and effective means. Secondly, administrative law, including bans on areas which are relatively simple and effective from a preventive point of view. It is only in the case of serious offences that criminal law, with the obvious repressive element, is the retaliation, but also with preventive elements such as special prevention and general prevention. In other words, very much prevention, little repression and criminal law only in the case of serious crimes as an ultimatum remedium. As far as we are concerned, we are not throwing in the towel, but we are developing and applying new methods of prevention and enforcement of existing measures. We believe that this law is an excellent contribution to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u122	Mr. Chairman. I can make it quick. I would also like to thank the Minister for his strong response. He did that very eloquently, ad rem and with humour. I wasn't surprised to hear that he's from Haarlem, the city of Godfried Bomans. Well done! Thank you also for the congratulations, the beautiful gift that has been promised but that I have not yet seen. I'm very curious. Then to the content. This debate has not resulted in a final definition of'serious disturbance', but that was also in line with expectations. In this light, we have not had any clear answers to the question of whether, for example, anti-Semitic choirs constitute or are not a serious disturbance. This discussion will certainly come back elsewhere. I am very pleased with the strong condemnation of this phenomenon by the Minister and also with his appeal to the KNVB not to rest. It is good to hear that the Minister's approach to this is very much on the back of his mind. Here, to quote a Feyenoordleus, "not words, but deeds." We can't tolerate it. My final comment concerns the idea of more burdening the costs of police deployment on football clubs. Here I taste a little bit of ambition in the Minister's office. I did not expect the SGP to call on the Minister to implement the coalition agreement this evening, because that is what it says. Contrary to what the Minister said, there is certainly political support. There are only a few practical objections and problems, but they must be resolved. Let this be another reform in which this cabinet puts its teeth in! As far as this cabinet is concerned, the game is not over yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u123	Mr. Chairman. I assume that the Vice-President has expressed all the congratulations that have been expressed over the last few hours. I thank the Minister for his answer and for his gift with Lady Justitia; we are going to see that. I think it is very special that the Minister for Security and Justice is giving the Justice Department the Justice Department. Let that be a harbinger of everything that follows, then the rest of the ministry's words in my view disappear a bit into the background. Let's get down to The Christian Union warmly shares this minister's commitment to tackling vandals. He has glowfully argued why this law could be an additional means of doing so. My group had a number of questions, but not all questions are answered in such a way that I can already say: Minister, we wholeheartedly agree. On the contrary. I would like to ask a number of further questions and then come to a conclusion. As far as the first offenders are concerned, several speakers have pointed out to me that, according to the Minister, the point at issue is not hard to define the serious disturbance. I therefore agree with the question put by Mr De Graaf. The minister said that the communist opinio knows what serious disturbance is, but it is amazing that the minister cannot put it on paper. I would like to make this clear, either by adding more words to it or by drawing up more cases. The question is what should be the form of the dossier in the case of first offenders. That is not quite clear to me. The Minister has glowfully outlined why we certainly cannot deny the mayors this law: they absolutely need this means. All the questions that can be asked about the role of the mayors and the developments of the office should be put to his colleague in the Interior, that is what I am listening to. This law has been signed by both ministers. This house, this State-General, has always agreed to a new law, but every time there have been reservations. I would therefore ask the Minister to give a little more insight into the procedure which the Cabinet sees in the further development of the reflection on the role of the mayor, both in the context of public policy and in the further development of his office. With regard to private sanctions, I have heard Mr Van Bijsterveld and Mr De Graaf ask sensible questions, and I agree with that. I note that a mayor should do the same when there is no private sanction. Can the Minister confirm that? It is good that the review of this law is carried out after five years. The Minister has more or less promised that foreign experience will be involved. I thank him for that. He also welcomes it when mayors consider the evaluation to be necessary earlier, because that is good: the law has to work. I can well imagine that from his point of view, but that is limited to an evaluation of where it pinches, where mayors find that there is no other way. The evaluation of the law as a whole and of the problem as a whole will be omitted. I would therefore ask the Minister to look at the football law in its entirety after five years. In my first term, I finished with the roots of the law, and I will now. I have heard the Minister say good things about this. Prevention and recovery are important things to further prevent football vandalism. However, no action has been taken. The government has spoken glowing words about the "fat me." If the government is serious, then it is too thin that I only see the laws of repression. We may be able to discuss later in the context of a budget law how to prevent such vandals from growing up, how the children of state become beautiful citizens who bear their responsibilities rather than savage vandals. Fortunately, they are not depicted here, as far as I know, but I'm sure someone from the Parliamentary History Foundation will teach me about that. All in all, I have passed through the points on which I had a number of questions. I look forward again to the Minister's reply and will take it back to my group, after which we will discuss it further.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u124	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for his extensive and interesting speech and for answering the many questions that have been put to him in this first test of fire in this beautiful Chamber. I have four points I would like to put to the Minister. I shall begin with the point made by speakers before me, namely the concept of serious disturbance of law and order. That is a difficult concept, because I have heard the Minister make a long statement on it. A lot of questions have been asked about it. I found it interesting to see that the Minister simply says: we do not really know. Or we should fall into this case, but it is a very difficult subject. That makes it so important that this point gets attention here. If this bill becomes law and we are going to work with it, the practice will be that decisions are taken on the basis of the concept of serious disturbance of public order. Then, for example, attentive lawyers will read the Acts of this sitting and find that this Chamber and even the Minister do not know exactly what it is. For that, the Acts are very pleasant. If I were a thoughtful lawyer, I would keep that under review and think: yes, hello, they can prosecute on the basis of serious disturbance of public order, but no one knows what it is; even the legislator doesn't know it. Then you, no, then the judge will have a problem, especially the administrative judge. The mayor who takes a measure on the basis of this legal provision, claiming that there is a serious disturbance of the order, therefore has a very serious problem. I fear that this will soon lead to frustration in the courtroom and in the mayors, in the sense that they will fail in their decisions and then they will think: we will not do so, because the concept of serious disturbance of public order does not go to court. I would be pleased if the legislator, I would say this to this Chamber, but also to the Minister, Mr President-in-Office, were to think carefully about whether we can accept this concept in this way. I fear it will not work in practice. I'd like to hear the Minister's views on that. Then I'll go to the foreign games. I understand from Mr Schouwenaar that it is a gamble. He calls it a freak. I would like to read to Mr Schouwenaar a bit from the article "Many roads lead to Rome" by the professors Brouwer and Schilder. These are naturally leading professors. I'll let them know there's a bunch of shit being sold in this article.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u125	May I correct a misunderstanding? I didn't even qualify it as shit myself. I quoted someone else who put it away like shit and I tried to distance myself from that qualification. I think it is a fine article and my appreciation for Mr Brouwer and Mr Schilder is very great.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u126	Can you tell me who used the term "frats"? Who would have called this article a joke? You don't remember? It happens. I'm a little older too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u127	I'd like to go through the chairman, Mr. Ruers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u128	The writers argue that a simpler solution is conceivable than the construction in which mayors have to make decisions on behalf of each other. It is a system that can be used more widely, including for competitions abroad, in which a watertight control can also be enforced. How? The writers argue that the mayor should be given the power to prohibit supporters from visiting matches of the football club of his municipality, wherever played, on the grounds of fear of further disturbance of public order, for a fixed maximum period. The mayor should also be empowered to enforce that visit ban with a notification of each contest of the specific BVO during that period. The infringement of the reporting obligation should be subject to a substantial fine. I am very curious to see why this suggestion would not be helpful in solving the problem we have here. I'd like to hear from the Minister how he looks at this. The third point I want to discuss is the alcohol restriction in the stadiums. We know that in the first division, as it used to be called, the Jupiter League, success has been achieved. It has been discussed with the Division of Honor, but it is not done there. I'm sorry about that. If the VO's know it's working, I think it would be a job for the Minister to convince those VO's that it's useful to do it in the context of prevention. I would like the Minister to try again in that direction. The last point concerns the cri de coeur and throwing the towel in the ring by the KNVB, which says: please give us more possibilities in criminal law. I understand that some in this Chamber are not convinced of that. There's been a quadrangle meeting for some time. There is also often the KNVB. I know from internal information that in the quadrilateral consultation there is very careful consideration, even of the person, of how to deal with and deal with the problems in the different stadiums. That includes the KNVB. It is very carefully considered, together with the Public Prosecutor's Office, the police and sometimes also the mayor, how it is going to be handled. If, after ten years of experience, that organization says 'we can't make it', I think that's an indication of how serious it is to deal with it. If the KNVB, with that experience in mind, says 'we can't make it', I think the Minister has a job to do. He shouldn't say: figure it out for himself, we're not sitting for that. The government and the criminal court have a role to play in this for society. I believe that the Minister should give space in this area, particularly to the KNVB, who is asking for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u129	Mr. Chairman. I can be very short on this term. I thank the Minister for the detailed and careful answers. My group has received clear answers to its questions. I will advise my group to vote in favour of this bill. Finally, I would like to take this opportunity, on behalf of my group, to congratulate Mr Markuszower and Mr Lintmeijer on this afternoon's maiden speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u130	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for the open and frank way of replying. I welcome the Minister's answers in the area of proportionality of action. His interpretation goes in the direction we would like. I am also pleased that the Minister underlines that the decoupling of sanctions imposed by private organisations does not automatically lead to actions by the mayor. This brings me to the point mentioned by Mrs Van Bijsterveld, namely: why are we still putting it in the law, if there is no automation, and in particular the responsibility and role of the mayor remain intact? We are in favour of that, by the way. It does lead to a heavy burden for the mayor. He must not only interpret what is necessary and what has happened, he must also do his own fact finding and truth finding in order to arrive at a balanced judgment, where that would seem to have been made clear by private parties. But again, why should we even mention that link in the law? Then, as far as we are concerned, it would still be useful to provide more guidance in the law, which would give the mayor, but also the prosecutor and the criminal justice officer more guidance on how and when it is really at issue at this point in time to impose restrictions on freedom. I agree with the words of the Christian Union, D66 and the SP on how the concept of serious nuisance should be interpreted and on the clarity that would be desirable in that regard. The Minister's replies also show that the current law already imposes an enormous amount of sanctions on all the parties involved. I note with the Chamber that this law does not provide a solution for hurtful choirs and riots in Rome. That is a pity, because those are exactly the things that we are very concerned about each other about. All in all, I too will go back to my group in order to carefully consider our final position on this law. There's another unanswered question. Again, I am pleased with the research that now appears to be being carried out by the WODC. We would like to look explicitly at the controlling role of the city council and the relationship between the mayor and his own council in increasing the powers of the mayor in the field of public policy and security. Perhaps the Minister could say a few words about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u131	Is the Minister able to answer directly?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u132	I'll be able to answer directly, sturdy pede.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u133	Sui generis didn't go already, so of course stante pede didn't either.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u134	Mr. Chairman. First of all, thank you for the very heartfelt words that have been said about my maiden speech in your Chamber. I must say that I have greatly appreciated the exchange of views that is taking place here. With energy, I will leave this Chamber, looking forward to the next opportunity to exchange views with this Chamber in the same way. Moreover, I have noted that there is excellent food here. That too is not insignificant, at least in my life. In a number of areas the Members of this Chamber have asked for some clarification of some of the comments I made in the first period. I shall begin with the discussion on the concept of serious disturbance: what should be caught under it? I understand, however, that there is a great deal of understanding on the part of this Chamber that I am unable to give a kaleidoscope of all the behaviors that fit into it, so that once and for all it is clear what is covered by it, for the simple reason that it cannot and should not be, because we are not here tonight to restrict mayors, judges or the public prosecutors in their terms of reference. On the contrary, we all want to achieve the objective that vandalism in the general sense and football vandalism can be fought effectively or can be prevented. Those are exactly the two tasks that we have discussed today. However, several speakers have invited me to try again. I've been thinking about how I'd do that. If I can't do it in the negative way by a description of the trouble one can invent, the human ingenuity is, unfortunately, infinite. The final definition of the concept of "serious disturbance" will have to be based on case law, which we can leave to the writers of the more eminent manuals, including case law in administrative and criminal law. The concept of "public order" is defined by a generally accepted term, namely "the normal way of doing things at a certain point in time at a certain place." That may not sound very definitive either, but it is what this is all about. It also means that public order is always context-dependent. A distortion of public order is therefore also context-dependent. That doesn't make it any easier, but it's the way it is. So one disturbance is not the other disturbance either. However, certain behaviours distort the order in such a way and have such a significant distorting effect on other persons or goods that a responsible director, from his role as protector of public order, wishes to prevent this behaviour from being re-exposed by this particular person and/or that society may expect it from that responsible driver. That does not necessarily always have to be a double, but it can be. I think that is the correct description of the individual administrative judgment that we have discussed this evening. There is no formula with fixed components, but that will have to be the review framework. One thing is certain: doing nothing is not an option in this particular behavior. If that line is followed, the conclusion must be that there is a serious disturbance to which the strong measures we are hopefully agreeing this evening should apply. One of the members mentioned the riots at Hoek van Holland. There is no discussion that this was a serious disturbance, accompanied by major fighting. Furthermore, I refer to the horrific events of one and a half years ago around the Feyenoord stadium in Rotterdam and the activities of the Dam Screamer, with all the consequences. These are the obvious examples that everyone will understand that there was a serious disturbance. Of course, it becomes more difficult when it comes to smaller examples. Then it is really up to the mayor or the prosecutor, whether the judge or the administrative judge, after an objection and appeal, to give a ruling on this matter. Nice example, in the direction of Mrs Beuving: the KNVB punishes a number of behaviours in principle with a stadium ban of more than 12 months. Those are the more serious offenses. Then it's about arson, assault, sedition, firing fireworks and other forms of public violence. I think we agree that all of these things are covered by the term "serious disturbance." In addition, there must be a fear that before the mayor takes action, the conduct can repeat itself and that the offender intends to disrupt public order again. An example where the KNVB did not impose a club measure is that of someone who appears to be in the stadium outside the club card obligation. I'm going to report that because it's evident from the casuistics. But also throwing a toilet roll on the field is not a serious disturbance of public order, at least not in the sense that the KNVB has taken action on it. I will come back to Mr Ruers' point about the KNVB itself. As far as I may have given the impression that the KNVB itself is not doing anything, that is not correct. The KNVB has a clear line to work with the football clubs to prevent abuses in the stadium. In the case of the spokesperson at Ajax nothing happened at first, because the referee, the club and the KNVB were not sufficiently aware of the fact that there was a speaking choir with anti-Semitic texts. But the prosecution paid football a fine of €10,000 to FC Utrecht and a stadium part for a number of matches is closed to the public. The KNVB has taken on its responsibilities in this respect. But that is not to say, together with Mr Schouwaar, that the KNVB is finished talking and only needs criminal law. I believe, on the contrary, that the measures contained in this law allow a very balanced assessment of how appropriate measures can be taken where necessary. I am very pleased that there is a very intensive exchange between the D.A., the police and the KNVB, precisely in order to tackle these excesses as effectively as possible. What about the obligation to report, which is intended to prevent the attendance of out-of-country matches? The Dutch mayor is only competent to take measures within the territory of his own municipality. He can therefore, in principle, take a measure aimed at imposing a reporting obligation at the time of an exit competition in his own municipality. But then the question is 'I think the answer to that is 'no' if he has a legitimate interest in it. That is not in protecting public order in its own municipality, but in protecting the public order of a municipality elsewhere in the world. That could be in London or Moscow. The Dutch mayor is not yet talking about that, I say, in which it is meant "still" jesting. This means that in Article 172a (3) it is possible that a mayor, together with another mayor of a Dutch municipality, "also on behalf of" takes a decision for the out and home matches in order to solve the problems. However, it is not possible for a Dutch mayor to impose a measure in order to protect public policy in a non-Dutch other municipality, for which he is not competent and responsible. I also agree with Mr Schouwenaar that a mayor could try. My personal assessment is that it will not be accepted by a judge, but the case law will have to prove that. I see Mr Schouwenaar's remark so that he says more or less: well, a mayor should do that. I'm not going in there. I think what I said about this is right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u135	The Minister's speech appealed to me very much, but I would like to look at the text of paragraph 3 of Article 172a. It says: "The mayor of another municipality may ask a mayor to also give a person a corresponding order on his behalf, if the mayor who gives the order has the grave fear that that person will also disturb public order in the other municipality." In the minister's example: the mayor of Amsterdam also gives an order on behalf of the mayor of Rotterdam for a ban on the competition in Rotterdam, and in that case it is the mayor of Amsterdam who is seriously afraid that this person will also disturb public order in the other municipality. If you take that text literally and hear what the Minister has just said, namely that the mayor is really only about public order, and the fear of disorder, in his own municipality, then you have to conclude that these things are not entirely consistent. Well, then I'm still putting it mildly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u136	I very much appreciate the exegesis that Mr De Graaf and I have been developing on this issue throughout the evening, but I do point out two things. In the first term, I said: if you wish to object to the decision taken "also on behalf of', then you will also come to the mayor on behalf of whom that decision has been taken. It is then, in this example, a decision of the mayor of Rotterdam. Mr De Graaf is right that the law states that it is the issuing mayor, the one who gives the order, who must be convinced of the risk of disorder in the mayor's municipality making the request. However, he can only do so if the requesting mayor supports it. That is why we have found the basis to say the following. It is therefore clear that the requesting mayor fears serious disturbance of law and order. Next, in this example, the mayor of Amsterdam decides, on behalf of and at the request of the mayor of Rotterdam, who fears disturbance of law and order, a fear that the mayor of Amsterdam supports, to give that order. I have already said in the first term: if you, as mayor of Amsterdam, want to avoid the discussion about the De Graaf doctrine, then you are wise to make that decision yourself. However, I can also imagine that you do not do so because of the similarity of the person's behaviour and its impact on both municipalities. But it remains a decision taken by the mayor of the municipality of Rotterdam, partly on behalf of the mayor of Rotterdam, by the mayor of Amsterdam.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u137	As we all know, a good lawyer can speak a lot of law that isn't entirely straight. Once again, I express myself with moderation. The Minister should hear his own speech. He can't say two things at once. He cannot first say that it must be the mayor of a municipality itself who fears disturbance of public order in his municipality and then say: no, it is quite logical that a mayor of another municipality should have fear. The law is not about the fear of the mayor in whom the game is played, but about the fear of the mayor of the home game for disturbance of public order in the city where the game is played. In the Minister's reasoning, it should be the other way round in the law and the Mayor of Rotterdam should fear a disturbance of public order in his municipality, so that the Mayor of Amsterdam also imposes a ban on the territory on his behalf. It just doesn't say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u138	The problem is, however, I think that Mr De Graaf agrees with me that if there is no fear, the Mayor of Amsterdam will not be able to take that decision on behalf of the Mayor of Rotterdam. It can therefore be no different that the mayor of Amsterdam must also be convinced, on behalf of the mayor of Rotterdam, of the risk of disruption of public order in Rotterdam. The provision is then complied with because the mayor concerned, who takes the decision "also on behalf of', is convinced that both in his own municipality and in the municipality "also on behalf of', which he acts on behalf of', therefore, in both cases there must be a fear of disturbance of public policy. I say to Mr De Graaf: why would you, as mayor of Rotterdam, make such a request if you have no fear of disorder in your own municipality? Then you don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u139	I didn't make up this bill, so the Minister shouldn't address me. This legal text is inconsistent, especially in the light of what the minister himself says: a mayor is only about his own municipality and must therefore fear disturbances of public order in his own municipality. In the example we have been talking about all evening, the mayor of Rotterdam, whether or not fed by his colleague from Amsterdam, must fear a disturbance of public order in his municipality, and then he can ask the mayor of Amsterdam to take a decision on his behalf as well. But it doesn't say that. It's about the mayor giving the order having to have fear of disorder in that other municipality. That's inconsistent. I hope the Minister will be able to follow that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u140	I can follow very well, but I do not agree with Mr De Graaf on this point, for the following simple reason. When the mayor makes the decision, he doesn't take it on his own, he takes it on his behalf. So it is logical that he can only make that decision on behalf of the other person if he is convinced, on the basis of the information of the other person, that there is a fear of disorder in the other municipality. Otherwise, you can never come to such a decision. I understand that Mr De Graaf does not agree with that, but that is the only way to reach a legally enforceable decision under this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u141	Perhaps we can sum it up so that in such a situation there must be accumulation of serious fears of disorder. The municipality must also have that fear of serious disturbance on behalf of which the decision is taken, but the mayor who actually takes the decision must have it on his own, otherwise the mayor of the other municipality will have to make that decision himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u142	I think Mrs Van Bijsterveld is quite right. It is as I have said, even in the first term. I can imagine that such decisions are an exception, that you do so if you want to act adequately for someone in one situation, both from and at home, and in the other case the mayor of Rotterdam is much better able to make a decision himself, in which case it is not an integral decision together with the mayor of Amsterdam and the alignment is much more complicated. I think that this is a typical point, and Mr De Graaf has already said this, and we should look at it together in the evaluation. Perhaps it will never be used for practical reasons, or by then the doctrine De Graaf will have paid off and for that reason a different position will have to be taken. I don't know. I can't look in a glass ball.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u143	Against will and thanks, I am now drawn to zoom in on this article. I see the word "also" in paragraph 3. It seems to me that would add up. In the minister's example, the mayor of Amsterdam himself and independently must have found that in his own municipality, Amsterdam, there was misery with that person and that he is now also in that other municipality. In my view, therefore, this increase is already in place and there is no need to amend that article.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u144	I thank Mr Markuszower for his contribution. Nor do I intend to amend the article, regardless of whether it is very useful. But indeed, the word "also" indicates exactly what I say: it is the conviction of both communities that justifies making a decision also on behalf of the other municipality. Mrs Van Bijsterveld and others, like Mr Lintmeijer van GroenLinks and Mr De Graaf van D66, have asked: is it not an idea to delete that article now that the AMvB issue has fallen away from those private organisations? I have said about this in the first period, and I would like to remind Members that this article also means that a person who violates a stadium association or violates a contractual civil decision taken by another private organisation is at risk of being bound by public authority, by the mayor, by a conclusion. I would not like to have any further justification for this, in a law of sweeping, I would say to Mrs Van Bijsterveld, to delete that article simply because I do not know what its effect will be. Since the mayor can follow the stadium ban after careful investigation, it is then combined with a ban around the stadium if he is convinced on the basis of his own criteria that that is appropriate, I expect that this will increase the risk of a stadium ban and that for that very reason someone who intends to take vandalist action might be convinced not to do so. So I'm not sure it's any use. My proposal would therefore be to involve it in the evaluation. Then we can see whether Mrs Van Bijsterveld's concern can be taken away by the facts. If not, we have to say that it is indeed a superfluous article. But I can't draw that conclusion right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u145	I think it is difficult to claim that the risk of a mayor's order will increase after such a private sanction because the article will be in the law. Because that was always possible. The mayor's gonna have to make his own judgment anyway. In my opinion, the article came into the law because of the fact that there was an AMvB attached to it. That AMvB has been deleted and now the article is actually hanging in the air. I understand that you can come up with a construction that might help you explain that that provision still makes sense. But the truth is, of course, that this article just got up in the air. Will the Minister consider deleting this, possibly through a repair law? And if he doesn't, can he take it into the evaluation? If it turns out that the article does not work properly independently, he can delete it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u146	The latter seems to me to be the right and sensible way forward. I thank Mrs Van Bijsterveld for that suggestion. I'll take this into the evaluation. Then we will also see whether it has worked in my direction or whether Mrs Van Bijsterveld is absolutely right to say that this article has no independent value in the end. By the way, it is no problem that it is in the law, but it is also good to clean up. Otherwise, you're dealing with articles of law that aren't enforced. Mrs Bikker has challenged me to explain the government's policy on the mayor's position. I will do that very briefly. My colleague, the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations, aims to send a letter to the House of Representatives on the current role of the mayor in the autumn. In that letter, he will discuss the position of the mayor in the context of the discussion on the appointment of the mayor. He is doing this in response to the debate that I thought had already been held in both chambers on whether or not to include in the Constitution the way in which the mayor is appointed. Mrs Bikker also asked about the filing of first-offenders. It goes without saying that the file of a first offender will be thinner in the event of a first serious disturbance than the file of someone who has repeatedly been the subject of a measure. However, the file of a first offender must also contain an adequate description of the facts and the reasons on which the mayor's decision is based should be able to bear its own conclusions. If that is not the case, then there is no point in taking the measure, because it will not last. The dossier does not have to be too thick for that. I have already shown in the first period that simple camera images, certainly moving camera images, I am thinking of the Feyenoordrellen in itself can be sufficient to impose a measure as first offender on someone who has never been in contact with the mayor or justice and is also not known as football vandal. The behaviour we have seen in these riots justifies the fact that a measure is being taken, including in the case of first-offers. Mr Ruers asked about the suggestions of the NJB article. I also enjoyed the discussion about who had now paraphrased something. I too do not think it appropriate to make any suggestions as to who raised this first, let alone to express, from my role as Minister of Security and Justice, a value judgement on the esteemed scientists. One thing is certain: the writers present their proposal as a simple solution, but the article does give a very rosy picture of the powers of the mayors and seems to be quite simple about the importance of the connection between the area of a municipality and the competence of the municipality. With this in mind, I can imagine that, if you were to use your powers of reporting to prevent travelling abroad, the debate on the détournement de pouvoir is also lurking. Perhaps, as a result of the discussion in the Senate, the writers feel challenged to further underpin their perverted thoughts in a subsequent article. Mr Lintmeijer asked whether the WODC study could be extended to include the controlling task of the city council. I think I have just to sum up clearly that the agreed research sees the usability and applicability of the mayoral, majestic toolbox. The controlling task of the city council is then automatically outside the scope of the investigation. I would, of course, like to take this into account in the evaluation, because it fits in. We can then see how a city council deals with a mayor who makes use of these powers in the interests of public order and security. Mrs Bikker asked whether a broad evaluation could be carried out in 2020. On the basis of these points, I have already made it clear that this is indeed the case. I think we should, too. A comprehensive review of this law will therefore be carried out in 2020. I would like to thank Mrs Beuving for her compliments and, above all, for the communication that she will support the law. I'm very happy about that. I come now to the comments made by Mr Van Dijk on Haarlem. I would like to thank him very much not only for referring to my hometown, but also for referring to Godfried Bomans. I think it is appropriate that I, also on behalf of my predecessor Pieter Bas, thank Mr Van Dijk very much for his compliments. It is well known that Haarlem has now produced several Justice Ministers, as they were called at the time. I try to take as many examples as possible both to the previous speaker and to all other predecessors. I hope that here in the Senate this can count on as much enthusiasm, respect and appreciation as I have felt this evening. I would like to make one final comment, although I foresee that this cry of hearts will not be fulfilled. Mr President, if you were to decide to take the bill off tonight and not postpone it until next week's vote, the law could enter into force before the start of the new football season. However, I have an interest in your Chamber embracing the bill in broad terms. If the result of a vote this evening was to request a political group to make a note of this bill, I would prefer it to be put to the vote next week. In the event that everyone shares the importance of a timely introduction before the start of the football season, I suggest that you do not hold the vote next week. Then I can ensure that the law is published in the Official Journal before 1 July.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u147	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u148	I'm here to deal with the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That's the case. I am very sorry about your heart cry, Minister. In this case, I propose to vote on the bill next Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-9.u149	Before I close the sitting, I would just like to say that, unfortunately, because of sad personal circumstances, I have not been able to preside over the first part of this debate this afternoon. That's why I haven't been able to see the maiden speeches of four members of this Chamber. I'm very sorry about that. I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Van Dijk, Mrs Bikker, Mr Markuszower and Mr Lintmeijer on their maiden speech. They promise a lot for the future in this Chamber! The Minister was also present today for the first time in this Chamber. I'm sure we'll see each other again.
