ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u1	We shall begin with the first term of the Chamber in this budget debate. Everyone has indicated their speaking time in first and second terms. The first speaker is Mr Van Gerven, on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. "For the supermarket, a man collapses. I run over there, I can't feel a pulse, and the man's not breathing. I realize I have to resuscitate him, but against the guidelines, I'm gonna give him a hard punch on his chest first. Immediately afterwards I feel his heart beating again and the man takes a deep breath. I'm in a light victorious rod. I'm trying to reassure the man, tell him I'm a doctor and the ambulance's on its way. He looks at me and says groaning, "But I'm not going to the hospital, that's costing me my own risk!" According to my fellow house doctor Nanette de Ronde-Huizenga. How does the Minister feel about this? Isn't it time for a new and affordable healthcare system? On September 24th we were shocked by Nieuwsuur. The patients with spinal cord injury John Given and Michael Verhees would no longer receive the medicines specifically prepared for their situation from the health insurance companies VGZ and ONVZ. For a long time they had to beg for their medicine while the health insurance companies have large reserves. Disgrace all over the place. What a humiliating state! Due to all the commotion, both insurers have agreed to reimburse the medicines for John and Michael even after 2016. But what about all those other patients who need tailor-made medications? Do these people get the medicines that fit best in their individual situation? Or do the health insurance companies keep waving their calculators around? What is the result of the judge's ruling talking about a failure of CZ that refused to reimburse a medically necessary medicine? Is the bureaucracy of preferential policy finally being brought to an end? Isn't the health insurance company gonna sit on the doctor's chair anymore? Isn't it time for a new and affordable healthcare system? On 10 October 2015, Mrs K., the 41st MP of the VVD, as chairman of the Dutch Healthcare Authority, gave an interview in De Telegraaf. She even more enthusiastically defends the Health Insurance Act than our minister. The system would be better because care is more transparent, cheaper and efficient than the old sickness fund. But people no longer see the forest through the trees and even the Minister acknowledges that there are too many policies.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u3	We are now talking about the supervisor NZa. I think it is very inappropriate that the SP should be party politics and say something about the President of the NZa which is completely out of order. I would like Mr Van Gerven to take back his words.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u4	I would also very much appreciate that. In my view, the President advocated a debate on the substance today. So let us do the same. For your well-being: the 41st Chamber seat is used, but it is filled in by someone else.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u5	We'll move on, because I'll continue with the content. What about 71 different policies with a total of 5,940 options, while people just want one good basic package? And what about the differences between the poor policy and the rich policy, the free choice policy? The free choice policy is up to 40% more expensive. Is the freedom of choice of doctors only for the rich? Is that what we want? Isn't it time for a new and affordable healthcare system? Is it cheaper? Are people getting more value for money? The own risk, the disease tax or the penalty for being sick was introduced in 2008. In seven years it has grown more than two and a half times as high. The number of families with late payments in their health accounts has more than doubled since 2008. Next year the disease fee will be no less than €385 per adult. The package is thinned with physical therapy, medicines and mental health care that are no longer reimbursed. The number of people who can no longer pay the premium is higher than ever. Already there are 333,000. In addition, there are at least 800,000 people who make payment arrangements with health insurance companies. The health insurers themselves believe that the disease tax, its own risk, is far too high. The SP therefore proposes to halve its own risk for 2016 and to pay from the healthcare insurers' reserves. We will table a motion on this subject in the second term, unless the cabinet implements our proposal. The fixed premium will also rise again by a percentage, so that more people are expected to get into payment problems. And the health insurance companies bathed in wealth. In 2014, the large four "Achmea', CZ, VGZ and Menzis "B' made a total of 1.2 billion profits. Even under the strictest solvency requirements, there is an overreserve of 3 billion. Isn't it time for a new and affordable healthcare system? What is the response of the chairman of the so-called independent Dutch Healthcare Authority, Mrs K? "Of course we're not going back to the health insurance fund. That would be really unwise." What's she proposing? People have to take into account what can happen to them. If you buy a new car, you can assure him allrisk, but after a number of years, WA insurance is sufficient. Health insurance isn't car insurance, is it? With such a position, I ask the Minister, do you not address the essence of a solidarity-based care system if you take the principle of benefit and apply an individual risk selection to the policy you conclude? Does this not mean that expensive policies for the elderly and the disabled are created because they are most at risk? What if you don't have the means to choose and depend on the budget policy, the poor policy? Isn't it time for a new and affordable healthcare system? Last year, the SP tabled a motion asking the government to prepare for the implementation of the basic health insurance public. In addition to the SP, only 50PLUS and the Party for the Animals supported this motion. The Labour Party, the VVD, D66, GroenLinks, the CDA, the Christian Union and the SGP, but also the PVV, voted against. Again, I will table such a motion to see if the political elite is changing their minds in a year. How stark is the contrast between this political elite and what people think? The Dog surveyed the opinion on this issue. 60% of the respondents were in favour of a public health service. 25% were against. Nothing new, really, because we've known that for a long time. It is remarkable that a majority of the VVD voters are also in favour, namely 53%. 33% were against. By the way, the same story applies to the right-wing PVV. Two thirds to four fifths of its constituents do not agree with the way in which the group voted. The majority of society opts for a public system, without market forces and competition. This also applies to PVV and VVD voters. It is time for a new and affordable healthcare system.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u6	I hear Mr Van Gerven from the SP saying that they are in favour of this. I understand that, too. If you frame that the current system makes everything far too expensive and inaccessible and affects solidarity, it is logical that people choose a different system. However, I have looked at what was going on before this healthcare system was introduced. Last week, at a meeting, I was able to quote something from a written article in the Volkskrant from the late 1990s. It said that there was no human measure left in care, that there were no opportunities to do what you wanted and that production prevailed. That was a public system. We have just chosen a different system to ensure that quality is understood, that transparency is introduced. Does Mr Van Gerven agree with me that it is very easy to say things and that it is easy to choose if you are not sufficiently informed? What does it really say?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u7	First of all, I note that Mrs Dijkstra disqualifies those who vote. Apparently, the population is unable to determine what good care is and what system it prefers. It has been felt for years that there should be no competition in healthcare. A public organisation of the healthcare system has been chosen for years. Mrs Dijkstra says that it was about production in the 1990s. Thank you the cuckoo! This system of operations is based on competition and production.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u8	It is far from disqualifying those who judge care. However, we must say that many people do not have a good idea of what is going on in the care sector. I will come back to that in my contribution. I think it is very important to hear and let the patients hear much more. However, we must also look at the real situation. I note that, of course, we know that Mr Van Gerven thinks that what insurers are doing now will be better done by civil servants. I'm very curious.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u9	To deal with the latter, the SP is the par excellence of the party that says it should not be carried out by civil servants. It must be carried out by the professionals themselves, by the aid workers, the district nurses, the general practitioners and the specialists, together with the patient. But what happens now? Care has been taken from us. The system has been given away to private health insurers who cannot assess quality and quality. They only send out on the cheapest possible way to put care away. That's not the way the SP wants to go. We say that the patient should be at the centre. The health insurance provider must serve that purpose. He shouldn't sit in the doctor's chair and let the money rule.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u10	Mr Van Gerven, we agree that the patient should be at the heart of the matter. You quoted from an investigation. That's an interesting question. Is it also told to those people that a public system has the consequence of having to pay 6.1 billion extra premiums? You heard me right: 6.1 billion. Is that what those people were told? Are those people willing to bring that up, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u11	I wonder where that 6.1 billion came from.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u12	You presented your own plan. You haven't gotten to that yet, but I think it's okay if we talk about that. The transfer of your plan shows that this is going to cost 6.1 billion extra.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u13	I'll be on the plan in a minute. Our plan shows that the package is being made full, that the premiums are being made dependent on income, so that everyone can contribute according to capacity. It turns out seven out of ten families are making progress. Only the highest incomes are slowly contributing a little more, but that is a question of solidarity. I'm coming to the SP plan, "The care is ours." With this plan calculated by the Central Planning Bureau, the SP shows that a public and affordable healthcare system is possible. How? First of all, health insurers go into a public organisation, so that the money goes to the care and not to advertising and raising billions in reserves. The power of the health insurance companies is being broken. We are putting an end to the mess of policies, organised mistrust and bureaucracy by stopping market forces and competition. From competition we go to cooperation. The right to care is enshrined in law across the board, both nationwide and municipal. With our plan we repair what the cuts have ruined in home care, community care, daily spending and care and nursing homes. There will be a full basic package with physiotherapy, home care, dental care and mental health care. The premiums become income-dependent and we eliminate our own risk, the disease tax. The professionals will regain control of our care, along with the patient. I have two questions for the Cabinet, the Secretary of State and the Secretary of State. Is the plan proposed by the SP possible? Is the government prepared to implement this plan in the interests of our public health? I would now like to hand the plan over to the cabinet through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u14	Thank you. I will also see to it that the members of the Chamber are distributed so that everyone can be aware of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u15	Mr. Chairman. I continue with two terrible terms: Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership (TTIP) and Trade in Services Agreement, or TiSa. These are two trade agreements that endanger the future of Dutch care. The fact that this minister still believes in the blessings of the market, and that the SP wants to abolish competition and market forces, is nothing new. However, the Minister always indicated that the alternatives proposed by the SP are possible in a public healthcare system. It's just a political choice. However, we now hear disturbing noises from Brussels. While the Cabinet always reassures us in the much-discussed trade agreement TTIP that the concern is excluded from this, by means of another trade agreement, the so-called TiSa, we open the door wide to multinationals to take over Dutch care. And that is not all: it is also irreversible. A future social cabinet is thus presented with facts. The SP wants the government's firm commitment that trade agreements such as TTIP and TiSa will not affect the way we organise our care in the Netherlands and that we will at any time retain the possibility to reverse privatisations. I would also like the Minister's assurance that she will not take irreversible decisions. Also in the post-Schippers era it should be possible to organize the care public. It is also time to congratulate the ambulance staff in the Netherlands. Finally, there is a collective agreement on better pay and the abolition of compulsory night shifts for 57-plussers. The paramedics deserve this after months of action. Action pays, but there's more. In the summer, the House of Representatives received a letter from the minister of market forces about the future of ambulance services. In 2018, the current law expires and new legislation is necessary. The concern is not a market but the Minister seems to be giving gas on a dead end. As a promoter of the health insurance companies, she wants to find out whether the private health insurance companies cannot be made responsible for ambulance care. A survey by the SP shows that a large majority of ambulance personnel want to organize the ambulance public. Nine out of ten people see nothing in the impending procurement circus of the health insurance companies. Jan Franssen, VVD'er and former chairman of the Interprovincial Consultation, said it strikingly: Accidents do not affect market forces. Is the Minister prepared to investigate the public variant, whereby the municipalities or a national public organisation become responsible for ambulance care? Then there's the basic package. I told you, it's not full. For repair, the SP proposes two amendments to compensate for medically necessary plastic surgery to make people whole and medically necessary circumcisions for the treatment of pre-cancerous stages and recurrent urinary tract infections. As far as SP is concerned, these groups of patients deserve a full package. The Secretary of State may now think: this is going well, the minister of market forces is being dealt with. But I have to disappoint him. It's his turn now. From the VVD that demonizes the government and from a right-wing minister who has "the care is too expensive" as a mantra, you can expect them to tear down public care. But how bad should it be for a social democrat like this Secretary of State that he will go into history as the man who demolished the AWBZ, who demolished home care, who broke down the nursing homes and gave the district care to the health insurance companies, coupled with draconian cuts? Is the Secretary of State proud of that? Isn't it time for a more social policy? A man writes to us like this. My aunt, Mrs Aggie Scholtes is 88 years old and born and raised in Kloosterburen, a village on the Hogeland van Groningen, a few kilometers from the Wadden Sea. In this remote rural environment, her life has taken place. She is the youngest daughter of a family of nine children. All the brothers and sisters have died. She devoted her life to caring for her parents and then remained single. She leads a somewhat withdrawn life and has never left her native region. One can characterize her as a gentle and modest man who makes little demands. Until recently, she lived on her own. When things went wrong at home, a place was found in her own familiar surroundings in the form of a shelter in Huis Olde Heem in Kloosterburen, where she can get more care, safety and attention. She is lovingly treated by all volunteers, employees and the head of the care center and begins to thaw more and more after six months and to feel at ease. But on October 7th 2015, this abruptly comes to an end: Olde Heem has to close through the cuts. At best, she can go to Middelstum, 30 km away. How does the Secretary of State feel about this? Isn't it time for a more social policy? We hear from the Secretary of State that the transition from care and support from Rijk to municipalities has been controlled. The government tells us there's nothing wrong. But Mrs Scholtes is no exception. Every day we see poignant stories in the media and in our mailboxes. Those are stories of people who hardly or not get any care at all. We are now in a period where a generation of people feel too much for society. It is also a period of organised distrust. They're too expensive, the elderly. It's a time when people don't get pgb anymore, when people have to go to court to get some care, or just those few hours of domestic care, so they can still live at home. If it's not time for a more social policy, I'll ask the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u16	I hear the SP, as usual, raging against everything and anyone who cares. Mr Van Gerven presents his own plan here, but does not go into it further. He's just asking questions to the Secretary of State and the Secretary of State. I do have some questions about the SP's plan. The scheme proposed by the SP, in which it actually wants to go back to the old sickness fund, amounts to almost 30 billion for which the SP does not indicate any coverage at all. The great transitions, which Mr Van Gerven is now using very big words for, are not being reversed at all. The SP's plan states that it wants to abolish the pgb. Mr Van Gerven does not say that out loud, but that is clear in the pass-through. The Central Planning Office says that it is really a substantial destruction of employment. These are the SP's plans. They are big words, but Mr Van Gerven can't even explain it here. I'd like to hear from the SP what she thinks of her own plans. Does Mr Van Gerven even know that? Do we really have to take it seriously and do we have to go into it in the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u17	Mr Potters also does it: disqualifying society and putting people away as if they had no sense of care, as if they had no idea what would be best for society. We have expressed that opinion in our plan "The concern is ours." After all, care does not belong to health insurers, which is not bureaucrats. The care belongs to us, it belongs to us and to the aid workers. For example, it is said that our plan would be bad for employment. That's a neoliberal mantra that honors the Central Planning Bureau. But what are the facts? That 65,000 people have lost their jobs in the last two years. 65,000 jobs have been destroyed by the disastrous austerity policy. Our plan is to fix all these cuts. That's what tens of thousands of jobs are worth.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u18	The latter is total nonsense, because Mr Van Gerven really does not fix all the cuts. He wants to add some extra money, but it's not like he's reversing the biggest transitions and decentralisations. In my view, Mr Van Gerven should above all be honest with his own constituents. I do not disqualify people who worry about care at all, because that is also our concern. Mr Van Gerven cannot explain his own plan, but does give a sneer in the direction of the Central Planning Bureau. Those are neoliberals who don't know what to calculate. However, I believe that the CPB has clearly indicated that the SP plan is destroying jobs. So I have only one conclusion: Mr Van Gerven's story is crap. He's got a lot of shit in the room. That's too bad, because it's about care that concerns all of us. If Mr Van Gerven has guts, he defends his plan and knows what it says instead of just giving it to those who do care and work on it every day.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u19	I do not understand why, if the VVD wants to criticize the report, the facts are not taken into account. We're fixing all these cuts. There's been 3 billion cuts in long-term care. I advise the VVD to study the report again and then to come up with a real oppositional story if they think it is necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u20	Will Mr Van Gerven respond to two facts contained in the SP report? It says it costs jobs, but it's mainly about the pgb. I agree with Mr Van Gerven that it is the concern of people and care workers, but that whole report of 30, 40 pages does not contain the word 'pgb'. Can Mr Van Gerven respond to these two facts?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u21	The SP invests in care. There are billions more going to care when the SP plan "The care is ours" is implemented. Mr Van Dijk knows what happens when you invest in jobs. That leads to jobs. Our plan will create tens of thousands of jobs. We note that. What we also know for certain is that 65,000 jobs have disappeared in the last two years. Then there's the matter of the pgb. The SP does not abolish the pgb. In principle, we assume care in kind, because 90% or more of the people benefit most from this provision. For a small category, for which care in kind is not sufficiently tailor-made, we keep the pgb in hand. So we are not abolishing the pgb at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u22	I would ask the questioners, as well as Mr Van Gerven, to be brief.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u23	I note that the report states that it costs jobs, but I would like to ask a follow-up question on the issue of pgb. I understand from Mr Van Gerven that the SP report is not quite ready, because the pgb has not yet been mentioned. The report is therefore still being amended accordingly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u24	No, the report is made up of building blocks. It clearly indicates the direction, but it does not contain all aspects of care. Mr. Chairman. Is it true that Mr Van Dijk has just said something? Can he repeat what he said in front of the microphone?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u25	No. We're doing interruptions in two. You were working on your answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u26	Well, I guess I'll do it. I've heard the word "chooser deception."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u27	No, no...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u28	Okay, then that's not said.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u29	Mr Van Gerven, please continue and do not put words in your mouth.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u30	With regard to the personal budget, I have expressed the position of the SP. We do not say anything in our report to the detriment of the personal budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u31	I would like to know more about the position of the SP on the pgb. Mr Van Gerven just said that his group is concerned in kind and that people, where they do not, opt for the personal budget. Who decides whether to opt for care in kind or for the personalised budget?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u32	That's basically up to the care provider or the care facility, along with the patient. In about 90% or more of the cases care in kind is sufficient. Why does the SP attach to that? Many people, especially the elderly, are not waiting for the whole organization around a pgb, which brings with it a lot of red tape. They just want good help. If that can be organized properly, we must do so. I think that's by far the most pleasant for most people. There is a category of parents with very severely disabled children, for example, belonging to this category of children, which requires so much tailor-made work that they want and can organise themselves. For this category, this is a very good alternative to care in kind.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u33	The SP says that the healthcare provider basically, but in consultation with the patient, determines whether a pgb is chosen. That's the wrong order, isn't it? It's the patient's idea, isn't it?! If, for example, the patient, the older lady, says that he wants care in kind, that makes sense and needs to be properly arranged. The choice should initially lie with the patient. I would very much like the SP to confirm that the SP sees this as well, because otherwise the SP and GroenLinks disagree on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u34	We think it should be in conjunction. The pgb has often been abused because there was no money for care in kind. The settings then said that you will be helped if you take a pgb. We think that's a very wrong route. The money should not be the obstacle to either care in kind or the personalised budget. We note that this has happened in the past and that it has given people a personal budget that was not awaiting it. We want to prevent coûte que coûte. Furthermore, our view is that it must be a collusion. Someone may have an idea, but that has to be tested by those who provide care. This really has to be a match, because... if you don't mind, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u35	Well, actually, I want Mrs Bergkamp to ask a question, because she's at the microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u36	It's gonna be really interesting what the SP is saying right now. So far it has been a bit unclear what the SP wants with the personal budget. Now it becomes clear that the SP has a preference for care in kind and that the pgb is determined by the aid provider instead of by the client. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u37	No, that's not true, because it's got to be a match. However, we say that care in kind is the provision that most people are best helped with. This is also evident from practice. If everyone had a pgb, it would be very difficult and complicated to organise the care properly. The personal budget should be used for which it was intended: for that category of people, parents or patients, where current care in kind is not sufficient and cannot provide the care required.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u38	The story of the SP is contradictory. In the interrupting debates with my colleagues, the SP blames the client for not being taken seriously. At the cure is the story of the SP that determines the state and in the care the professional. I am afraid of this story, but I am glad that now it becomes clear what the SP wants with the personal budget. The SP wants to abolish it almost completely, except for a very small percentage, where the healthcare professional has to be in the lead. In this sense, I welcome this interruption debate, because it is becoming clear what the SP stands for in the personal budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u39	Mr Van Gerven, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u40	We're not saying the caregiver determines. We say it must be a interplay between patient and aid worker. We're looking together for the best way to provide aid. That will not be the personal budget in the majority of cases. The personal budget is not a goal. If you get a personal budget, it's not necessarily the best way to care. This is true in a number of cases, but not across the board.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u41	I can't really understand what the SP is putting forward. The spokesperson of the SP speaks loudly about the accessibility of the pgb, but at the same time he says: let us keep the pgb as small as possible. The SP also says "we want to give care back to people," but when the question comes up who decides on the pgb, the care professional is particularly concerned. I would like to get an explanation from the SP on what freedom of choice people really have when it comes to the care they need. Do we really want to return care to people?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u42	Care should be returned to the patients and thus away from the health insurers and the calculators. If you want to determine which care is good, that is a match between the aid worker and the patient; nothing more and nothing less.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u43	We have had many debates with each other on the personal budget. It has always been said that those who need care are in the lead. In the end, they know best what quality of care is. The SP never contradicted that. In fact, the SP has always underlined that. But now the SP says: we want to keep the pgb as small as possible and we want the care professional and the care institution to be in the lead. Then what are our efforts worth working towards personal funding? It is seen Chamberwide as a solution to improve the quality of care. Then this must be an abomination for the SP, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u44	The SP doesn't want to keep the personal budget as small as possible, not at all. We don't say that either. We say, however, that it is only a means to the benefit of a small group that needs care. That is what we are saying, nothing more and nothing less.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u45	Specifically, there are now about 140,000 budget holders. How many of them will be allowed to have a pgb and how will the SP arrange this? Now it says in the law that someone who wants his or her care in the form of a pgb gets this too. Does it say about the pgb in the law: you get a pgb if the health care provider thinks it's a good idea?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u46	That's not what we're saying. We say: it is an interplay between the aid worker and the patient or the parents of the child in question. Nothing more and nothing less. It always is. Take the example of the general practitioner who proposes a certain treatment for a patient. Then there's a meeting, isn't there? Then it's not like the patient says "sister and so on," and that's it? A professional also has its standards and standards. Let me be a little patronizing. Of course, that's kind of in my nature as an old household doctor. Sometimes you have to protect people from certain things, which you know for sure: it's not going to be. Then it is not money that should be the starting point, but the question: what does that person or family need in this specific situation? It is an interplay and not a dictation of the aid worker.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u47	Then the pgb-holder has absolutely nothing to do with the SP today. Now it is settled: if the care is of good quality and if I say as a future budget holder that I want that care through a personalised budget, then I get it. In the world of SP, that is going to be different. The health care provider, the professional must believe that a pgb is a good instrument. With this the SP leaves the budget holder completely in the cold.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u48	The 140,000 budget holders who are here today have nothing to fear from the SP if they are currently given the care that is good for themselves or for their child. The SP doesn't say that at all. We are just saying that by far the largest group has been best helped with care in kind. That does not at all rule out the fact that a particular category of people has a personal budget as a good alternative, because they do not come out with care in kind. We are for good care in kind, but with that group for which a pgb is really needed, we also have the good for.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u49	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u50	We're doing interruptions in two.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u51	I get it, but the SP is extremely patronizing in this and it's good to see that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u52	We're doing interruptions in two. Mr Potters has the floor, and then Mr Van Gerven continues his speech, I would like to propose. Very briefly, Mr Potters.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u53	I believe that this debate has resulted in the SP showing its true face. I had asked two questions in my first interruption. What about those 30 billion transition costs that have been passed on? What good would it do if we went back to the old health insurance system? How is Mr Van Gerven going to cover that and where has he made funds available for that? My second question is: what does Mr Van Gerven think of the qualification of the Central Planning Bureau? He calls that plan dramatic for employment and says: this is really bad, you shouldn't do this. Does Mr Van Gerven actually say that we are no longer taking the Central Planning Bureau seriously? Then from now on, he won't have to send his plans there to get them passed on. Or does he want to learn from it and admit it might not be a good plan after all?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u54	I'll start with the last one. The Central Planning Office states that if you expand and repair the care sector through income-dependent premiums, it would be at the expense of employment. That's just a statement, but it's not proven. It has been proven, however, that if you cut 3 billion on healthcare as recently happened, it has cost 65,000 jobs. The SP disagrees with the Central Planning Bureau in that respect. We're not all alone in that, by the way. Finally, I would like to say a few words about this. The CPB made that remark, but we agreed that this was not fully worked out, because we wanted the figures. We simply do not agree with the CPB on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u55	What is it? I have a report from the SP, passed through the Central Planning Bureau. Mr Van Gerven goes shopping freely and thinks that he has submitted a good plan. However, the CPB is very critical of one point, namely employment. That seems to me to be an important part of the SP. Then he says: that doesn't really suit me, so I don't take that part seriously. I wouldn't let any more plans be passed on and just keep believing in my own utopia and thinking that I can make the world work. The Central Planning Bureau has been critical and I am very disappointed that Mr Van Gerven is going to distance himself from it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u56	We believe in a world that can be made. The world is made of people, made of people, with people, and it can be. It's just a political choice. That's one. Two: the Central Planning Bureau can count well and we have also asked to calculate what happens if we make the premiums dependent on income. It has shown that seven out of ten families are making progress, that their own risk, which virtually everyone is opposed to, can be eliminated, that everyone can get a full package and that the 3 billion, which is severely cut off from long-term care, can simply be repaired. No problem. Seven out of ten families are making progress on the current situation. Look what we're all getting in return for that. Chapeau, I'd say. Join us, embrace that proposition. Just the 30 billion transition costs. The SP says: we transform the health insurance companies into a national health insurance scheme and in order to achieve this transformation, we simply use the reserves that are now well available. There is now over 9 billion to a large extent rusting. That money is needed for certain risks. In our system, it becomes impossible for that public health insurance company to go bankrupt. Then the reserves that are now rusting, which is now dead premium money, can be invested in care. In our case, we use that money to rebuild the system into a public social system.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u57	Mr Van Gerven, please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u58	Isn't it time for a more social policy? The Secretary of State is not surprised at the increased number of lawsuits. That's part of the job, he says, when you make changes. He then blames the municipalities for the increase between his nose and his lips. What do you mean controlled? A period of care stops in home care and forced removals of elderly people, because care homes close and at the same time are severely reduced in home care. A period in which terminal care is at stake and the number of confused people in society increases due to too fast bed dismantling in the ggz. A period in which more and more people are no longer able to pay for their care costs, but also a period of wage dumping and a period in which 65,000 healthcare workers were sent out. Isn't it time for a more social policy? In the past year, the Secretary of State has been warned several times. The General Court concluded that its cuts are not feasible. The Ombudsman is destructive of the pgb-chaos organised by the Secretary of State. 85% of Dutch people do not want cuts in healthcare and more than 700,000 people signed a petition for better care. However, this Secretary of State does not care and blames others. Steady distance and ten fingers on the wrist, that's what the Secretary of State calls it. Look away and drop the patient, that's what I call it. The cuts, dictated by Brussels, seem to be above the people. This cold bureaucrat does not live up to his promises of better care, while he already has two motions of mistrust on his pants. If it's not time for a more social policy, I'll ask the Secretary of State. It seems that money is not the problem, given that this cabinet succeeds in applauding 5 billion while the care is being created. Is he prepared to take the cuts on the Wmo off the table, based on the principle that money should follow the need for care? Financial thresholds, whether they are their own risk, the disease tax or their own contribution, do not ensure that those who need care most receive that care. They make sure that the people with the smallest scholarship give up care first. One in five people sometimes get rid of care because of the money. This is a threat to the health of, in particular, the lower income groups, where each euro counts. This can lead to growing socio-economic differences and health inequalities that are already huge. General practitioners and other healthcare professionals see these consequences every day. For example, patients want to be referred to the hospital less quickly and refuse additional first-line diagnostics or an STD test purely because of the costs involved. They must choose between their own health and paying rent. Can both rulers respond to this? Is the government prepared to launch a financial implementation test on the sustainability of its own contribution in the Wlz and the Wmo and its accumulation with its own risk? The current system, aimed at competition, increasing turnover and making profits, brings out the bad in people. Figures indicate that goodwill in general practitioners is again a fact in one out of three practices that are transferred. Is the Minister prepared to make this impossible and criminalize it? Is the Minister prepared in the year of transparency to oblige healthcare institutions to make public the declaration behaviour of directors and supervisory boards? Whoever has nothing to hide is accountable, right? Society has the right to know if there are any declarations among our care professionals. We are faced with an important choice in care. Are we going on the path of market forces, competition, scaling up, increasing power towards health insurers, profit thinking and increasing payment problems of more than 1 million people already? Or do we opt for a system based on solidarity, with income-dependent premiums, cooperation, where the money doesn't rule, but the patient's need is starting point? It is clear that the SP chooses the latter. The concern is ours.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u59	Mr. Chairman. In the first part of the budget debate, with a focus on joint decision-making and quality of life, I will focus on those issues that mainly concern curative care. My colleague Sjoerd Potters will then discuss long-term care. Whether we want it or not, at some point in our lives, we're dealing with care. There's only one thing that matters to everyone at the time: if you're sick, you want to get better as soon as possible. If you are dealing with a disability or disability due to an accident or illness, you want to continue to decorate your life as much as possible. In all cases, despite a disease or disability, you want to maintain your own quality of life as much as possible. That shows Marloes, too. At a young age, she suffered a spinal cord injury. She grew up to be a self-conscious woman who is now working as an expert at rehabilitation center Roessingh in Enschede. The way this young woman helps others is fantastic. The use of care workers and scientists also gives reasons to be optimistic. Innovation makes us discover new techniques and treatment methods every year. Very cool is the future perspective in the message from the VUmc that with one drop of blood cancer can be detected more quickly. What couldn't have been done ten or twenty years ago can be done tomorrow. Giving up is not an option! At the same time, all these new opportunities also bring with them new dilemmas and challenges. Because we in the Netherlands have rightly and wisely chosen a healthcare system in which healthy people show solidarity with people who become ill, there is always a tension between availability and affordability of care. Sometimes we're patients, sometimes we're caregivers, caregivers, or worried family members. But we're always bounty-payers. If we lose sight of the balance between availability and affordability, we risk undermining solidarity between healthy and ill. As a liberal, I am proud of the solidarity in our healthcare system. The financial difference between healthy and sick is never higher than the level of one's own risk. It doesn't matter if you work as a cleaner or own a cleaning company: at the hospital doctor you can rely on exactly the same care. For the VVD that's a big good. This minister has managed to grow the basic package in recent years by making good agreements with health insurers and care providers about the increase in healthcare costs. We have managed to bring the strong growth of healthcare costs more into line with economic growth in a sensible and economical way. The VVD also considers this important for the support base. Every euro we spend on care is valuable. If care were to grow unbridled, other public spending would be replaced. This is not only a responsibility of the government, but also of insurers, directors and healthcare professionals. Care is not improved by sticking to the established order and interests, but by continuing to focus on an affordable, accessible and broad basic package for all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u60	What the VVD is doing here is well known: once again the mantra lays down that the care is too expensive and that it becomes priceless. That's just a lie. Care in the Netherlands develops in terms of costs comparable to those in the neighbouring countries. It's just a political choice whether you're willing to do it. I would like to put the following question to Mr De Lange. Does he agree that the money should follow the need?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u61	The VVD agrees with the fact that we have a very good health system in the Netherlands. We're proud of that, too. The same lists as those to which Mr Van Gerven refers point again and again. We're just doing well in the Netherlands. This should also be said more often in Parliament. Of course, we are doing well because we are giving the room within this system to improve quality. The quality is always paramount for the VVD and the space for this is offered. The VVD focuses on a broad basic package and on the fact that space is being created for all those possibilities, innovations and techniques that we are so pleased with. You make choices to eventually keep the system going. That is: working in a good way to ensure good care, in a way that pays healthyly for sick people and that people receive the same treatment. We stand for this solidarity and this broad basic package.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u62	That's not an answer to my question. We can see that this cabinet, led by the VVD, is cutting back on health care. In its entirety, it amounts to up to 6 billion: 3 billion on long-term care and 3 billion less growth, as we always say, of curative care. Should I quote a colleague of Mr De Lange's now not follow the substance of the money? Shouldn't we all first identify what is needed for health care, for a good basic care for everyone, instead of turning it around, as the VVD does? He says: the care is too expensive, cut it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u63	I have to say again that Mr Van Gerven does not have his figures in order. Next year, care costs will just rise. There is still additional investment in healthcare. This can only be done because the changes in the system give rise to the possibility of keeping care costs manageable. The VVD stands for the wide package. Those possibilities are still there. Mr Van Gerven is not right. Next year there will still be more money going to health care, and that is well spent money.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u64	Mr De Lange continued his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u65	Just when you're proud of the results of our healthcare system, you have to dare to be critical of unwanted side effects. Whoever you've been talking to in health care over the past few months, it was soon about the administrative burden and the regulatory burden. Part of it can be explained. For example, we have all kinds of specific demands in terms of quality and transparency. However, it is essential that we strike a good balance between the many specific wishes on the one hand and the regulatory burden and administrative burden on the other. This year the Minister has declared the Year of Transparency. The results show that it works and that a movement has started among all those involved in the care. Is it an idea to proclaim 2016 as the Year of Less Rules and More Trust? I would like an preferably positive response from the Minister. Systems are there for people, not the other way around.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u66	The CDA has been calling for six years for us to have fewer rules and more confidence. Why does the VVD only come up with this bright idea for this minister in the fifth year of government?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u67	In any case, I am pleased to note that Mrs Bruins Slot calls the idea of the VVD luminously and wants to embrace it. Let's do business. This is a clear call, supported by the CDA and the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u68	Why is it five years before the VVD finally realizes that we need to do something about reducing the rules in the care after many amendments and motions have been tabled? Why do you come to this understanding so late?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u69	The nice thing is that the way you ask the question makes it clear to me that this subject has been going on in the Chamber for a long time and that the VVD has always advocated reducing it where rules can be reduced. That is in our liberal nature. We love a small government and less rules. It seems to me to be a good thing, and that is what the Year of Transparency has taught us to focus. Hence the proposal. I'm glad you're supporting this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u70	A great plan to do something about the many rules that healthcare providers and clients have to deal with! Now, let's get this straight. Health insurers are also a major culprit when it comes to rules. They always come up with their own questions and their own rules. Does the VVD think that something should be done about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u71	The answer to this is: yes, it applies to all parties. When you put them together, you seem to be able to take nice steps. Healthcare insurers also have a role to play.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u72	I am very pleased with this advanced insight. Last year, when dealing with the VWS budget, the VVD mainly laid the ball down with the caregivers. They, in particular, had to be dealt with. I now understand that the VVD also says that we should also do something about the health insurance companies. They must stop making their own demands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u73	Mrs. Voortman, you shouldn't narrow it down to one group. The stake is you do it together. All parties within the care are responsible for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u74	This was the year of transparency in healthcare. Of course transparency is a part of accountability, but let us indeed ensure that there is no overkill of bureaucracy. The Christian Union's proposal is to make next year, the year 2016, the year of trust and to give confidence and return to the healthcare professionals. Does the VVD support that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u75	The proposal was: less rules and more trust. I am therefore pleased that this proposal at least reflects your wish, because I believe that trust is the basis for less regulation. So I share that; we now also have the support of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u76	Let us then work together on this, because I see now that the burden of care is caused by an overload of bureaucracy. It's very important that the trust goes back to the care professional. I'll leave in the middle who supports who, but let's stick together in this: the year of trust, 2016.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u77	Mr De Lange continued his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u78	Systems are there for people, not the other way around. This awareness is not always sufficient for health insurers and carers. As contributors, we are first and foremost customers of the health insurance company. As patients, we also rightly want to be seen and treated as people. Where you went to the doctor in the past for a diagnosis and the associated treatment, we now step into the treatment room armed with apps, Google and a wealth of public information. For a doctor, it's gonna be hard sometimes. We have access to all the information, but we do not necessarily have the knowledge to value that information. However, we, as patients, have the right to talk about the treatment we have to undergo and the risks and consequences. "That's how we're gonna do it," Jannie Oskam was told by her doctor after the diagnosis of breast cancer. In her book, she makes it abundantly clear that this must and can be done differently. For the VVD, together deciding is one of the most important movements in the care. If we allow patients to decide with a doctor on the treatment that fits best, we direct the patient. As a human being, you literally have an influence on your own quality of life. In several places in our country, shared decision making tools are now used to enable patients to choose the treatment that best suits their situation. Good examples of this are the use of decision-making help at ivf or the chief listening officer at Radboudumc in Nijmegen. Last Friday, oncologist Miriam Koopman gave me the opportunity to experience how incredibly important it is that you, as a patient, are included in the different choices. She made it clear that sometimes a patient has seen dozens of medical professionals and has undergone interventions before a moment of reflection on the further treatment takes place. That reflection is essential: then you get the opportunity to give your emotions a place, process the huge amount of information and work with your treatment team on treatment options that fit the quality of life you have in mind. In a recent letter on Together Decising, the Minister outlines three main obstacles to be solved based on inspirational practical examples: linking ICT systems, experienced barriers to procurement and financing structures and the desired cultural change. The VVD supports the proposals to break and remove barriers of this kind. However, the VVD also wants to see if we can go a step further. In doing so, the VVD would like to see Together Deciding firmly included in the medical guidelines and protocols used to ensure that each patient receives the treatment that suits him or her. Deciding together should be as normal as taking your blood pressure. Would the Minister respond to this and would she like to indicate how concrete actions can be taken for the whole of concern to make the decision together part of the directives? How do you make sure this gets real power of expression? Together Deciding, taking direction about your own life, certainly include the time and space that you sometimes need to think about the consequences of the stated diagnosis, the treatment options and the quality of life resulting from it. Since last year there has been the viewing and listening consultation and the time-out. Answers show that there are no concrete figures on their use yet. Signals do show that this is not yet sufficiently bought in by insurers and that in practice it is still not well known to doctors and patients. That's gotta be better. What are the options for taking steps to this end? What actions are being taken? Can the inclusion of Together Deciding in the medical guidelines ensure that these developments are accelerated? I'd like a response from the Minister. Because we consider the direction and quality to be so important, I also have a link here with the independent family confidants in mental health care. They are increasingly working with municipalities to ensure that people can stay at home in their familiar environment for as long as possible. In doing so, they make an important contribution to an ambition expressed by this cabinet, because ultimately people prefer to live in their own homes. Is the Minister prepared to lighten the budget for the family confidants so that a nationwide network can be set up and municipalities placed in a position to take on the role of director? I am preparing an amendment together with the Labour Party to make this possible. If you, as a patient together with the doctor, choose a treatment that best suits you and your situation, you can trust that treatment will work. What is effective is unfortunately not yet known in all cases. The initiative Meetbaar Beter is very inspiring. It was once specifically developed by the Cardiology department of the Catharina Hospital in Eindhoven, because the cardiologists wanted to improve themselves further by comparing results. In the meantime, Meetbaar is better implemented in many heart and intervention centres in our country. Many cardiologists have worked on this and they are now increasing their knowledge of the treatment they carry out. It looks not only at the direct effect of treatment, but also at the longer-term health benefits and the effects of treatment on the quality of life. By comparing the results between them, we continuously examine which method is best for medical results and for the quality of life. New insights are being implemented quickly. This is a method that, in the opinion of the VVD, deserves broad imitation. As far as we are concerned, it is also applied in other areas of care. The patient should be at the centre of the decision-making process. He or she must be able to count on receiving the treatment that is demonstrably effective. In addition to the potential risks associated with each treatment, the potential health benefits are also of great importance. I would like to hear from the Minister how this will be taken into account in policy. How do we ensure that the inspiring Meetable Better of cardiologists is also used by other medical professionals? The VVD believes that insight into the effectiveness of treatment is of great importance. That is why, last year, when dealing with the budget, it ensured that EUR 1.5 million was allocated to systematic research into the extent to which treatments are effective. Can the Minister state the status of this investigation? Will it indicate whether this research can be taken on a wider scale in order to better assess the effectiveness of treatments in other areas? Can it be taken into account how the difference between men and women and the influence of old age will get a place in this? In the meantime, have the health insurance companies provided the co-financing they wanted? Last year this was still a matter of discussion so that even more important research can be carried out into non-effective treatments and can be carried out more quickly on treatments that are effective? The effectiveness of treatments brings me to the topic of innovation in healthcare. I mentioned earlier the multitude of apps and information with which the patient enters the surgery. However, I also see very practical activities of entrepreneurs who see opportunities to improve healthcare in the Netherlands and beyond. For example, I spoke to the experienced optometrist, Rien, who efficiently and easily accessiblely investigates the eyes for signs of diabetes in the Rotterdam region. As a result, the ophthalmologists there can again deal with the really complicated diagnosis and the waiting times in the waiting room of the hospital are less long. If we give these entrepreneurs, but also the healthcare professionals, space, innovation and high-quality concepts get off the ground faster. Fortunately, the budget states that further steps are being taken in the field of e-health. This raises the question of whether the Minister can provide an inventory of the laws and rules that hinder innovation. What specific objectives are being set to remove these obstacles? In particular, I would like to draw attention to the Heartsafe Living Initiative. This aid system is linked to all emergency rooms, with now 20,000 volunteers who can be on site quickly to assist in resuscitation or cardiac arrest. Mr Van Gerven began by saying how important this is. Pending the ambulance, these volunteers will start CPR. This doubles the chances of survival. You will be told correctly: a doubling of the chances of survival. The 47-year-old father Koen is still alive because his neighbors were on the scene within two minutes when he unexpectedly went into cardiac arrest. Fortunately, Koen did not suffer any permanent damage due to the rapid action of his neighbors. It would be fantastic if we could make this initiative work throughout the Netherlands. In addition to the possibility of resuscitation, this also offers the possibility to use this well-trained volunteer pool in other calamities where medical assistance helps. I would therefore like to ask the Minister whether she is prepared to release a contribution of EUR 1 million in order to roll out this initiative nationwide. On this point, too, I have an amendment in preparation. Before I finish my part in this budget debate, I would like to make two brief points. Innovation brings many new opportunities, but new treatments and medicines are often expensive. At the beginning of my contribution, I stressed the importance of a good balance between availability and affordability in ensuring solidarity. I therefore support the Minister's attempt to reduce the price of expensive medicines in cooperation with other European Member States. In the opinion of the VVD, the recently introduced lock is also a good development. This measure does not relieve health insurers and carers of the obligation to make clear agreements on the new treatment and medicines to come. For the VVD, therefore, the care obligation of the health insurance provider also weighs heavily. Financial motivations of health insurers or carers cannot and should not affect the decision taken by the patient and the doctor together in the meeting room.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u79	I fully agree with Mr De Lange that it is important that good measures are really taken in the short term for expensive medicines. Mr De Lange spoke very positively about the lock on expensive medicines. Have we not actually fallen into an old marking trick of the pharmaceutical industry? How does Mr De Lange view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u80	I'm looking at that more positively. This now offers the possibility of getting resources on the market sooner. The pharmacists shall ensure that those funds are made available. You're gonna depend on it. I am very glad that these resources will be available. That's being arranged through the lock now. So I'm optimistic about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u81	For many years, pharmaceutical companies have put free funds on the market. People turn to it and then the pharmaceutical companies asked for high prices for it. Actually, we're doing the same thing with the lock. The minister had previously had good policies in which many more medicines were better reimbursed. Then, to use an expensive word, a post-calculation came. Why don't we go back to that better policy where much more resources were reimbursed? Even more people can benefit from it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u82	I think it's good that the lock method is there. However, we must look at how the pricing of medicines is achieved. That is the broader theme that the VVD likes to support. What mechanisms are in place to ensure transparency and to keep medicines affordable and accessible? We have to agree on this in Europe. We also support that agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u83	We always look with an open eye at opportunities that lead us to keep expensive medicines available. Now that there are those resources and the lock offers this opportunity, we are very happy to give the people in that situation those medicines. That's important.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u84	Recently, the VVD launched a plan with a lot of bombs to reduce the care for asylum seekers. Your group chairman made a slight mistake with a number of examples that were not included in the package. That might show a bit of the expertise within the VVD about the care. Let me tell you what's in the package for an asylum seeker. An asylum seeker gets the same package as a Dutchman. A Dutchman pays for that, but an asylum seeker gets it for free. An asylum seeker also pays no own risk or contribution. On top of that package, the asylum seeker receives the first twenty physiotherapy treatments completely free of charge. A chronically ill Dutchman has to pay for it himself, but the asylum seeker gets it for free. This also applies to contraception, hearing aids, glasses, a rollator and maternity care. All this is free for the asylum seeker, while the Dutchman has to pay his own contribution. Do you think this is sober?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u85	Mrs Klever, you have heard the plan, but you have shown that you have not fully understood the plan. We need to distinguish between people entering as refugees and status holders. The VVD calls for medical care to be provided. In the plan of the VVD this also applies to the status holders. That's the austerity that has to take place. That plan is now in place and Secretary of State Dijkhoff has started working on it. We'd like to wait for the proposals. In the plan, we have made it very clear that we are dealing with medically necessary care.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u86	I've read your plan. In your plan only the illegals receive medical care. The asylum seeker gets in the VVD's plan just the whole package, plus a little more. The Netherlands therefore has a sober package and the asylum seeker has a superdeluxe package. That's the VVD's plan. You love it too! When do you stand up for the Dutchman? When do you say the Dutchman must have a luxury package? When are you really going to lose care of asylum seekers, not only in words but also in deeds?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u87	Mrs. Klever, you won't be surprised that I'm excited about VVD plans. My whole argument is based on the fact that we have a very nice healthcare system in the Netherlands. We want everyone to have that broad basic package. We want this to remain possible for everyone. In the plan we argue for a certain degree of austerity. The plan sets out proposals for strict medical care. These proposals are now being further developed. We'd like to follow that. It seems to us a good idea to look at it with a sober look.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u88	Mr De Lange is right to talk about innovation. However, I regret that innovation is very quickly about apps and e-health, while it is about a very broad spectrum. Mr De Lange also gave examples of practical solutions to optometrist and ophthalmologist. That is an important point. However, his contribution does not address the role of health insurers and their procurement policies. How does the VVD aim to ensure that health insurers also have a role in bringing innovative solutions into healthcare?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u89	Fortunately, we see many examples that health insurance companies are investing and innovating in this care. I have already looked at the effectiveness of treatments and medicines, and it is indeed important that health insurers also have a role to play in this by paying for them. Fortunately, therefore, we are seeing more and more examples of health insurers participating in this innovation. They also see their interests and their opportunities, and they are very often a partner in them. I agree with Mr Kuzu that this is important, because this is how we get further innovations. So I do not share the view that health insurers do not play any part in this at all at the moment. Luckily, they take responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u90	It is true that it is happening rather slowly, but of course there must be much more when it comes to the role of health insurers in this whole. Mr De Lange referred to the role of health insurers in medicines. However, in the example of optometrists and ophthalmologists, an example he gave himself, it is precisely the health insurers who are responsible for buying good care. That has everything to do with the system we're in. Mr De Lange praises this system, he gives an example of optometrist and ophthalmologist, but at the same time he realizes that the system we have now agreed makes it very difficult for the health insurance provider to make that innovative move he wants?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u91	That is precisely the beauty of the system: we put health insurers in the position to do the shopping. So they also look very closely in the market what is for sale. At a time when an optometrist can see in a very good way whether or not you have diabetes, health insurance companies are also very willing to include it in the purchases. So I think this is going to be a discussion about a change in the medical sector itself. Let's keep working on innovation. Finally, I would like to address a subject which is very closely linked to the long-term care that my colleague Sjoerd Potters is about to address. Because we live longer and longer, we are also increasingly confronted with a build-up of chronic diseases. In a conversation with GPs and practitioners in Hengelo, it appeared visually that this requires specific care and attention. Half of people over 75 years of age have more than one chronic condition or suffer from different ailments. This is still not taken into account in the care sector. It is still too common for people to receive medicines that inhibit the action of other medicines. I would like to know from the Minister what possibilities she sees for preventing a wrong combination of medicines or treatments in patients dealing with multiple diseases. With your permission, Mr. Chairman, it's time for long-term care.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u92	But not after Mrs Voortman van GroenLinks first gets the floor for an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u93	I would like to come back to the little debate between Mrs Klever and Mr De Lange.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u94	Are you sure?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u95	Yeah, I'm sure. After all, I have a very enlightening question. Mr De Lange indicated that he wanted the care of status holders to be limited to the necessary care. So that means that this concern is less than that of other people. Isn't it true that status holders are just paying contributions?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u96	There's a separate system for that. Within that separate system, that is settled.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u97	It may be that I am mistaken, but I think that from the moment he or she has a status he or she gets a social housing at least for the time being, the VVD wants to change that and a benefit. That's why he or she's just paying bounty, I think. It may be that I am mistaken, but does Mr De Lange at least share the principle that those who pay the premium should simply receive the same care as those like him and me who pay the premium? If we agree on this, at least that is a clear point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u98	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u99	Mr. Chairman. I think that there is no other subject that has been discussed so often and so intensively in the House of Representatives in recent years than long-term care. As far as the VVD is concerned, that is a good thing. Where our curative system that can be counted among the world's top was quality and cost when it comes to long-term care, to put it mildly, out of balance. We've been champions in recent years when it comes to long-term care. In the coming years, we will have to do everything we can to ensure that we are going to be champions of quality. The VVD is therefore pleased that this year the new Wlz and the Wmo entered into force. We think it is important that people have the opportunity to stay at home for as long as possible in their own familiar environment, because living in an environment where you can feel at home makes an important contribution to the quality of life that people experience. The district nurse and the social district teams play an important role in this. At the same time, we take it for granted that we look at each other as people. It is just to ask people to organize part of the support themselves with the help of family, friends or their surroundings. If that doesn't work, they should always be able to go to the municipality. For people who cannot stay at home in their familiar environment, impact on their own quality of life is much more difficult to realize. We have been talking for years about the quality of nursing homes, where the good examples are frequently discussed. At the same time, we see that nursing homes and nursing homes, where quality of life, satisfaction and even medical care are lagging behind, are not taking sufficient steps to make the much-needed catch-up. The VVD wants to get rid of the non-committality of mentioning good examples but not be raised to a standard, because all those nursing homes that we praise every year because they show that they can, are covered by the same laws and the same funding structure as those that apply to the institutions that are lagging behind. So it's possible. That is why we ask the State Secretary, together with the inspection, to set a new standard for the quality of nursing homes. I think we should look at what people want in particular.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u100	I also heard the idea of the VVD in the media. I have a few more questions about that. Is there supposed to be a fixed standard for every nursing home? I believe that Mr Potters' colleague has just indicated that 2016 should be the year of fewer rules. So I wonder how this plan will work in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u101	It is a question of quality of life in particular. We see that the twenty, thirty best performing nursing homes work in an extremely good and committed way. They place the quality of life at the heart of the world and can achieve enormous improvements with the same budget and the same rules. I'd really like that to be the norm. I'm asking the Secretary of State to make a big deal of that over the next two years. We often have discussions in the Chamber about good examples. And then we say, "That's what it's supposed to be." Then we're all going to take a look and then it's going to stick to those good examples, while within the system it's just possible to follow them. What matters is that customization is central. I'm not going to use a protocol to describe what quality of life should look like. Each institution can in principle determine that for itself. However, I see that a number of institutions have really taken on a major improvement in that quality of life as a primary task. I would like to use that as a standard for all nursing homes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u102	I share the objective that nursing homes should improve on this point. At least that applies to a number of nursing homes. That's what we see in all kinds of reports. However, I don't understand the story of raising it to standard. What does that mean in concrete terms? What do nursing homes make in practice? Is their subsidy dependent on that? What does that plan look like in practice?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u103	I think it is important that we all agree that this should be the norm. We have agreed on the tasks of the inspection. We have said that we need to look in particular at whether we are working in accordance with the medical protocols, whether all check-in lists are being worked out properly, while a lot of institutions say: give us room now; we are working to put the quality of life first. I want the inspection to say: these are the good standards, these are the good examples, so we want the rest to act. If an institution does not comply, it must be called upon to do so. I also believe that this could have consequences for the possible subsidy of an institution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u104	I am excited about Mr Potters' story, because we all come to places you think are: that's the way it should be. Those good examples should actually be the norm. Last year, during the debate on the quality of nursing homes, I tabled a motion to raise these good examples to the standard. Will Mr Potters join me in asking the Secretary of State what happened last year to that motion and where we stand on that matter?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u105	Yes, I am pleased that the PvdA Group supports this proposal. I would like to join Mr Van Dijk in this regard. I believe that other parties should also be given room for this. In my view, the aim is to put the standard at the heart of quality of life. That's the point. I intend to table a motion on this matter. If Mr Van Dijk so wishes, he may sign that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u106	Praise and bid has already begun in the first term. Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u107	The praise and bidding has begun, in the sense that last year the VVD voted against my motion, but I will leave that in the middle. The most important thing is that we ask what happened to what we want and what we see. Good examples are the norm, but what happened last year to make that more visible in practice?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u108	Fine, but I'm not so into looking back. We now have enough good examples, which we say should be the norm within the current system. So let us not just talk about these good examples. Let that be the norm, but when we talk about good examples in the future, we are talking about excellent examples as far as I am concerned. I would like to move away from the debate on the good examples. It's fine that we look at that, but this should just become the norm for all nursing homes in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u109	Extra money will be available next year for nursing homes, so they can make real work of investing in quality. That's good, but for the year after that, another cut is planned. We will take the extra money we put in the nursing homes next year away from them in 2017. Does the VVD want to work hard next year to get that cut off the table?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u110	This is a reflex in which a number of colleagues are shooting: money needs to be added or money is involved. No, this search for good examples has shown that many of these good examples perform much better with exactly the same budget. In my view, we should talk about how it is possible that one person is doing very well, whereas that is not the case for the other. I think that's because the good examples put the quality of life and the client at the centre. We both want to raise that to the standard, Mrs Dik-Faber and I. There is indeed more money going to the nursing homes. So that money can be spent on it, but it is not a financial issue. The question is what you put at the center. If the client is central, the quality of life is central, then you have the best examples.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u111	Agreed. Money doesn't say everything, but now nursing homes across the country are making plans to improve the quality of care. They've attracted people to that, too. Those plans are now being put on track. Last Saturday, I spoke to Sjaan, nurse in one of our nursing homes. Her story isn't unique. I told her I was okay with them betting on that renewal blow in the nursing homes, but the coalition money is gone the next year. She was scared of a hat. That goes for all the nursing homes I visit. That way they can't make policies. Next year, we're gonna add some money. The next year, that money's gonna go off again. Does the VVD want to make an effort to get rid of the planned austerity?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u112	We are now discussing the 2016 budget. There's extra money going to the nursing homes. We agreed that this should be the norm. Let us first see how this step is taken. I want to know from the Secretary of State whether he embraces the plan and whether the extra money for the nursing homes can also be spent on it. So I'm talking about 2016. I think it would be a good idea to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u113	We can, of course, talk about what good quality care is, whether or not you can measure it and how and whether or not that has to do with money. We all know that the quality of nursing home care is very closely related to staffing. If you don't have enough people, you get malnutrition, ligature wounds, abuse, too little attention, and you name it. It always has to do with staff when the quality goes down. Does Mr Potters know what percentage of nursing homes the staffing is in order according to the inspection?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u114	There are nursing homes that are not in order and there are nursing homes that are in order. I agree with Mrs Agema. Where it is insufficient, I will certainly say that standards need to be raised, but also that nursing homes need to perform better. This has also been demonstrated in the examples of my plea to Mr O'Honnell that not the nursing homes that had the most money or the highest capacity utilisation scored the best on the quality of care, but that it is about whether the patient is placed at the centre and whether the well-being of the patient is being looked at and less about the institutional interest. You will see that then the quality of care progresses with leaps. So it is not a question of money, nor is it necessarily a question of occupation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u115	That's really a bullshit story. We all know that the quality of care is equivalent to sufficient occupation. I have asked Mr Potters if he is familiar with the percentage of nursing homes which, according to the inspection, the staff is in order. I can give him the answer. We always hear the mantra here that there are good and less good houses and that it never has to do with money. I think it is. Only 4% of nursing homes have the staff in order. Does Mr Potters realize that the continued cuts, including the removal of the Agema funds, are 5% on the macro budget, and now a little bit pluses, we are actually doing very badly? Staff don't work for free and have to be paid. Is the VVD going to reverse the cuts, not only for 2016, but also for the 500 million in 2017, which will matter to some ten thousand employees?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u116	I always hear from the PVV the mantra that there is huge savings on care. That is not the case. Year after year, we spend more money on care than the year before. The only thing this cabinet has done is to make sure that the very large peak of healthcare expenditure is somewhat capped. This is a difficult task. It is important for our children and grandchildren, because we want care to be comprehensive and affordable for everyone. In some respects, this also means less investment and more savings. Satisfying in itself does not have to be a problem, but Mrs Agema has to step a little away from the mantra that only cuts in care are being made, because that is simply not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u117	We agreed to do the interruptions in two, I understood when I took over the baton, but since you are being addressed, you will have the opportunity to respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u118	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. The mantra that we spend more and more money on care, you can't stand it either. In fact, it is becoming less and less percentage-by-percentage. Absolutely it may be more, but GDP is also growing. GDP is growing, inflation is rising and salaries are rising. Most of the money in health care goes on salaries. It's always the VVD saying...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u119	Just because I gave you room for an interruption doesn't mean you're going to be able to keep your speech from the input. What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u120	My question is why the VVD continues to insist that there is supposed to be more and more money going to healthcare, in absolute numbers, but that the percentage by percentage, all the way in the nursing homes, is falling further and further.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u121	That is a specific question. Mr. Potters.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u122	In absolute figures, Mrs Agema says this herself, too, we are spending more and more money on care. Mrs Agema may have missed it, but we have had to deal with a serious economic crisis and our gross national product has not risen so rapidly. In fact, the rise in our prosperity was very much behind the rise in healthcare costs. This cabinet has ensured that this is in line with each other and that we have affordable care in the long term, not only for Mrs Agema and myself, but also for our children and grandchildren. We have now started this as a change in the system and, indeed, in some areas there has also been savings. However, Mrs Agema needs to move away from the picture of a huge reduction in healthcare. This is just not true. When she looks at the actual figures, the budget and the numbers, she sees that more money still goes to care every year.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u123	For the time being, the last interruption for Mr Van Gerven, because Mr Potters has spoken for two minutes and has been going on for a total of thirteen and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u124	It's not about whether we spend more or less on care. The issue is whether that to which people are entitled is available. I note that the VVD has demolished the nursing homes, together with the Labour Party and other parties. That's what's going on. I ask Mr Potters whether it is not the case that the money should follow the need.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u125	I come back to the thesis that the VVD and the PvdA have demolished the nursing homes. We often hear this kind of easy one-liners from the SP, but when we ask about their own plan, a dredging story comes out. I'll just say it the way it is. We've looked into the client's needs. The client says, "I want to live at home longer." I'd like to stay in my familiar surroundings. I don't need to go to a nursing home. The age at which people go to nursing homes has risen for a reason. It is not the case that the VVD and the PvdA wanted to demolish nursing homes; we have just listened to what the clients want. The clients want to stay at home for as long as possible, close to their familiar surroundings. We're following that trend. We are therefore looking very closely at the needs of the people themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u126	Has Mr Potters not listened to the VVD's speech on Aggie Scholtens, a 88-year-old lady who is forced by the policy of the VVD and the Labour Party to move because the financing of the nursing homes has simply been cut off and nursing homes have been demolished? That's what's going on. Mr Potters says: I am so concerned about the matter, we must come up with a standard for nursing homes. How, then, does he explain that 40% has been cut off from home care, 25% on day care, 15% on youth care and 15% on community care? What does that have to do with quality care? Is this not simply a policy of destruction, encouraged by the dictations of Brussels?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u127	It's a little hard to actually react when you get this kind of reproach thrown at your head. I think it's really bullshit. We have seen where the needs of the people themselves are and what clients really want. As far as nursing homes are concerned, we have looked at what people need: small-scale care, preferably close to home. If possible, people want to stay home as long as possible. When it comes to decentralisation, we have all the responsibility and space to give the municipalities to solve matters together with the people at home. This concerns not only the decentralisation of long-term care, but also the Participation Act and youth care. You can do that sometimes with less money. You always think it's gonna get better if you put money in something. We think that sometimes with less money you can achieve better results, as long as you organise it well and efficiently. That's what we stand for. Mr. Chairman. I'll get back to the subject of nursing homes. I think it's very important to look very closely at what people want. Let me give you a few simple examples. It can sometimes be very important for people to be allowed to bring a pet to the institution. Or that they are able to prepare their food together, instead of getting something to serve. I would also like to mention an example that I encountered during a working visit in Nieuwegein, where a healthcare worker works in his own clothing at the institution rather than in the clothes of the hospital. In this way, the distance from the client is reduced as much as possible. If rules need to be disabled in order to provide more space for the quality of life, the experimental article in the Wet langsonderneming offers plenty of space for this. As far as the VVD is concerned, this cannot therefore constitute an obstacle. I would ask the Secretary of State to join the inspection in visiting all those institutions where things are going so well. Look why it's going so well. Work that out in a clear standard, but not in a kind of "one size fits all" standard. The quality of life is paramount. Keep the settings to that. Give the sector a maximum of two years to comply with this standard. We must no longer talk about good examples; we will soon have only excellent examples. In recent years, we have seen a lack of commitment and a lack of good examples. It seems appropriate to include these examples in this general standard. Increasing the quality standard of nursing homes is an important step in terms of the VVD. At the same time, the Secretary of State must now make real progress in preparing and introducing the next-person funding for people who are going to live in a nursing home or a nursing home. The VVD expects the Secretary of State to submit the General Measure of Management to the Chamber before the summer of 2016, so that we can discuss this with each other and we can really do something about it during this cabinet period. If we want to put quality of life at the centre, something must change. If we choose a financing structure in which people can vote with their feet, we encourage institutions to increase quality. If an institution that is dependent on a client for financing does not deliver quality, it loses its right to exist, and rightly so. That sounds very hard, but it's the only way the direction will be where it belongs, namely with the client and his or her family. By raising the standard of equal treatment for nursing homes and nursing homes, and by preparing the next person's funding, we enable institutions to prepare themselves well for a situation in which the client can actually be king. We think this is a good development, because even if you can no longer live in your home, there must always be a place where you can feel at home.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u128	I have another question about this standard. It is of course very personal what quality of life is. For one it is possible to have a pet in the room, for the other it is a glass of wine with food. To what extent is it now the idea of the VVD to impose a standard centrally, and to what extent is there space and the satisfaction of the people in the nursing homes themselves included? My fear is that the latter will not happen. I suddenly hear from the VVD a kind of creative idea that surprises me a bit, but perhaps Mr Potters can reassure me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u129	You want me to give it a try? Of course, it's also about the client's experience. If you measure how satisfied the clients are with their quality of life, it must be a very important indicator to see whether a nursing home scores well or not. We of the VVD are not of no obligation. If all of us think that nursing homes should meet good standards and that quality of life should be paramount, then we should not just talk about the good examples, but should also dare to say: you must comply with them. If they do not do so, the Secretary of State and the inspection may act more firmly against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u130	I often see at the VVD: if something doesn't work out, we're going to make it. That's actually my fear, too. There is no general standard. It is very dependent on what people themselves think. I hope that Mr Potters can at least make a commitment to me that, if it is discussed, the client, the individual is at the heart of it and taken into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u131	Let me make it very clear once again: the client is central. That is also clearly the speech of the VVD, both from me and from my colleague. That's the point. They can determine what quality of life is. They know that like no other. I want that to be listened to much better. If this is central, we also believe that institutions in which the quality of life is insufficient should be taken into account. Then the best 20 or 30 are the norm and everyone will have to comply with it. In a while, we'll only be talking about the excellent examples. The improvement of the quality of nursing homes and the introduction of the next-person funding to give people more direction about their quality of life are the most important points the State Secretary has to deal with. In addition, there are a number of smaller points I would like to mention before I finish my contribution. For the VVD, the right care comes first at the right time. Experiments are currently being carried out on the use of help dogs in people with epilepsy. The use of an aid dog by these patients could reduce the number of seizures and possibly even prevent the stay in hospitals. This can lead to a huge profit in quality of life for the patient. I have tabled an amendment on this subject and I trust that the cabinet will support it wholeheartedly. I would like to hear a response to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u132	Mr Van Gerven, on the point for the aid dog.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u133	I'm talking about the discussion we just had about the pgb. We had a little debate on that. The VVD blames the SP a lot, but is it not the case that the right to care lapses? The VVD abolished the right to care in the Youth Act and the Wmo, didn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u134	I'm really trying to make chocolate out of this, but I think we just had a discussion about the pgb. I understand that the SP actually wants to abolish the pgb. That is good for the people at home, who thought your colleague Mr Leijten was such a big supporter of that. Turns out you're in a different place. That's all right. That's all you care about. What we are talking about here is the personal funding. It is important that the client becomes much more central and that the funding follows what the client himself wants to do. We now see that institutions are mainly funded and organisations are maintained. In my opinion, the SP and the VVD agree on at least one point, namely that we are trying to get as much overhead out of the care as possible. We might be able to cut back on that. Then, in my opinion, personal funding is really a step towards the future, where the client is placed at the centre. Your plea about child care and other laws, that's up to you. I think we are having a debate on this budget now, so perhaps you should try to ask your question again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u135	That's what I'm about, but go ahead, Mr. Van Gerven.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u136	I thought the Social Support Act was part of the budget, and also the Youth Act. The VVD abolishes the right to care.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u137	I don't think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u138	The right to care is abolished. Doesn't that mean you're taking the right to a pgb? The VVD runs out of care. That's the conclusion, isn't it? I would just like to say that before the Acts, because Mr Potters will deny it. If you abolish the right to care, don't you also waive the right to a pgb?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u139	You may try to conclude what you want; that is up to you. I have seen that your plans do not lead to anything, only to high costs and indeed to the abolition of pgb. We're not for that. The VVD considers the pgb to be an extremely important instrument, because the individual has a real right to choose, can decide for himself which care suits him or her best and is not dependent on an institution. You would like to return to the old sickness fund and institution care where as a doctor you may decide what is good for the patient. We really stand in front of the pgb and have always made us hard for that. You have been able to see this in the debate many times over the last few years.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u140	You're talking to me. I'm not skimming anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u141	Excuse me, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u142	I'm the chairman here. Mr Van Gerven was addressed and can respond as far as I am concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u143	Mr Potters talks about our plan 'The concern is ours', which I can recommend to all listeners and all 17 million Dutch people. It does not say that we are abolishing the personal budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u144	In my opinion, you really mean in your plan that you are going to end the pgb and that you really only want care in kind. Driven from the SP, I get that. It is also fine if you stand before it, but be honest with your supporters. You have been at the interrupt microphone every time it did not go well with the pgb, but then you come up with a plan to abolish the pgb. With others in the Chamber, I find that a bad thing. We must try to keep the pgb as much as possible as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u145	Mr Potters does not deal with Mr Van Gerven's other point, namely access to healthcare. For example, you can see that the number of people with a Wmo indication decreases every year, while those people don't suddenly get much healthier. What does the VVD do about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u146	The VVD provides a wide package that is accessible to everyone, with care costs being as low as possible and we also have something left for our children and grandchildren. This sometimes means that we have to make difficult choices about care. If our prosperity grows less than our care costs, we need to align it. We stand for a wide accessible package for everyone in the Netherlands. That's a big good. We Liberals will always fight for this. I think we should be proud of our concern. The SP says the VVD is breaking down the care, but nothing is less true. We ensure that care remains sustainable for a long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u147	Mrs. Voortman, you're a frontrunner in the number of interruptions so far. Can you keep it short?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u148	Of course. The VVD does say to people who now have trusted care that they get less care, while those people need that care very much. I think that was the point Mr Van Gerven made and that Mr Potters does not want to admit fairly. I'm sorry to hear that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u149	We need to take a good look at the care. The care must be affordable and the people who really need care must always have access to that care. Not only we here in the Lower House, but also aldermen in municipalities are critically looking at what is needed and what we can ask of people themselves. We Liberals also consider this to be very important. That makes perfect sense to me. It must be possible to make that assessment. It's not open access without any limit where everything you ask for can be delivered. I believe that we should be critical of the care that needs to be provided and that people should also be asked to contribute, but that the system should always be accessible to all those who really need care.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u150	You will continue your speech. You would have stuck to an explanation of the amendment on the aid dog.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u151	I was done with that, so I'm going to my next point. I'm getting signals that people who use the sleepover shelter for a disabled child run into restrictions and rules. They are therefore forced to opt for a more expensive inclusion in an institution, with all the consequences for the family. Does the Secretary of State agree with me that this cannot be the intention? Would he like to take a closer look at that and perhaps come back to that in the second term? The reform of long-term care seems to have been controlled so far, with one negative exception. In recent years, the introduction of the right to draw has resulted in a bunch of letters, numerous debates and, above all, a lot of misery for aid workers and clients. I am not going to repeat those debates here; I do not think that is wise. However, I would like a clear commitment from the Secretary of State. Will the annual transition from 2015 to 2016 be smooth? Can the Secretary of State give this to us, to the aid workers and, in particular, to the clients? That brings me to the end of my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u152	I haven't heard from the VVD Group about the middle incomes at all. When we debated the abolition of the allowance for chronically ill and disabled people, the reduction in the own contribution and the compensation of the own risk to which the CDA was opposed, the CDA constantly said, also to the VVD, that the middle income will pay for it. It wasn't then. The Secretary of State has, at my request, carried out a small investigation into this matter. This shows that the compensation by municipalities is only aimed at the minima. Does the VVD now believe with the CDA that this is not going well and that this calls for additional compensation?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u153	In my view, we have asked together to take a close look at the accumulation effects of one's own risk. The Secretary of State is working on this and the outcome will also come to the Chamber. It is important to look again at the results. However, Mrs Keijzer made an interesting suggestion, namely that this should be compensated. I listened carefully to your colleague Buma in the General Political Reviews. He was perfectly clear. He said there's no extra penny going to healthcare in 2016 and 2017. Maybe I didn't get that right. I understand now that Mrs Keijzer has resources available to compensate for the middle incomes. How is she gonna do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u154	Mr Potters did not listen carefully! I'll come and introduce you later. What is more interesting, however, is that the VVD Group said to the CDA in no uncertain terms at the time: what you are saying is all nonsense; it will not be a matter of keeping the account at the middle incomes. The investigation now shows that this is the case. Does the VVD now take back those words? Does the VVD Group, with the CDA, see that middle incomes really pay the full pound: maximum own contributions for both customization and general provisions and no compensation from the municipalities because they focus on the minima?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u155	I have just said that we have asked together to look at the accumulation effects of our own contributions, including the middle income. The Secretary of State is looking into it now. Mrs Keijzer now poses a contradiction that is not at all there. Nor does she answer my question. She suggests that middle incomes should be compensated and she says that this is a priority for the CDA. I understand that, with the supporters that Mrs Keijzer has. But her foreman says there's not a penny left to go to care. How does Mrs Keijzer rhyme with each other? Is she going to table a motion today for extra money for middle income? I'd like to look at that, but I'd like to know what the cover is for that. Then we can see which way it goes. So I want to know what Mrs Keijzer really wants to say here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u156	I'm holding on to interruptions...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u157	On a point of order: I can't get an answer. I'm so sorry about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u158	Don't you want to talk through me, Mrs. Keijzer? I hold on to interruptions in two, but since you are being addressed and have asked a question, I am giving you an opportunity to respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u159	No, Mr President, that makes no sense if I do not get an answer to my question. I'm afraid it's no different. The VVD Group does not want to make it clear how it wants to stand for middle incomes. I'm afraid that's only the case. Here it is always said that someone is talking about his own answers; that is true now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u160	Then we shall leave it to that observation, Mrs Keijzer. Thank you very much for your input, Mr Potters. I call Mrs Bruins Slot.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u161	Mr. Chairman. The other day, a nurse told me about the difficulties she is having in getting enough and also the right continence material for the elderly and that older people, out of shame, no longer go out or drink anything on a birthday because they do not want to have an accident. You're only gonna have to fight as an 80-player with the health insurance company or the supplier about the amount of continence material you're getting. The incontinence nurse believes that more continence material is necessary and gives that advice, but the health insurance company and the supplier decide differently, and the CDA thinks that this is bad. This is also reflected in the conclusions in the ZonMw report. There are no directives or standards for assessing which tool is most appropriate. The user's position is below par. That's what the report says. There is little research available on innovation, efficiency and added value of resources. The Minister responds in response to the report with her eternal interference response from the administrative consultation. On this point, the CDA considers that this is totally inadequate. The CDA would like, as with the prescription of medicines, the healthcare provider to be able to determine which medicine the patient gets if there is a medical need. Then the caregiver and the patient will be back in the lead. I would like a response from the Minister to this proposal. Its own risk is intended as a brake on unnecessary care use, but has now actually become a brake on medically necessary care. The group of people who no longer go to the hospital after a reference has grown by 25%. The CDA therefore wants a number of points to be taken into account. For chronically ill patients, the own risk is soon full with the first treatment or the first medicine. Moreover, there are regional differences in the level of the own risk to be paid for treatment. Local hospitals often pay more because the costs are higher there. The CDA's proposal is to introduce a fixed amount of, for example, €75 per patient treatment, of course up to a maximum of €375, so that there is a brake moment each time. I'd like a response from the Minister to this. In addition, the CDA is tabling an amendment to reverse the increase in its own risk. It seems that people with a high voluntary personal risk up to €885 often cannot pay the bill. Does the Minister have any idea of the effects of this high voluntary risk? Can she examine these effects?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u162	I don't know exactly what it is that you said that makes there a queue at the interrupting microphone right now. I shall begin with Mr Van Gerven.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u163	I do, because it's about the risk, the disease tax. We need to get rid of that. That is a fine on being sick, and that is very unjust. I'm listening to an inconsistency at the CDA. Mrs Bruins Slot says it has actually become a brake on necessary care. She says that in so many words. But how can she, with a dry eye, propose that the general practitioner should refer someone to the hospital for a fine of €75?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u164	It is important to provide proper care and to make people think about whether they need to go to the doctor every time. The way we've arranged it now with that high personal risk that you've lost in one blow, the CDA thinks it goes too far. We think we can do it in a different way, so there is always a time for the patient to think about whether it is necessary or not. The beauty of this system is that it allows us to ensure a brake of €75.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u165	I'm just noticing that this is inconsistent and it doesn't add up. The GP makes the decision with a patient to go to the hospital. For example, the general practitioner considers that a referral card is necessary for a particular treatment. Then there's just been careful consideration. Surely it doesn't suit a Christian-social party to fine $70 for every time you go to the hospital for treatment? Wouldn't it be much better to tackle the system, in which a great deal is not going well and which has enormous bureaucracy and waste by health insurers with their care ads and so on, instead of imposing a fine on the patient?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u166	The CDA really doesn't look like the SP. The SP proposals will lead to the re-establishment of the waiting lists and will also ensure that some costs really go up. It is important that we can provide good care to people. The CDA really looks differently against the system that favours the SP and against the proposals of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u167	It is very nice that the CDA comes with this; of course this was also part of the CDA's election programme. In 2010 I exchanged with the then CDA Minister for Health that D66 wanted a similar system and also wanted an income-dependent ceiling. Then it was said that this could not be done and that this would result in far too much bureaucracy. How does the CDA plan to handle this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u168	D66 refers to an income-dependent ceiling. I think that is indeed far too complicated in the implementation. I find it striking that, for example, the hospital sector is now saying that this proposal can probably be implemented. In the last five years, digital developments have not stopped either. That is why it seems very good to me that the Minister should investigate this further and ensure that this can be implemented.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u169	Mrs. Bruins Slot mentioned an amount. You could also look at a percentage of the care bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u170	I said, "for example, €75." At the heart of the matter is that we need a good brake on unnecessary use of care and not an unnecessary brake on unnecessary use of care. If a good brake can best take the form of a certain amount around €75, that's fine. You can look at percentages, but then it gets very complicated. After all, you have to look at how expensive this treatment is per treatment and then you have to calculate the percentage. Although this proposal is sympathetic, I can therefore imagine that this would entail a great deal of additional administrative burdens. Of course, we're not waiting for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u171	When you interrupted me, you also spoke about the importance of fewer rules and less bureaucracy. You are now suggesting a plan that you yourself indicate you do not know quite whether it can be implemented. This surprises me somewhat, because such measures should at least not lead to more administrative burdens. We saw last week how complicated hospital bills can be. Can you give me another reflection on that? Why do you come up with a proposal which, at least, the people who see it say it becomes very complicated in the implementation?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u172	I have the impression that Mr De Lange may not have fully understood me. I have indicated that it is a workable plan, but Mrs Dijkstra suggested that we also work with an income-dependent ceiling and with percentages. I think that would create a lot of additional administrative burdens.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u173	So how do you come to the conclusion that this would be a workable plan and would not create bureaucracy? After all, the plan brings in all kinds of steps. This is going to create all kinds of additional administrative burdens; that is just a fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u174	We now also work with our own contributions to long-term care, but also within the Health Insurance Act. So that system is there. If the CDA makes a proposal to make this more affordable for people and to make it more feasible to deal with its own risk, I find it a little disappointing that Mr De Lange is once again falling into a malfunction reaction in the vein of: we have to look at whether all this can be done and whether it is not too difficult. Let's start by looking at how we can solve a big problem that people often have with paying one's own risk. After all, we currently have 800,000 payment arrangements. More than 350,000 people can't pay their bills, and they're defaulters. People care about people. It is important to maintain the human measure in care. This also means that health insurers are first and foremost civil society organisations: they must be of service to care and to the people. However, the social role of health insurers is not going well. Healthcare insurers have an unnecessary amount of care money on the shelf. The CDA wants a ceiling on the reserves that health insurers may hold. Questioning in Europe teaches that this can also be done. I'm getting a response from the Minister. The CDA also considers that health insurers should not pay any profit. It is also necessary to strengthen the position of insured persons among health insurers. The results of a major European study have recently been published. It concludes that health insurers in the Netherlands form an oligopoly and that this is a danger to healthy relationships. That is why the CDA wants a rigorous merger test for health insurers and for it to be possible to split health insurers if it turns out that they have too much power. I would like to receive a response from the Minister on this point. For me, the Minister can go into the books as the minister who has taken control of healthcare expenditure. The CDA considers the affordability of care to be very important, as everyone can continue to receive good care. However, it is difficult for the General Court to still find that there are bottlenecks in the registration, declaration and accountability requirements. This is not only noted by the General Court of Auditors; on 21 January 2015, the Dutch Professional Organisation of Accountants sent a letter of fire expressing concerns about the accountability of the entire social domain, i.e. of the municipalities as well as of the healthcare organisations, the mental health organisations, the elderly organisations and the disabled and youth care institutions. We have also recently received a letter stating that the final decision on the macro-control instrument for 2013 has been postponed for two years to spring 2014. As a result, it is not clear for years after that how much money has actually been spent on healthcare in the Netherlands. Not only that, the mental health statistics for 2013 and 2014 are still unknown. The 2014 figures will only come in 2017. So we know at the earliest in 2017 exactly how much money we spent on healthcare in 2013 and 2014 and whether we spent more or less. The General Court has already established this. He writes that the Minister does not consider this to be a problem. On behalf of the CDA, I propose that an independent committee of financial experts be set up, which will carry out further research into this financial problem and come up with recommendations. I'd like to get a response from the Minister. I've been talking about mental health. We must take care of the most vulnerable people in society. We must not abandon them. That's why the CDA considers it so important that there is good mental health care. We are concerned about the accessibility and availability of mental health care. The reduction of beds in the institutions does not coincide with the construction of mental health care facilities in practice. At the moment there is too much talk of prison thinking, as the Federation of Reception, the National Platform of Mental Health Care and the Salvation Army also indicate. The CDA wants the minister to pick up the glove and ensure the knowledge of psychiatric restrictions in the district teams and in municipalities. That must really be in order and the Secretary of State can help. The Minister and the Secretary of State also promised in 2014 that there would be objective substantive criteria for the access of clients of mental health care to the Long-Term Care Act. In technical terms, this applies to both the B and C packages. How's that going? I haven't seen any of that since 2014, while we want to give people good care and deliver customised services. Then there must be good objective substantive criteria. D66 has also been hard on this. It's kind of weird how hard it is to quit smoking even when you're pregnant. Almost one in four low-educated pregnant women just smoke through during pregnancy. Babies whose mothers smoke are twice as likely to have low birth weight. There's been miscarriage, or the baby stays too small. Also, the risk of cradle death is twice as great. The report of the Health Inspectorate shows that there is really insufficient attention to this issue. The CDA wants this cabinet to help pregnant women more actively to get rid of smoking. This requires close cooperation between gynecologist and obstetrician. I am also offering, on behalf of the CDA, an action plan to the Secretary of State for the purpose of achieving this. The CDA really wants the Secretary of State to carry out the proposals contained in this plan, so that this is done properly and to ensure that both the mother and the baby are protected during pregnancy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u175	I would ask Mrs Bruins Slot to hand over this plan to the public.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u176	I'm about to go to lockdown. The beauty of the concern is that it's human work. The care is there for people and is provided by people. From work visits we always come back with suggestions and ideas to make that care better. That's what I hear from my colleagues. It is important that we do this. The best suggestions often come from practice. I'd like to ask the Minister if she's gonna do that. An ambulance driver who sits in the car every day told me that people in Germany learn for the theory exam that motorists have to emigrate. It prevents many accidents and injuries. My request to the Minister is whether she wants to get to work on this good idea. Is it possible to teach Dutch drivers a uniform way of evasive action? Now 60% of the ambulance drivers have had an accident. This shows that the care of people is often good solutions in practice. It is important that they are given the space to do so, and that they are not subject to any restrictive rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u177	I have a practical point to make. I assume that the memo the CDA is talking about will be circulated to the members of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u178	Of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u179	I hope so. Yes, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u180	Mr. Chairman. The CDA sees that the speed of implementation of the Reform Act leads to gaps in legislation. This leads to confusion for caregivers and family members and it sends people from the locker to the wall and back again. It has not become any clearer for the average care provider. One often wonders under which law the necessary care and support is now covered. Does the government recognize this? Let me give you some examples. In the case of intensive child care, in 2016 another part of the guidance will be covered by the Youth Act. The older person living at home receives less hours of care at home, both in the Wmo and in the Health Insurance Act, and that is what the caregiver has to take care of at home. The case manager dementia has no claim in the Health Insurance Act. As a result, all accumulated knowledge, which could also be used in the Wmo, seems to disappear. There is a bill on bridging care, but it is unclear whether the municipality or the healthcare office is paying for this care. Does the transfer nurse at the hospital indicate the care at home or does the neighborhood nurse do that? Then I come to the third progress report on long-term care, which we received on Monday evening. This shows that children under the age of 18 who have an indication through the Awbz, after they have become 18, move to the Wmo if they need to stay, because there would then be a temporary need for sheltered housing. Why, Secretary of State, why? Is this some kind of death home construction for children under the age of 18 who now have a vg4 indication? I have put forward a list of questions on this subject. It's extremely technical and complicated. I would like all these questions answered. So I can judge whether there is indeed a death home construction. Health care reforms have increased the administrative burden, not only for caregivers who have a pgb, but certainly also for institutions that provide the same care but are now subject to different laws. During the treatment of the Wmo, the government said that the overhead of the Wmo was over 9%. What is it now? The own contribution to the care is not smooth either. People are being charged with their own contribution for months of care provided and are therefore frightened. Previously, the CDA proposed to encourage municipalities to pay entrepreneurs' accounts more quickly. Today, the CDA proposes to set a maximum period of one month for the submission of data to the CAK by municipalities and health offices, at the penalty of a discount on the own contribution for the relevant month. The CDA also asks the Secretary of State to consider the possibility of introducing a fixed own contribution per month. This means that afterward you have to pay much less for actual care provided. This leads to far fewer corrections between providers, citizens and the CAK. I'd like to get a reaction from the government on this. In 2016, additional money will be invested in care for the elderly, both for activities and for training. Will these funds be added to the contract space, or will there be a subsidy scheme in which only health care institutions that work regularly or participate in quality projects are eligible for this money? During this budget debate, the CDA will be pleased to receive a plan for this. Since 1 January 2015, the cabinet has chosen to allow people with disabilities and older people to live longer at home. As we know, the CDA supports the idea that people live longer at home, even because people want to live longer at home. In addition, however, this cabinet chose to cut millions. That is why we are tabling a number of amendments to this budget today, which make more money available for care at home. The CDA wants municipalities from the Wmo to decide, on the basis of substantive criteria, whether or not to provide people with help and support at home. The CDA wants account to be taken of what carers can handle. We also want district care to be able to provide adequate care and care for the people at home. As far as the CDA is concerned, the Wmo should not become a poverty bill. I have already spoken about it in an interruption debate with Mr Potters. The WTCG measure is mainly used to support the lowest incomes. That's from welfare level to 120%. Here, too, we believe that there should be money. The CDA is concerned that in a few years' time no personal care can be provided and only nursing is reimbursed. The Health Insurance Act is a medical law. Personal care such as help with showering is not always medically indicated. Think, for example, of vulnerable elderly people or people with a status quo who have a spinal cord injury. There are also insufficient district nurses present in the district. The CDA warned us about that. Not only Actiz, but also almost half of the district nurses, indicates that there is not enough budget to provide the necessary care. A survey also showed that 60% of nurses spend more time on administrative burdens. What are we going to do to really change that? I'd like to get a reaction to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u181	Mrs Keijzer wonders what we're gonna do about it. To begin with, what is the CDA going to do about it? On 15 October, Mrs Keijzer, in the AO, told my colleague Rutte that she would present plans to repair and compensate for this in the neighbourhood care sector. In the debate that has just taken place, she said that something must be done about the situation of middle incomes, because it would not do well. Meanwhile, her colleague Buma said at the General Political Reviews that there really is no extra money going to care and that the CDA wants to be very economical about it. Mrs Keijzer out of her care, and you may. That is also a good thing, as part of such budgetary treatment, but there is no plan at all. Anything about the SP's plan can be said to be a bad plan, but at least there's a plan. At the CDA, however, there is nothing at all. What's this party gonna do?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u182	We have prepared amendments that have already been sent or are being sent to the Chamber, and that also states how we will find cover for the extra money. The amendments say that the CDA wants to make additional money available for community care, for the WTCG and for the WMO. This is covered, for example, by introducing low-level care. Previous studies have shown that this can lead to savings of between 7% and 19%. That is an example of what we intend to do. The CDA is also in favour of finally regulating compulsory hospital procurement. If you look at how this purchase takes place in Germany, it turns out that 30% to 40% can be bought in cheaper. So there is money for that care at home and the CDA is going to make it available through these amendments. These have already been sent to the Chamber, or they will be coming soon, I don't know where they are in the pipeline.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u183	On this last point, the amendments are currently before the reproduction department.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u184	It seems to me a little difficult to put forward such plans in the form of amendments with a rather vague coverage, in my view. Mrs Keijzer promised my colleague a plan on 15 October. Now there is no plan, it is referred to the cabinet and the CDA submits a number of amendments. Is my conclusion therefore correct that what Mr Buma has said is simply nonsense, namely that there is no extra money going to the care, that he wanted to make a strict, perhaps somewhat firm sound about it in the General Political Reviews but that through the back, through amendments, more money goes to the care. That's possible, but it might be useful if the CDA decides what it stands for.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u185	You know what I'm sorry about now? The CDA has put forward proposals for improvement during the process of examining all these laws. At that time, the majority of the Chamber did not agree. Next, the CDA comes today with a counter-budget in which we make extra money available for care at home. Last year and the year before we did this and today we do it again. It is a pity that the VVD Group is not prepared to look at that. There's money for it, it's possible, and then we can finally get together in the Chamber and get some more money to go to home care. Again, it seems as if we have a different opinion on this from everyone else here today, but we also think that if people can stay at home, it is a good thing that you take care of it that way. I don't care if it's just because people want to. You will then have to make sure that there is enough money to make that possible. That is what I stand for today, those are the proposals of the CDA, so that plan is indeed there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u186	I also hear Mrs Keijzer talking about a concession for chronically ill and disabled people, in the sense that there should be more money to go, but at the same time I hear from municipalities the signal that there is money there that is actually not being used for that purpose. Does she want to respond to that? Does she recognize that signal?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u187	No. The documents include the progress report on long-term care. In this context, the Secretary of State asked a limited number of municipalities how they deal with their own contribution and how they compensate the different income groups. This shows that only the minima are compensated. The CDA has also made this point on several occasions in dealing with the laws abolishing the benefit of the chronically ill and disabled. That is why we are not in favour of this. That's what the investigation has shown. So as far as the CDA is concerned, we need money.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u188	But the question of where exactly it ends up is a different question than whether the money that is there is being used. In any case, I get signals from municipalities that there is money for it, but that they have not yet found a way to get it to that target group in a good way. So shouldn't that be the first question before we talk about extra money? Are the budgets available sufficient for this purpose?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u189	When I speak to CDA aldermen, I mainly speak to aldermen of CDA-houses, I often hear from them that there are absolutely good aspects of the policy from The Hague but that they simply have too little money to carry it out. That comes not only from that angle to us but also from healthcare institutions. Actiz said something about the neighborhood nursing. You know the discussion about the patient stops. A survey has been conducted among nurses showing the same thing. Then, on behalf of the CDA, I think you should count your buttons at some point. If you want to prevent all the energy that has recently gone into a better care home, close to people, from being lost, that means extra money for home care. Coverage can be found in the amendments. It runs along the same lines as in our counter-budget of last year and the previous year, with, on top of that, the much more efficient buying-in of care in hospitals, because there are huge financial benefits to be gained. I very much hope that the Chamber will accept these proposals from the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u190	Let me now turn to the previous point. The CDA did not come up with a counter-budget for 2016. Mrs Keijzer is now tabling a number of amendments to regulate matters. I always think it is very good for parties to come up with proposals, but I think this also indicates that even the CDA has had to go to a lot of trouble to find money when it comes to low-level care projects. Is it true that it was difficult to find extra money for care at home within the budget?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u191	No, we didn't. We just looked where that room is. This year, the CDA has not chosen to come up with a counter-budget because there is 5 billion relief. There has once been an interrupting debate between Mr Pechtold and Mr Buma. That was nice, because then Mr Buma said: Mr Buma is happy, Mr Pechtold is angry.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u192	Why don't we do this for a second?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u193	We can do that, but that would be a repeat of moves. The CDA therefore welcomes the 5 billion reduction in the burden, also because it leads to the middle income. We are then looking, within the various budgets of interest, for example in the case of Justice, where money is needed, but also in the case of care, for room to make extra money available where necessary. We found that in these parts. But if the D66 group shares what the CDA thinks, namely that more money should be made available for care at home and believes that cover should be found elsewhere, then we are very willing to talk about it, because at the top it says that more money needs to go to home care.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u194	If I remember the election programme, the CDA cuts 3 billion on long-term care. So is that a moving insight of the CDA?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u195	Then we go back to plans that were drawn up in 2011. Let's not do that right now. We are now talking about the 2016 budget. The amounts that the CDA wanted to remove from the care are absolutely true, we too felt that we should look at how we bring down the cost of care.. were always less than what the cabinet, supported by D66, eventually cut. Water under the bridge. We are now standing for the year 2016. Everywhere it squeaks and cracks and you hear there's not enough money for home care. We are putting forward proposals for this. Let's talk to each other about that and let's find majorities for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u196	You still have a second time to have this party-political discussion with each other. Shall we do that over there?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u197	Mr President, a point of fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u198	Very briefly, then.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u199	The CDA cuts 3 billion in the election programme, the government, to which the CDA refers, 2.3 billion for 2015. That's still a lot less than the CDA wanted to save. However, that will be 3.2 billion from 2018. This is just for actual reporting.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u200	For actual reporting, I should like to bring in some choices in Maps to make a precise calculation as to whether this is true.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u201	That seems typical for the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u202	You say that, Mr President, but I do not want to, because I do not think we should look back to 2011 here with each other. We need to look forward to 2016.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u203	Then that will be your contribution in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u204	There we see that there is not enough money for home care. That's where we have to try to find space together. The CDA makes concrete and constructive proposals to this end.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u205	I missed the CDA's counter-budget this year. Today, the CDA is trying to fix this with amendments. Why hasn't that been put in place in a counter-budget? Mrs Schouten has put forward proposals in the Tax Plan, in line with our counter-budget, to help people with disabilities or chronic illness or parents who care for a child with disabilities. Is the CDA going to support those plans?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u206	There is no counter-budget in the literal sense of the word for the same reason that in previous years there was no counter-budget from a number of parties here, because they actually fully support the government's budget. The CDA supports the 5 billion reduction of charges. We then put forward proposals on a number of points. That's what's in there. I invite everyone to look together to see how we can find a majority for that. The proposal of the Christian Union Group will be examined and assessed on its merits.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u207	That's a remarkable statement. The CDA says that there is no counter-budget because the choices of this government are endorsed. I'm gonna ask you again. What is the CDA going to do to improve the position of chronically ill and disabled people? Does the CDA support my group's proposals? On the one hand, you cannot say that you support the cabinet, and on the other hand you cry out, because things are not going well with the chronically ill and the disabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u208	Once more, very precise. We support the 5 billion tax relief. Buma welcomes it, because it puts an end to increasing the taxes that the Christian Union has supported. Next, we are looking at a number of areas where extra money is needed, such as Security and Justice, which will not surprise Mrs Dik-Faber, but certainly also concern. In our own proposals, we certainly paid attention to the situation of chronically ill and disabled people. We therefore put extra money in the WTGC, in the Wmo and in the district nursing to support people with care at home in getting their picture around every day. We all know that things are going badly on parts.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u209	Buma happy, but Buma also said during the General Political Reviews that the CDA does not pay extra money for the care, because there is a lot of money going to the care. I have not yet seen the CDA's amendment and proposal. That's a little tricky, because Mrs Keijzer says that extra money goes to health care. But the cover, for example, when it comes to low-regulation work, isn't it just from care? Could Mrs Keijzer be more specific in this respect? Then where did the extra money for the care come from?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u210	I'm clear about that. Within the VWS budget, we have managed to find posts where money can be saved by throwing rules out of the system and by purchasing more efficiently. We spend that money on care at home. I think it's as ready as a whistle.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u211	So that's not extra money. That is smarter working within the VWS budget, for example, working at a low level. That is what we are all proposing. I think it would be a good idea if the CDA indicated that no extra money would be allocated, but that our call for more regulation and making good examples would be supported. Let us be honest about the fact that there will be no extra money.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u212	Mr Van Dijk may think so, but then it becomes a game of words. If I manage to get money out of care, because we stop with some rules, and because we buy more efficiently, there can be more money to the care home. I would also point out that 1.3 billion has already disappeared from the VWS budget to all kinds of deficits elsewhere. I park the money we found, and that's what we spend on care at home. I think all the people who are watching this debate are incredibly happy that the CDA says that money goes to home care.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u213	In terms of the efficiency of the discussion, I would have been more helpful if you had tabled those amendments at such a time that the other Members could have read them in advance. That would have helped.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u214	I am so glad that Mrs Keijzer has found money by reducing the rules. However, I have here an amendment by Mr Agema on reducing internal regulatory burdens on healthcare providers in the AWBZ, but the CDA voted against it. Then what's changed?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u215	What amendment is that? When was that filed and what was the cover?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u216	The same cover you've chosen a year later.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u217	Tell me, when was that and what does it say?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u218	25 September 2014.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u219	I do not know, I should just look at the scope of that amendment. If it turns out to be the same as what we are doing now, then I can congratulate Mrs Agema, because she came up with that last year. Once again: fantastic, because then at least the PVV will vote for the CDA amendment and we will be a little further together. Then I'll come to the household aid allowance. This is a job plan à la Asscher. It's also a job plan that doesn't work, like all the other job plans. The documents we have received from the government show that although the plans have been submitted, they do not actually make use of them. We were not in favour of this subsidy scheme, but now that we read that the maximum own contribution for 2016 is being increased from €12.50 to €17.50, we do not think it will work at all. We wonder how much money is available for the household help allowance in 2016. We have not yet been able to find the amount in the budget. I'd like to hear what this amount is. We are asking the government whether it is not even time to simply put the money into the WMO funds. Then there is again a large amount of extra money available to actually give people domestic help.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u220	I was going to give one more group the floor for lunch, but before that we are suspending for other reasons. I note that you can agree to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u221	Mr. Chairman. If you're sick, you have to be able to trust that you'll get care that's necessary and that suits you. That is, of course, the care that scientifically has the best outcomes, but it is also the care that fits your needs and personal capabilities. In order to determine this, space is needed for the proper conversation, with understandable information, so that the patient and healthcare professional can make this assessment together. This increases the quality and satisfaction of patients and doctors. It also contributes to safety and the prevention of unnecessary care. We see at European level that our system is highly regarded. The quality of Dutch care is high and the involvement of healthcare providers is high. However, we also see that our system has perverse incentives. The DB payment title is leading, not a patient's question. The dbc reimburses the maximum done and not the good conversation and the best care. In the case of sickness care is reimbursed, but prevention for the prevention of illness is not reimbursed. There is little room for innovative care, which is more patient-oriented and better. In short, the supply is central and not the patient's demand. A second problem is the implementation of the system by health insurers. Healthcare insurers are price fighters, who do not buy on quality, but on price, according to the NZa. The insured person's voice will not be taken. So this is where political direction is needed. Furthermore, we see that there is insufficient control and consultation with regard to the organisation of the care landscape. We do have a say in the construction of roads in a region, but there is no participation in the provision of care in the region. Whoever cares for them doesn't have enough influence. We use this budget to make proposals that will put people at the centre of care and control, they will have the care that suits them and the system will focus on how we keep people healthy for as long as possible. This all starts with room for a good conversation. In order to determine whether care really suits someone, a good and equal conversation between patient and caregiver is needed, in which the question is really listened to, the diagnosis and treatment alternatives can be discussed and can be addressed seriously about the information that someone has already collected at home, via the Internet or other sources. This will enable a dialogue to be set up which will lead to the choice of care that really suits someone. At present, a decision on treatment is often taken in a ten-minute meeting. There is plenty of time for treatment and surgery, but time is needed for the proper conversation to be able to consider with the doctor what care is appropriate and what the consequences are. This leads to great frustration on the part of the health care provider and the patient. A health insurance company now decides whether extra time can be bought to speak more to a patient. This can be done via viewing and listening money, but this is done very little. The Labour Party considers it undesirable that this is a choice of the health insurance provider. The Labour Party wants the doctor to make this assessment in the office, along with his patient. We ask the Minister to raise the good conversation to a standard so that it is possible for all caregivers in all situations and thus becomes self-evident. We want financial arrangements to be examined that shift the perverse incentive of the medical operation to reward the good conversation as a basis before any treatment begins. If we do not want people to become dependent on Dr. Google's sometimes questionable information for information about care, it is very important that more patient-oriented information is provided, which also takes into account the low-literate. Only then can the statutory obligation to inform consent be fulfilled. The year of transparency should actually be the year of the patient's understandable information, so that the patient knows where he is going in advance. The Labour Party wants the provision of that understandable information to become quite normal and that is the norm, not only from the translation of a doctor's directive, but above all from the patient's demand. We know the good examples: a children's comic book dealing with nuclear medicine, the urology icons, especially for the low-literate, the interactive website of the heart followers, the YouTube movies. These are all ways in which people can take information more easily. However, these examples depend on willing doctors, who make this information available in a way that is understandable to the patient in their evening hours. We can see that a publication in the high-quality scientific journal The Lancet is appreciated, but not so much the very important task of developing patient-oriented information per sick image, from the patient's demand. How is the minister going to encourage and reward doctors who are committed to this? How can patient-oriented information become a quality condition in purchasing? Is it possible, together with patients, caregivers, their domes and medical departments, to appoint an ambassador per dome, who will promote patient-oriented information and collect good examples? Does the Minister intend to give the healthcare institutions a role in this, so that patient-oriented information is promoted throughout the sector and monitored? Then we can track whether it actually happens, where it goes well and how it can do better. Unfortunately, if a healthcare professional and a patient have discussed together which care suits someone best, that doesn't mean that someone gets that care. There are a number of perverse incentives in the system, which counteract tailor-made care. I would like to mention a number of examples of this and to hear a response from the Minister. In the first place, I refer to the problem of wrong beds. Unfortunately, this is already such a phenomenon that it has been given a separate name. It is about the fact that, if people have to go to a specialised healthcare institution acutely, there is a discussion about the payment title. This is especially true if this occurs on weekends or Friday afternoons. This puts people in the hospital as a last resort. This is shoving people off. It is not appropriate care, it is not human and therefore undesirable. I ask the Minister to carry out an analysis in consultation with the field and to find a solution. Not the system and the payment title should be central, but people who need care. There are also good examples of care providers who have ideas on how to become more patient-oriented. They want to innovate care with their ideas, but the system blocks this development. The physiotherapists have submitted a number of proposals to the Quality Institute, allowing expensive, incriminating treatments in the hospital to be moved to the home situation. The Quality Institute has set it aside, because it does not give this priority. How is this possible? Better care for less money and the Quality Institute says: that is not a priority for us? What does the Minister think of this and what is she going to do about this priority? There are also specialist groups of doctors in hospitals who want to make care more patient-oriented. They want to get rid of departments that work alongside each other, and they want to move towards targeted care paths per disease. How will the Minister support them? What space does the Minister give them? And what does the minister do if the health insurance company doesn't want to cooperate? How does such a proposal fit in with the letter sent by the Minister on Together Deciding, which provides additional scope for regulation? And who ultimately decides on such an experiment? Is that the Quality Institute, is it the health insurance company or is it the doctor with the patient? Another problem we see is that the directives do not cooperate, but limit. Directives come into being in a very tough process and ensure that people are not able to respond quickly and innovatively, but that it takes five years. That is why I ask the Minister how guidelines can be made more dynamic and what role the Quality Institute has to help the doctors who are doing so well. This system is very focused on compensating for the existing supply of care rather than going along with the changing world. Skype, healthy apps, interactive information; it's all possible. Unfortunately, the system blocks this, because the system is focused on filling beds and paying for the existing healthcare offer. How is the Minister going to steer care innovation from a quality point of view, so that these new opportunities are available to everyone and not just to the higher-educated people? Finally, I come to the issue of health insurers. People need to be able to trust that the health insurance company buys sufficient and good care. However, the practice is that both insured and caregivers are dissatisfied with the health insurance provider. They're not allies working together on good care. This lacks support and legitimacy. That's worrying for an organization that's spending our bounty money. The purchase takes place mainly on price, concludes the NZa, and there is great discontent about the way in which contracts are contracted. The market doesn't control itself. That is why political guidance is needed, so that quality care is purchased and not just based on price. There's no point in switching either. All health insurers do not meet the requirements.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u222	Mrs Bouwmeester points out that political direction is needed so that health insurers buy the right things. What does Mrs Bouwmeester now ask of the Minister? What's she gonna do?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u223	We have four proposals for this. My time was running out, so I'm glad Mrs. Bruins Slot is asking her question. I will go into that, but I think it is important to indicate before that what we learn from the Fyra Committee. There was a supervisor who said: we're not testing content at all, we're just looking at the process. The Chamber now says: how could we let that happen? We now have a supervisor in care who says: it is not going well, we do not check on content and a bit on process and we see that there is a price buy-in. If we in the Chamber see that things are not going well, we must now adjust to avoid having a parliamentary inquiry in a number of years' time. To this end, I make four proposals. First of all, do we want the health insurance company not only to review the process, but are the purchasing conditions public? test but also for content. Is the quality determined by the voice of the insured person or is it a process that a buyer does on his own? Secondly, we really want to test whether the drawing at the cross has ended. The physiotherapists say: what has gotten us over the past period; we have just been given a little longer time to sign at the cross. Thirdly, we want the members' councils of health insurers to be strengthened. They must have the right of consent, their own budget and their own support. They should deal with financial decisions, for example on the spending of profits and also on the services provided by the health insurance provider. If you do not give them power, then there is no counterpower and there is no participation. The same also applies to patient and client councils. They deserve their position, otherwise the power will remain in control and people will remain dissatisfied. Finally, we want residents in the region who depend on care to have control over what care comes in their region. It is too crazy to say that we have arranged for the participation of bike paths and motorways, but that if a hospital threatens to fall, we have built up together in the debate on the Dokkum hospital, and it is said that we are not all about that. No one's going over it except the hospital and the health insurance company. There is no support and no legitimacy, so that should be better. The NZa should test that too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u224	You have technically packed a lot of your text in response to an interruption. I've allowed that once, but I'm not going through with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u225	Mrs Bouwmeester said in her introduction: we have to learn from the Fyra Committee of Inquiry; if we as a Chamber do not adjust the care now, we will run into a parliamentary survey. According to the PvdA, how bad is the Minister's policy at the moment, that we are at risk of running into a parliamentary inquiry?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u226	It is not a question of the Minister's policy, it is a question of the regulator making a market scan, which states that the price is the most expensive. We all note, Minister and Chamber, that we do not want that. So we have to change it, because the market does not do that by itself. We have put forward four proposals for this. In order to ensure that quality becomes decisive, patients and doctors should be listened to. Together they must see what quality is. A health insurance provider should not go through that process alone, that must be done with the insured. Their voice must be heard. They don't have a vote, so we have to make sure they get a vote. Care must be taken to ensure that purchases are made on the basis of quality. As a Chamber, we must do the most we can. We have the opportunity now, because the supervisor says it's not going well. Some health insurance companies have shown in the last ten years that they can't handle it themselves. So we have to adjust. Anyone who has ideas for this is welcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u227	Mrs Bouwmeester has indeed made a number of proposals. These proposals are interesting, because they touch on a number of points that I would like to talk about. She mentioned, among other things, the raising of the good conversation and the provision of understandable information. Mrs Bouwmeester has asked a lot of questions about this to the Minister. What does the PvdA stand for?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u228	If you see how the payment title dbc is set, you will notice that it is focused on operating as much as possible. The sooner you put the knife in someone, the more money you make. The doctors say: no, we want to have a quiet conversation in front to see if the patient can handle a certain operation. That's why you're gonna have to shift money to that good conversation as a base. You avoid unnecessarily burdensome operations, but you also save a lot of money, because you do not provide unnecessary care. We therefore call on the Minister to come forward with new financial arrangements. The second question was about understandable information, which is still not the norm. The norm is that you get a leaflet, but a lot of people are not well informed. We have had a citizens' initiative on this. We propose to make understandable information part of the quality policy. You don't just buy in on treatment in a certain hospital, coupled with a number of technical connoisseurs, you make it clear that you don't buy that care until the information is there. It's a way to force it to happen. It is also important that you help the doctors who want it very badly, but cannot carry it out. This brings you together to appropriate care and space for a conversation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u229	I understood something like that, but I can't quite see it yet. That would actually mean stretching up the DOTs, for which more money should be available. Mrs. Bouwmeester says this is a shift. I can imagine, but I'm trying to figure out what she means.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u230	We have a public gallery here, where people probably don't all know what DOTs are.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u231	When I tell you that, it's extremely enlightening. DOT stands for DBC's on the way to Transparency. It's about the way treatments are paid for in a hospital. We had DBs for that, but that's changed. More attention is now being paid to its outcome. Everything you do around a treatment is put in there. So that would also be the conversation for which there should be room. I was wondering how Mrs Bouwmeester sees that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u232	It's not about doing more, it's about doctor and patient doing the right thing. If the pressure to do something is high, people might get the care they don't need. This is unnecessarily burdensome and it can also cause insecurity. The incentive imposed on doctors to treat as soon as possible should be removed. So you can just move the money within the way you're already spending it. So it's not about extra money, it's about moving it. In addition, there is the other story: the viewing and listening money. This is only used in very complex situations, namely in people who are very vulnerable and who have many diseases at the same time. The health insurance company now decides whether or not to use it. We think that, if you want to improve care and improve quality, you should make sure that the doctor is allowed to decide when to use that instrument. You do not have to say that to fit in with the directives. No, it has to be the norm for everyone. The problem is not the directive or a doctor who does not want to, but it is mainly the financial incentive within the system. We want to shift them, so that people eventually get the care they need. For that, you need a conversation and good information.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u233	Mrs Bouwmeester's Labour Party is in a cabinet that makes the health insurance company's power ever greater. I refer to the abolition of free choice of doctors. Although this has been killed in the First Chamber, the new plans are already ready. I call the use of the profits of health insurance companies; they are left out year after year. In her speech, Mrs Bouwmeester says that she is concerned about the power of health insurers. It then comes up with client councils or member councils that should limit the insurer's power. But isn't that the work of Mrs Bouwmeester in the Lower House? Isn't that what she was chosen for? It supports this minister's policy, but that policy only increases power. Client councils aren't supposed to solve this problem, are they? Mrs. Bouwmeester can solve that here in the House of Representatives today, can't she? If she wants to tackle these problems, she has the support of a large part of the Chamber. Why does she want client councils? Why doesn't she want to deal with it here as a representative of the people?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u234	I welcome the support of the PVV Group for the equal sharing of power and counterpower among health insurers. That is not the case at all. Last year, the Chamber said: if you want health insurance companies to be out of control alone, you have to create a contradiction. A motion by Mrs Dik-Faber of the Christian Union was adopted in the First and Second Chambers. The Chamber thought it was important to settle this. However, it is not a question of having a cup of coffee with the driver. It is a question of prior control, so that the wishes are taken into account when it comes to quality of care, service provision, decent policy conditions, but also the use of profit. That's what we want to do. You have to create conflict that is strong. This is not just about the right of consent, but also about support and a budget of its own. If you look at the average client and patient councils, they're being rolled over like that right now, simply because they don't have a position. So I agree with Mrs Klever that it is not a big deal right now. We all have the mouth full of "the patient center." However, if you're talking about how to make sure that patients really have a voice and control instead of having no influence and drinking a cup of coffee, where their desires are central, you need to regulate that more clearly. That is why we are making this proposal now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u235	The key problem is that the health insurance companies have too much power. That is about the only thing we agree on. This is possible because Mrs Bouwmeester agrees with the policy of this cabinet that gives the health insurance companies more and more power. Then she shouldn't set up client councils, but then she should do her job here. She has to tell the minister here that she doesn't want to. If she said that, she would have a majority of the Chamber behind her. Mrs Bouwmeester can help us get a majority to settle that here. Clients' councils are a cloth for bleeding. Mrs. Bouwmeester has to do her job here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u236	Clients' and patient's councils and the member's board at the health insurance company are one aspect of governance. The proposal I have just made is just as far-reaching as the one in the list of four proposals I am making here as a Member of Parliament: I want to make sure that the health insurance provider becomes a service to the insured person. That's what health insurers are for. It is your job as a Member of Parliament to not just shout something that can't, but to come up with proposals that really change something. Another important proposal is that the supervisor ensures that health insurers do what they say to do: be cooperative, and whose law and intent say: become insured. So they do not, and we say that you have to lay down further conditions for the way in which they carry out their work. They can't, the market can't, so you have to adjust. To this end, we have put forward four proposals. You may support them, but if you come up with better proposals, they are also very welcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u237	Mrs Dik-Faber, I would like to say something, not because it is you. This debate must also end someday, so no repetition of moves. I won't let you. If you have a new point, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u238	I have a supplementary question on the Members' Councils. I fully agree with Mrs Bouwmeester that we should better position them, also in connection with the Christian Union motion adopted last year on the cooperative role of health insurers. How do we prevent the members' councils from becoming part of the whole system and being swallowed up by it? How do we ensure that they are given an independent position and can therefore be a trap for the health insurance provider?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u239	That is a very fair question from Mrs Dik-Faber. According to the signals from the field, the proposals that are being developed do not contribute to the fact that people really have a voice. The crazy situation is that the works council gets all the support we need. We also think that employee participation is important that the board of directors and the supervisory board have budget and support, but that those who care, the patients, do not have that. The board of directors in the care claims to be very much in favour of control. However, there is no own budget and no support either. As a chamber, we already know that if we do not make a strong case, there will be no control. Mrs Dik-Faber says she does not want a new institution on behalf of the insured or the patients, but if we do not choose to do so, we will keep what we now have. Then we have patient and client councils that are allowed to drink mainly for the form of coffee, but which have quite little to say. You need to find a way to make the voice of those who care, the patients or the insured better heard. If they can't do that themselves, you need to see who you put on a representative council to represent them. In a nursing home with residents, for example, the weather is different than in this case. At least you have to get backup. After all, if we do not do this as a Chamber, we accept that patient and client councils can mainly drink coffee...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u240	That's what you said. Is the answer not clear to you, Mrs Dik-Faber?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u241	No, Mr. Chairman. I am very pleased that the Labour Party says that we should enable member councils to do their job well, including through a bit of financial support. This independence is extremely important to my group. It must be properly legally anchored. One must not become part of the system.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u242	You can say all this in your own term. What is your question to Mrs Bouwmeester?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u243	My question is as follows. Care is about people. I think it is very important that the Members' Councils include the ordinary insured, the ordinary people who ultimately care. So: independent and ordinary people. I hope that the Labour Party and the Christian Union can agree on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u244	My apologies, Mr President, I had just misunderstood the question. Independently chosen, reflecting the adherent care area and accountable to your supporters, but also ensuring that you do a lot with individual client panels, so that not a small club of people decides? I very much agree, that's definitely part of it. If you want to empower people in the region, you have to check how you organize it regionally. I think that's all part of it. In that respect, I very much agree with Mrs Dik-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u245	The PvdA says that the health insurance companies have taken care of us, that they have gained too much power. That's what the SP thinks. In the past, the PvdA concluded that we should not have such a system. In 2006, she voted against the Health Insurance Act and the private, profit-oriented health insurance companies. I see that the PvdA has been turned and is now coming up with proposals. We will judge them, but I don't think they will really solve anything. I have another question. On the website of the PvdA I read in an article by Agnes Wolbert: "(...) let one thing be clear; if patients avoid necessary care because they cannot cough up their own risk it is undesirable for the Labour Party." How should we interpret this quote, given the latest data on care avoidance in the NIVEL and VGZ reports?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u246	You had a lot of assumptions at first, and there was a question. If the chairman will allow me, I'll take a look at the whole thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u247	If you'll do that briefly, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u248	It was a lot of comments, but I'm gonna do my best. Mr Van Gerven asked how our solutions contribute to ensuring that health insurers behave like cooperatives and focus on the wishes of insured persons. First of all, we say that the NZa is right: there is a price buy-in, but we have to buy-in on quality. We therefore want further demands to be made. We want the drawing to stop at the cross. If you conclude a contract with a health insurance company, it is a mutual agreement. So that's not drawing at the cross and that's not: you get a little longer time to draw at the cross. That also means you have to organize the counterpower. It was well-intentioned, but it didn't work out so well. We can fix that now. I really hope the SP is in on this. The fourth proposal is to ensure that people living in the region can help determine what care is to be provided. If a hospital threatens to fall, close or change, give people the opportunity to explore with each other, with all healthcare providers and also with the insured patients and residents, what alternative is there and how it can be organised differently. These are four very concrete ways of helping people who care, namely patients and insured persons, to get a voice again. I therefore consider these four proposals to be very important. The SP wants to change the system and says it's gonna be okay. Systems don't change people. There should be detailed rules that contribute to a culture in which the voice of insured persons is strengthened. That is why we disagree, but I think we have the same end goal: it must be about people again. I therefore hope that the SP will support these proposals. As far as the risk is concerned, it must not be the case that people avoid care because they cannot afford it. That is why we have asked the Minister to examine with the general practitioners and the Consumers' Association what is going on and what we should be doing very specifically. The Minister sent a letter to the Chamber about this. From my point of view, it contains nineteen measures. We believe that these measures are sufficient. If it isn't, we'll call the bell again. The SP can do that to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u249	I notice that the PvdA has been turned. In 2006, the PvdA opposed the introduction of the market system that this cabinet is so behind. In the margins, things are being worked on. We'll see if that gets us anywhere. So that's a turn, but I'm going into the risk. The Labour Party says that avoiding care is not allowed because of its own risk. However, this is a conclusion of the NIVEL report and of the VGZ report. Quite specifically, does the Labour Party support the SP's proposal to halve its own risk and to pay that half out of the public reserves of the health insurance companies? After all, we are really taking a concrete step to avoid any concern.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u250	There was another big assumption. The Labour Party prefers a completely different health system. We don't disagree about that at all, but sometimes you're going to rule because you want to reach something for the country and not just shout things on the sidelines. If you're gonna rule, you're gonna have to compromise. So no other healthcare system has been created, but we can see that the way the healthcare system should work according to the law is not working. Healthcare insurers who say they are cooperatives do not behave like cooperatives. So you're gonna adjust that by making the care a little bit better every day. According to the Labour Party, that works better than changing the whole system, because if you make the health insurance companies all public now, people are not suddenly going to behave differently, apart from the billions that would cost it. So you're gonna have to do more with that. I therefore believe that we agree with each other, but we disagree on the way in which we intend to achieve this. The investigation of the NIVEL came at the request of the Chamber. My colleague Agnes Wolbert has asked us to examine what is going on with the general practitioners, the Consumers' Association and a number of other parties. A specific problem has arisen. The Minister has sent a letter on this subject in which he states: we are going to solve it. We are talking about 19 measures. I will not list all these measures, but they must lead to no one getting care that is needed. If Mr Van Gerven says that there must be a proposal, that something is not right or that it is not, I understand the question. However, the Minister has now laid down something that we believe will prevent the avoidance of concern. We therefore consider this to be very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u251	Mr Van Gerven, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u252	Will the honourable Member of the Labour Party answer my question? Does it agree with the SP's proposal to halve its own risk and pay it out of the healthcare insurers' public reserves?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u253	No, we don't. I would love to do so, because I would like to devote these over-reserves of health insurance companies to this or to innovation, prevention, prevention of diseases and all kinds of new treatment options that doctors support who want to inform their patients well but now have to do so in their spare time. We have the legal problem that we cannot get to the reserves that lie on the shelf. That's not legally possible. As much as I want to, I have to say to my deep frustration that we cannot make such a proposal as long as it is not legally regulated. I will work with the SP and the CDA to see how we can make it legally possible for the reserves to go straight back to the healthcare system. As soon as we have this initiative law, we can do so, but until then, unfortunately, Members of Parliament must also comply with the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u254	So work to be done. The Labour Party makes four good proposals for limiting the power of health insurers. Speech and consent are fine. I want to focus on one of those four proposals: drawing at the cross.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u255	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u256	Mr. Chairman. As you know, several groups have made use of the opportunity to take a start. I would like to clarify my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u257	Okay, but we're gonna have an arrangement later, and I'm gonna have to keep an eye on the clock. Everyone will understand that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u258	I understand. My question is how the Labour Party intends to arrange the drawing at the cross. This is a change in the system. The question is who then directs the procurement process: the health insurance company or the legislator.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u259	That is a very fair question. Thank you for that, because I can explain this now. A health insurance provider has the task of spending the premium money, but that does not mean that he can go his divine course on his own. A health insurance company has a public task that he carries out with public money. He has the responsibility to act on the basis of acceptance: what does a patient need, what does the healthcare provider need to provide? Since the health insurance companies are actually running this process all by themselves because they have once invented: we are private and so we can go our own way, they have no legitimacy of action. That's what I'm questioning here. This must therefore be subject to further conditions. If even the supervisor says it's undesirable, you have to make sure something happens. The Chamber will then have to adjust, and that is why we have made this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u260	I couldn't agree more. That has always been the goal. It is not just about buying on the basis of price, but also on the basis of quality. Several attempts have been made in recent years, but we are also dealing with thousands of healthcare providers, physiotherapists, general practitioners, ergotherapists, so I can continue. My specific question is how Mrs Bouwmeester intends to shape this in that care procurement process. I'm very curious about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u261	That's a fair question. Healthcare insurers often say that there are so many and we cannot talk to everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u262	But what's your answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u263	That is why they say: we will send you a concrete contract and sign it at the cross. As long as it's not about money, you can talk to the profession in a different way about questions like: what is quality, what do you need. You can also set up improvement contracts. Moreover, there are health insurers who do this with professional groups. GPs did it, too. That good trend must be continued, but the NZa must also check if it is happening. If there's no key on it, nothing changes. So you have to lay down more specific conditions: you have to take the voice of the insured and of the caregivers and the process must proceed properly. I think we agree on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u264	A quick question. The fourth proposal concerns regional impact on the health care structure. Can Mrs Bouwmeester indicate how this proposal of the Labour Party fits within the system we now know?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u265	For the Labour Party, the central focus is not on the system but on people. If you look at the system, it means that a health insurance provider must act on the basis of the wishes of insured persons. What's important to them? That they get the care that suits them and that care remains affordable. What you see now is that institutions fall over or that large departments of hospitals close down. There's a trial in the hospital boardroom where the hospital board and the health insurance company decide what to do with each other. Then the whole region is in turmoil, because you will only be dependent on care. People then worry: is care available to me when I need it? If there's white smoke, they come out. Then we have a debate in the Chamber. Of course, that's completely undesirable. A private organisation therefore has an expensive duty to create support, not only because it contributes to the decision being taken, but also because it improves the quality of care for the people who depend on the health insurance provider. So it's an expensive duty. The duty of taking this up is therefore also part of the "system responsibility" if you want to use the word. We see that there is now a hole, because there is no steering. If politics thinks this is undesirable, it has the task of adjusting, in such a way that a decision is taken on the basis of acceptance and control of people in the region. Then you have better care, with support, without unrest.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u266	The adjustment of support for proposals to maintain a regional structure will always be part of the structure of the obligation of care already in place. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u267	The duty of care is, of course, the basis. People should be given the care they deserve. If you use that very tightly, you say: there is a gentleman in a boardroom of a white factory; he decides what we are going to do and you have nothing to say about it. Of course, it's not meant to be like that. Nor is that the intention of the system, and it is certainly not the intention of the law. The only way to get things right with each other is if you consult. Now we see too often that the consultation takes place afterwards, when there has already been a commotion, or when there is a debate in the Chamber. We don't want that. We want it to be a process of consultation with all stakeholders, so that it can be organised with each other and with a view to quality and the people who matter. That's just a matter of decency.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u268	You're finishing up.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u269	Yeah, I'm running out of time. I'm going to my last piece. We can be proud of the many possibilities that care offers us and of the enormous enthusiasm of people who work in care. However, there is also a need to switch from systems to people, so that care will fit people's needs and not the system is central, but it is about people. That's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u270	I would have preferred one speaker to speak before the suspension, but we are not going to save it. I shall suspend the sitting until 2.10 p.m.
