ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-tweedekamer-5.u1	Mr. Chairman. Children are vulnerable and deserve our protection. That is why everyone who wants to work in education must present a statement about the behaviour (vog). This applies to teachers, but also to residents, regardless of whether they do so from a professional agency or as a volunteer. That's right. The CDA welcomes the deployment of voluntary resting forces. They are a pillar for schools and parents. However, we want parents to be sure that all volunteers in the school have such an explanation of behaviour. It is therefore worrying that last Saturday we were able to read in the Haarlems Dagblad that far from all volunteers have a statement on behaviour, whereas the education inspection should ensure that it is done. We do not want to wait until things go wrong, because as the National Parents' Council has said: if things go wrong, things go well. That is why we have a number of questions for the Secretary of State. What has his policy been in recent years with regard to the explanation of the behaviour of volunteers in education? Does the Secretary of State have any insight into the number of employees who don't have one of these? If he has no knowledge of this, what will he do to obtain it? Does the Secretary of State intend to ensure from now on that volunteers who work as a resident also have a vog? Finally, I would like to ask the Secretary of State the following. Partly on the basis of a proposal from the CDA, volunteers from sports associations, for example, can get a free vog. Is the Secretary of State prepared to consider whether such a free vog is also possible for volunteers in education?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. Mr Rog has a point to make when he says that schools have a great responsibility when it comes to children's safety. I hope that I will be able to hear that again when we talk later this week about the Social Security Bill at school, in which we are going to lay down that responsibility for education. Residents, whether they're volunteers or not, have an obligation to consult a vog, as well as teachers. A school should keep that in its records. The inspection then takes care of this, along the path of risk-driven supervision: if there are complaints or concerns about a school, then it will be checked whether this is in order. At the same time, I can tell Mr Rog that the number of complaints about remaining in the inspection can be counted on one hand. In practice, this often seems to go fairly well.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-tweedekamer-5.u3	The Secretary of State did not answer my question about the free vog for the volunteers in education. I would like to hear a reflection on this, because volunteers who work with children and volunteer for the school, a sports club or an association are so valuable. If they receive a fee of just over €4.50, the school is already fined. We may be able to deal with them with this. Is the Secretary of State prepared to investigate whether it is possible to give them a free vog? That's the first question. My other question is this. The inspection will have to oversee it. The Secretary of State recognizes that here, too. That's good. We know that the PO Council and the inspection do not get that insight actively. Does the Secretary of State therefore share the view of the CDA that we should point out to schools that they should ask for that statement about the behaviour of all their staff and volunteers?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-tweedekamer-5.u4	The answer to the last question is yes immediately. We have always been clear in the past that you need a vog for teachers, as well as for people who are active in the residence, whether they are professionals or volunteers. This is not the case for other volunteers. For a lice mother or preacher, you don't have to have an explanation of the behavior. If there is any ambiguity about this, I will make it clear once again to the field of education. As far as I am concerned, there can be no ambiguity about the laws and regulations. The second question was whether I could investigate whether we could make the vog free of charge. I don't have to investigate that. That is a matter of political will. I don't think there's a free deal. This simply costs money, so if you want to make this free of charge for all volunteers in education, then the taxpayer has to pay it left or right. I don't know exactly where to get that money right now, so I'm not prepared to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-tweedekamer-5.u5	It is good to hear the Secretary of State's undertaking that he will once again encourage schools to have such a statement of behaviour available to their staff and the volunteers. As far as the second point is concerned, I have to say that, fortunately, we provide volunteers in sports associations and other youth associations with a free explanation of behaviour, but that this action is not allowed for schools, whereas it also falls within the category of young people and volunteering. My group regrets that. This means that we have a political difference of opinion, which I will have to act on at another time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-tweedekamer-5.u6	The Secretary of State no longer needs a response. I thank him for coming to the Chamber. This brings to an end oral Question Time.
