ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u1	Mr. Chairman. The Chief of Staff of the National Police puts his finger in a very nasty place. I was shocked when I read what he wrote in his internal blog to his agents and executives. He wrote: "A poison creeps into our organization, the poison of exclusion, of discrimination." I apologize for the language in the quotes I will use. He writes that cops in the police guard hear their colleagues talking about those "cunt Muslims" and that they think that "we should burn those mosques" because then the problem is solved. These are colleagues with whom they should shoulder-to-shoulder on the street. A police organisation which must be of unspoken behaviour and which must combat discrimination and racism outside is therefore not safe internally. I would like to hear the Minister's response to this blog and what actions he has taken to address this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u2	For the Acts, I would just like to point out that these were quotes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u3	I apologize for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u4	There are also people in the public gallery, so it is always good to emphasise that clearly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u5	Mr. Chairman. Let me say first of all that I share the concerns expressed by Mr Marcouch and that I am pleased that he raises this issue in Question Time. Discrimination is unacceptable, both within the police and by the police in relation to society. Like the Chief Constable and, I presume, Mr Marcouch, I too take a firm stand against the exclusion of Muslim agents by their colleagues. The police are here for everyone. It's supposed to radiate the police, internally, but also externally. The public must be able to rely on this, but so must colleagues. A police force without the trust of society is not a police force and a corps without the confidence of one's own, several employees are not. I therefore support the Chief Constable in his efforts to create a diverse corps that connects with society in the neighbourhoods and neighbourhoods. It is a prerequisite for the effective handling of crime and discrimination, but also of jihadism. Diversity, as I said recently in general consultation on the police, must be an integral part of the police's strategic policy. It is desirable to seek to reflect as much as possible. The Chief Constable has acknowledged that discrimination and exclusion are unacceptable. He didn't just write that in his blog, but it was also included in the police staff magazine entitled "Muslim in the Corps." The entire magazine shows what it is like to be a Muslim in the police force and to get the comments that Mr Marcouch has read out. Because the chief of police, the entire department and I, as Minister of Security and Justice, find this unacceptable, all kinds of attention is given to this. This is not only happening in this blog and in this monthly magazine; the police will also organise a number of meetings with the so-called top 61 in the short term. This will ensure that this form of exclusion is addressed vigorously from the point of view of management.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u6	I thank the Minister for the answer. Of course, I agree with the story of how it should be. It seems to me that discrimination within the police organization is unacceptable. However, the chief of police is calling the bell; of course, he writes this for a reason. He talks about very specific incidents. I would like to know from the Minister what is happening in the police organisation at the moment when such a concrete incident is detected within the organisation. Next, I find it shocking that the Chief Constable tells us about people who, because they are Muslims, are being pulled off the streets or arrested without any basis in criminal proceedings or criminal law. What happened to those people? Is the minister gonna figure this out? Is it clear? Have these people been punished? Are they still with the police, or are they, as it should be, inactive or maybe even fired? After all, people with such views and with this attitude do not belong to the police. So I do not want to hear a normative story from the Minister, but I want to know what is actually happening in order to ensure that police culture is safe for the staff and therefore also for agents with a Muslim background or another ethnic background. What's the Minister gonna do to get people with that background? What happens very concretely when these things happen? Are these police officers being called upon to do this? What happened to those civilians? We have asked questions about this before to the minister's predecessor. Then the chief of police denied that there was ethnic profiling or that there was any discrimination by the police at all. Now we're reading another story, so something's going on. I would very much like to hear from the Minister in detail what is happening outside the organisation at the level of operation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u7	Let me say first of all that Mr Marcouch now raises a number of points in his question. I'll try to treat all three in the minute I have. The first is the number of complaints against the police about this problem. For the time being, that doesn't seem so bad. As I've been told, it's a few complaints. I would also like to ask the Court to be more fully informed on this, because I am keen to be more precise about how this is being dealt with. This is about the relationship between the police and society, in which there can be no discrimination. I agree with Mr Marcouch. The second point is the cultural change within the police. What is happening there in concrete terms? I mentioned that a meeting will soon be held with the top 61 of the police force. I will check within the police organisation what is being done with the complaints that come from the organisation and how they are being dealt with. I'll inform the Chamber about that. Let me then point out that this whole element will be dealt with again thanks to Deputy Prime Minister Asscher, who paid attention to this in his Martin Luther King speech. He said that we should urge employers to have a good diversity policy. As Minister of Security and Justice, I will do the same for the National Police. We're gonna have to do that with a hell of a dose of impatience. I'd like to take the challenge of including it in my regular conversations with the police.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u8	I welcome the Minister's commitments. I understand that the Minister is going to see exactly what happened in those specific incidents and that he will find out what has been done with them. For the record, I think it is extremely important, because this problem is not new. Every time I hear it, it scares me. We need to stop it, especially within the police and beyond. Does the Minister agree with me that it is now time for a firm change of course, including within the police, in the field of recruiting and changing this culture to ensure that the police are of undisputed behavior, precisely because the authority declines when you are not of undisputed behavior and you have this kind of discrimination and poison in your organization? Does the Minister agree with me that we need more than we intend to do and that we need a radical change in the direction of cultural change and diversity? Will the Minister support that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u9	Let me say first of all that there is already a great deal of attention to diversity policy at the moment. In the last general discussion, I had an extensive exchange of views with the members of your Chamber. I do not have the impression that these incidents require a change of course. I will inform the Chamber very carefully, because I also think it is important that we make it clear how many incidents we are dealing with. It is precisely the fact that this issue has been raised by the Chief Constable that indicates that the course is right, that it is brought to the attention and that the Chief Constable and the Chief Constable think it is unacceptable, as Mr Marcouch also says. There is no reason for me to say that there should be a change of course. I welcome the line taken: we are not going to accept this, it is unacceptable and we are taking action. Now the only question that remains is that of a fair question by Mr Marcouch....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I'll inform the Chamber about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u10	That was Mr Marcouch's only question, but there are still a few questioners at the microphone. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Bontes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u11	This chief of police is putting the entire police organization away as intolerant to Muslims. I know the police organization from the inside out. It is not right; what is being said here is not right. This chief of police first pleads for the abolition of the language test, so that ethnic policemen can more easily enter. Now he's putting the whole police organization away as intolerant. You can't do that. Does the Minister still have this politically correct Chief of Staff under control?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u12	I do not recognize myself in Mr Bontes' analysis of the Chief Constable's blog. I recommend that Mr Bontes read the March edition of the police magazine. What it says is about incidents where Muslim agents indicate that there is a lot of fear and ignorance in the corps and that there is a lot of fear of Islam among colleagues. Those are all incidents, but they are serious. I think it is very good, unlike Mr Bontes' analysis, that the Chief Constable is paying attention to that. This also fits in with a professional organisation that is the National Police.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u13	I have heard the Minister say that he is pleased that Mr Marcouch asked his question. I share that joy. I wonder, however, whether the Minister is taking such a strong stand against the following quote. That quote is not to be surprised by Mr Marcouch himself: "As far as the new agents are concerned, the Chief Constable would be well advised to check his applicants for PVV-like views that are destructive and fatal for police work. Especially with the police, the distinction between good and evil is so important (...)." Does the Minister also take a stand against this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u14	I don't think it's right for me to respond to opinions expressed by individual Members of Parliament. I have discussed the assumption policy of the police in detail with the Chamber. The language test is an important part of this. In general, I think it is very good that we are looking at whether there is any reason to fear that candidate police officers are not sufficiently tolerant. However, it is not up to me to make the link with their political preference.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u15	Mrs Helder, your second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u16	I would indeed like to ask a second question. The chief of police uses big words: "A poison is creeping into our organization." The chief of police writes that discrimination is unacceptable, and I agree with him, but then he writes: "I don't know if the Moroccan agent is still in our service." If the Chief Constable thinks discrimination is so important, why didn't he help her? He doesn't even know if this lady is still in service. What does the Minister think of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u17	I'm afraid that question belongs to the Chief Constable. Mrs Helder can find him without any doubt to ask him that question. She is asking me for an opinion on a position of the Chief Constable, but it is not up to me as a minister to respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u18	Mrs...Mr. Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u19	Indeed, Mr Segers. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u20	There were some other ladies on the microphone. That's why.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u21	They're shocking quotes. In this case, the Minister and the Chief Constable are right to distance themselves from terrible statements. But if we do, we'll have to go beyond the level of anecdotal evidence. We're not much further. If it is a shocking problem and there is indeed terrible discrimination, then we need to know the extent of it. Is the Minister prepared to investigate this further before we use very big words about a situation that may not go beyond anecdotal evidence?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u22	The word "anecdotal" has two meanings. In this case, I understand the intention, but the word can also have the meaning of a joke. I know that Mr Segers does not mean it, but this subject is far from funny. I think everyone realizes that. I said that in my letter I wanted to focus on the number of complaints from society about discriminatory police behaviour, but also on the way in which the police deal with complaints in this area. The purpose of this is to indicate how serious the situation is. My assessment, as I said to Mr Marcouch, is that there is no need for a change of course, but that this blog is part of a policy that is good, because it is realized that there is an occasional problem that needs to be addressed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u23	The Chief Constable's statements show that things are going on. It is the first time in the existence of the National Police, which has not existed for so long, that such statements are made. The Minister states that there should be no change of course, but I would ask him to strengthen the course. What I hear from the Minister is that there are steps in the right direction. That's a piece of diversity policy, that's a meeting with 61 people. But what is needed is a firmer course. What's the Minister gonna do to put that in?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u24	I do not recognize Mr Kuzu's idea that there would be no solid course. I think the blog as such can be called quite firm. It has rightly received a great deal of attention and I am pleased that the Deputy Prime Minister has paid attention to it. Furthermore, I believe that the measures already taken by the corps leadership, such as the meeting of the top 61 police officers who are going to ensure that this issue is on the agenda from above, indicate a substantial change of course. So I do not recognize myself in the analysis given by Mr Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u25	We discussed this at length last Thursday. I think it is extremely good that the Chief Constable manifests himself as a figurehead of the National Police in this way. I have another type of question for the Minister. If that's what you want to recruit among new Dutch people, I'd like to call them "recruitment," then as an organisation you have to say that you want to bring them in as well. It is therefore not only an internal action but also an outward-looking action. What's the Minister gonna do about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u26	I'm sure that's the Chief Constable's policy, too. We have not explicitly discussed it in general consultation last week, but it is clear that the Chief Constable's intention is to ensure, because of his wish and his desire, which I share, to allow the police to reflect society, that the police are a generous and interesting workplace for all those people who allow a reflection of society. This means that you have to make a very positive commitment to this; there is no other way. So I understand the Chief Constable is doing that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u27	I fully agree with the Chief Constable that he raises the issue of discrimination within the Corps. There must be no discrimination. The VVD is also very clear about that. I have a question about the second thesis in his blog. That's actually an implicit statement, in which he actually says that cops act too prematurely when it comes to Muslim suspects. I find that quite an accusation against all of his agents. How does the Minister view that? Is he prepared to investigate whether these are a number of incidents or whether they occur on a more structural basis?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u28	I understand Mrs Tellegen's question. I meant to answer that question when Mr Marcouch asked him. I want to look at what is being complained about internally in relation to this form of discrimination within the police force. I would also like to look at the complaints from society to the police about this problem. I'll inform the Chamber about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u29	It's very good that the Chief Constable puts the finger on the sore spot. He refers to his staff and asks them to live in people with a Muslim background who do the same work. But, of course, they have to be there. We had a National Expertise Centre Diversity. That was lifted this year under the responsibility of the previous Minister for Security and Justice. At the police academy are mainly people with an incredibly white background. They're all the same color, I'll say. There is no diversity policy. Now, in response to Mrs Berndsen, the Minister says: we must, of course, be positive. What does that mean in concrete terms? What is the Minister going to do in concrete terms to encourage diversity in the police, so that the police are actually a reflection of society?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u30	Let me make the following point: I have also said this in general consultation. The starting point of the assumption policy at the police academy is and remains quality. That is regardless of origin, origin or any form of ethnic origin. Above all, we need high-quality police. I fully agree with the Chief Constable when he says that the aim is to have a reflection of society. However, I have also said in general consultation that this should never mean that the quality is impaired. At the same time, I said at the Chamber's questions that the language test used remains both in the front and in the back, because communication is of great importance. Within these frameworks, we must strive to reflect society as widely as possible. I do not feel that it is necessary for me, as a minister, to take any further steps in this regard. For the record, in response to Mrs Kooiman's question, I will take that aspect into account in the letter I will send to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u31	You promised a letter to the Chamber. There is still a general discussion on discrimination. The first term of office has already taken place. There will be a second deadline. The Court would be very pleased to receive, for the second time, the letter you promised with the commitments, so that the Chamber could involve them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u32	That is possible, but it is a consultation that I do not think I can attend.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u33	We are not going to solve that within this Question Time, but in a different way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u34	My suggestion is that this could perhaps be discussed at a subsequent general consultation on the police.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u35	We're gonna figure this out another way. Thank you for your commitments, your answers and for coming to the Chamber. You can stay for a while, because we are about to vote and we always enjoy having a member of the cabinet present. This brings to an end oral Question Time.
