ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-7.u1	The speaking time in this VOC is two minutes, including the submission of any motions. I give the floor to the first speaker, Mrs Siderius.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-7.u2	Mr. Chairman. In the AO we talked about TSN. It's on the verge of bankruptcy. The SP has indicated that it considers it important that the 12,000 staff can at least maintain the current working conditions and the 40,000 clients their home care and the familiar face associated with it. I shall table the next motion for a resolution on this matter. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas TSN has requested suspension of payment;]] [[Notes that maintaining the relationship between client and trusted home care employee of TSN Home Care should be maintained as far as possible and that good working conditions and a good salary should be guaranteed for current employees of TSN, as laid down in the agreement concluded between government, trade unions and municipalities;]] [[calls on the Government to inform the Chamber for the debate on TSN Home Care about how this can be secured and about the latest state of affairs, including in the light of the joint approach to the labour market in care agreed with municipalities and unions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Siderius and Mr Otwin van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34104-90]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-7.u3	I see that Mr Potters wishes to interrupt, but I would like to say in advance, also in relation to the clock, that I do not want a repetition of previous debates but an explanation of the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-7.u4	That's exactly what we were supposed to do. I would like to explain what the intention behind this motion is. Is the SP's intention to try to save TSN from bankruptcy in this way? Is she trying to get the Chamber to pronounce that in this way? Is she also trying to instruct the Secretary of State to do so by means of this motion? Or is the intention different?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-7.u5	Definitely another intent. The SP has the intention that the 40,000 people who receive home care via TSN will retain their care and preferably also the trusted home care worker. In addition, we consider it important that TSN's 12,000 employees not only retain their jobs but also the current working conditions. We are not so much concerned with the logo of TSN. We consider job retention and maintenance of care to be important, hence this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-7.u6	Maybe I should put it very precisely. I understand the concerns. I think we all share those concerns. But the Secretary of State is not supposed to be ordered to save TSN from destruction at all costs. The motion is not meant to prevent TSN from going bankrupt, but to see how we can arrange something for the employees, for example the guidance from work to work. Is that how I'm supposed to understand it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-7.u7	The operative part does not state that there should be a rescue plan for TSN. I recommend to the group of the VVD to read the motion carefully and to re-assess its judgment on it. We will be asking for this motion to be put to the vote this afternoon in the course of the work, because tomorrow evening the debate on TSN will take place. This may need to be postponed if the Secretary of State is to do so. I have one other motion that concerns the reimbursement of health care supervisors.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-7.u8	I have to watch the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-7.u9	Sure, but it's just a operative. There is a lot of fuss, because the supervisors have given themselves a lot of salary. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to remove immediately the possibility of increasing the reimbursement of health care supervisors,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Siderius. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34104-91]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-7.u10	No, I've got 15 seconds left.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-7.u11	It's an exception that motions are so short. Thank you very much for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-7.u12	Mr. Chairman. The Central Administration Office itself came up with the alarming message that some 7,000 people are still waiting for their bill for the Wmo's own contribution throughout 2015. In general consultation, the Secretary of State did not go beyond the announcement that he would resume talks with the municipalities and that payment arrangements would have to be made. People get into trouble because of the delay and that doesn't fit in with a reliable government. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that at the moment 7,000 people are still waiting for their own contributions throughout 2015;]] [[considers that in December a reliable government cannot send an account over the whole year;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the accounts for the own contribution to the care are present with the clients within six weeks of the end of the period and, if this period is exceeded, to cancel the own contribution for that period,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Agema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34104-92]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-7.u13	Mr. Chairman. I shall make one motion, which deals with the relationship between general provisions and customization. There's a lot of uncertainty about that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that municipalities have a legal obligation to achieve results in terms of providing adequate social support;]] [[Whereas there are signs that a general provision is sometimes offered where customisation is desirable and necessary;]] [[calls on the government to discuss this with the VNG, and to inform the Chamber of the results achieved in the next progress report,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Bergkamp. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34104-93]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-7.u14	Mr. Chairman. In recent times we have talked very often in this Chamber about the debacle of household care and the too low rates for which this care is contracted. I have previously made proposals in the Chamber to investigate tariffs. How high are they and are they consistent with what's in the Wmo? It says that the rates must be in line with the quality we want to achieve and the level of pay that goes with them. I've always had a majority against me. Given the motion that has just been tabled, it seems that something is finally going to happen in the area of household care. For the future, appointments were made last Friday. However, the Wmo is wider than just household care. The Wmo also includes daily spending, accompaniment and additional public transport. It is precisely on all these parts that we are getting more and more reports that the rates are far too low. Two or three tens per part of the day are paid for daily expenditure. A company providing additional public transport loses a third of its turnover while its costs remain the same. Organisations must close the doors of day care for people with dementia, because this very important form of care cannot be provided at the fixed rate. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is a great deal of unrest and uncertainty about the level of agreed rates in home care despite WMO Article 2.6.6;]] [[noting that the government is in consultation with field parties such as Actiz, CNV, FNV and VNG to find a solution for domestic care or care. home support;]] [[Whereas, according to providers, there are also too low fares in the WMO for day-to-day use, guidance and additional public transport;]] [[calls on the Government to investigate the rates of daily use, guidance and additional public transport and to inform the Chamber of the results of the summer recess,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Keijzer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34104-94]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-7.u15	I am tabling this motion in order to prevent us from having exactly the same discussions we are having about domestic care, about other important forms of home support and care.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-7.u16	We'll wait until the Secretary of State has all the motions in his possession.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-7.u17	Mr. Chairman. I will proceed immediately to discuss the motions. Strictly speaking, I am in the motion-Siderius/Otwin van Dijk on piece No. 90 asked the Chamber for the debate on TSN Home Care to provide further information on a number of issues. I'm willing to do that. However, I would like to make a comment on the operative part. I pay particular attention to two things. First of all, let us make sure that people need that care, they can get it. Secondly, let us ensure that we guarantee as much as possible that people whose jobs are at risk can be kept as much employment as possible, against acceptable working conditions. Mr Potters' question was entirely justified. We should not decide here in this Chamber on what happens after the suspension of payment. The primary interest of the Chamber and of me is the question of how we can ensure that the necessary care is provided and how best we can keep jobs intact. That's what I want to do, too. That is a common goal. I am also prepared to inform the Chamber, as requested, of the state of play, but I would like to make two comments. Mrs Siderius knows that all kinds of laws and regulations impose conditions on what she asks. I should like to comment on this in the letter requested. She should also give me the opportunity to make that letter, but she said that this would lead us to have that debate or that AO a little later. With these comments, I fully respond to the request that is being made to me. Am I prepared to write a letter informing the Chamber about this? The answer is yes. With that interpretation, I leave the ruling on the motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-7.u18	Does that raise any questions, Mrs Siderius?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-7.u19	Yes. I think we should be very precise now, because the motion is indeed asking for information, but the Secretary of State is also asked how two things can be secured: firstly, that people keep their care, but also the familiar home care, and secondly, that job retention but also that the current working conditions are maintained. That is a crucial part of the operative part of this motion. I would like to make it clear to the Secretary of State that on this point we do expect something from that letter, in particular on the possibilities for securing these two points.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-7.u20	If I understand correctly, the word 'this' in the request therefore refers to maintaining the good working conditions and the good salary.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-7.u21	This isn't about the stakes, it's about the final outcome. I believe that we share the view that this is not about the discussion about what is going to happen to the institutions, but about how we are going to ensure that care is kept as secure as possible for those who need it, how we are going to ensure that the relationship between caregiver and patient can remain intact and how we are going to ensure that this is done under good working conditions. That is the commitment we have in common. Mrs Siderius also knows that there are all kinds of legal conditions under which this can take place. All kinds of laws have to do with the acquisition of the employership or with what happens in the event of suspension or bankruptcy. I will outline all these conditions. We are clear about the stakes. Mrs Siderius should not ask me for an obligation to produce results, because there are a number of other conditions for this. I should like to make this point in order to inform the House of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-7.u22	In my view, it is important that we do this very precisely, because the operative part of the motion says: 'to inform about how this can be secured'. "This" refers to the role of the Cabinet or you as Secretary of State. I think that should be absolutely clear. You say you're going to inform us about the situation at TSN and about what's going on there. I like this active attitude, but guaranteeing it cannot mean that these good working conditions and maintaining all jobs will become your responsibility. Or is that the case? After all, I think that the motion contains something more than just informing the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-7.u23	That is precisely my comment. This is now, of course, mainly for the directors at this stage, in consultation with the municipalities. There are also other scenarios in which other things need to be negotiated with each other, for example by the municipalities in consultation with the healthcare providers. There are a number of legal framework conditions for this, but this is mainly between municipalities and healthcare providers or, as at present, between municipalities and directors. So I can't say right now that I'm going to bail that out. It is, of course, very clear what our commitment is: good care for those who need it and ensure that employment and working conditions are decent. That is my commitment and I understand that this is also the commitment of directors and municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-7.u24	If I understand correctly, the commitment is mainly about the active information to the Chamber on this point. The Secretary of State monitors the trial, but he is not responsible for securing the terms of employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-7.u25	No, regardless of my commitment, which is to take good care of those who need it and ensure that employment and good working conditions remain intact. That remains my commitment, but in the light of the legislation we have in place, some can guarantee this and others can promote it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-7.u26	I'm just here for the trial. The motion clearly states "how this can be secured" and "this" refers to good working conditions and a good salary. I asked Mrs Siderius earlier and she nodded in agreement. That is what is being asked in the motion and we must take motions seriously, as chairman of your presidency.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-7.u27	That seems to me too; we are not standing here for nothing. We want to secure these two things, which I have already mentioned three or four times today. We ask the Secretary of State how this can be achieved; this is requested in the operative part of the motion. This is indeed about care continuity while maintaining a familiar face and job retention with the current working conditions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-7.u28	That's exactly what I'm talking about. If I am asked to inform the Chamber of how this can be secured, I can outline it. I can also outline the financial and administrative framework for this. This motion does not ask me to guarantee this, because we need other parties within the framework of the laws and regulations that apply to it. If I may interpret the motion in this way, I'll leave the verdict to the Chamber. If I'm asked to secure this, that's too far. Then I'll have to discourage the motion. I would rather not, because I want us to have a common commitment to ensure that this is done.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-7.u29	The CDA Group will allow people to keep the same care, but we cannot arrange that in the Chamber. I am concerned about what we are doing here today. The Secretary of State says he's not responsible for working conditions. That is true, and employers are responsible for that. However, he is responsible for the implementation of Article 2.6.6 which states that the rates agreed are in line with the quality you require and the working conditions associated with it. I just said that. He has just concluded an agreement with FNV, CNV and VNG, which states that tariffs must be set for this purpose, but they will start on 1 January 2017. I have repeatedly asked the Secretary of State to investigate the current rates. I have checked and I hear that a large part of the municipalities are below the amount of €22.46. If this motion is adopted and we postpone the debate, will we receive concrete proposals from the Secretary of State next week on what will happen for the existing contracts? If that is not the case, we'll be getting another leafiebla story that will get people nowhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-7.u30	Mrs Keijzer first sketches quite accurately what I am responsible for and not responsible for, but then she seems to ask me to take responsibility for the fact that the price does not exceed a certain level. Of course you can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-7.u31	Mr. Chairman. A point of order. The Secretary of State is twisting my words.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-7.u32	First of all, the Secretary of State finishes his reaction first.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-7.u33	We have agreed in law and regulation under which conditions and conditions the negotiations between municipalities and suppliers take place. We then discussed last few weeks whether these conditions are met or whether they deserve to be tightened up. The Chamber has received a letter on the joint approach I have agreed with the trade unions and the municipalities to further secure this process. In it, my intentions are expressed for the way in which I am going to fill this out. I mentioned the regulations on that point. I think we're in agreement. We do not agree, however, that Mrs Keijzer does not mean that either, at least I hope that we will settle the price for the municipalities in what situation. That really is a responsibility of the municipalities, I agree with her.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-7.u34	Secondly, we are not reopening the discussion. I give you an opportunity for a brief response, Mrs Keijzer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-7.u35	This is what I'm talking about. The Secretary of State will inform the Chamber on this information. He is going to tell how to ensure that a healthy market is eventually created for domestic care. That's what this motion says. I therefore ask him once again whether he is going to say something in this letter about the implementation of Article 2.6.6 Wmo, which states that the tariff must be in line with quality. I am not saying that we have to decide here in The Hague what the amount is. However, municipalities are now much lower everywhere without having a story showing how that happened. That is why we are in the current malaise. I just want to prevent all those who are now watching or hearing this debate from having a dead sparrow in the end next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-7.u36	As a result of the joint approach, I have already written to the Chamber about my intentions. I am happy to explain my intentions on this point, which I have already told the Chamber, in the further letter. This letter concerns another subject, namely the situation at TSN. That was requested in the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-7.u37	I see you want to interrupt again, Mrs Keijzer, but we will proceed with the next motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-7.u38	The motion-Siderius in part No. 91 is in fact not so much about regulation in the area of care but about regulation in the area of good governance and about regulation by the Minister of the Interior on fees for supervisors. This is general regulation applicable to all sectors. The aim of this is to strengthen supervision and ensure that the Law on Standards leads to a normalization of driver's salaries. On the other hand, we want to ensure that care supervisors are able to exercise adequate supervision and to attract people of sufficient quality. It is a general point, which does not say anything about how high the fees in healthcare should be. That discussion should be held more generally at that table. That is why I would like to discourage this motion. In the motion-Agema in part No. 92 the government is invited to ensure that accounts are with clients within six weeks of the end of the period. I also think that the accounts should be with the clients as soon as possible. That is the responsibility of municipalities. We have agreed that a payment arrangement will be provided if information is late or late and the client has to pay the bill. In fact, in the case of the bill one receives, a payment arrangement is offered by default. 1. We have agreed with the municipalities that the accounts will be submitted as soon as possible. 2. If the account is lodged but is not paid, a payment arrangement is offered at the same time. That's what I agreed with the CAK. That's why I'd like to dissuade the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-7.u39	My motion does not at any time speak of a payment arrangement. My motion speaks of something quite different. Indeed, the congregations are about this, but we have made the law. That's the law we have to include that accounts will be with the client within six weeks. And if that is not the case, then the account must be cancelled. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. I don't want to hear a weird story about payment arrangements; I'm not asking for that at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-7.u40	The laws and regulations state that an own contribution is due. This may be collected by the CAK after the information has been received by the CAK. If the information arrives late at the CAK, the accounts will be sent later. These accounts are not stacked; a payment arrangement is then offered. I would not be in favour of abandoning the collection of the own contribution, which is also regulated by law. That's why I'm sticking to my judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-7.u41	I'm not asking the Secretary of State to explain how the system works. I'm just asking him for a reliable government. If a year later people haven't gotten their account, the account of a whole year's own contribution Wmo, can't the government say that those people have to pay even more? My question is very specific. If the government is so badly organized that we are almost a third world country and people have to wait a year for an account for their own contribution, that government should include in its own laws that this should be settled within six weeks and that the amount would otherwise be forgiven.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-7.u42	If only a due payment that comes a little later should be the reason to say something, I'm not for that. However, I am in favour of a proper payment arrangement being agreed if collection is to be made. For that reason, I would like to discourage this motion. In the fourth motion, which in part No. 93, I am asked to talk to the VNG and simply to report on when a general provision is made when customisation is needed. We have repeatedly pointed out to local authorities, on the basis of case law and legal proceedings, that a careful investigation must always be carried out. The municipalities once again point out that this is necessary, I think support for the policy. I should therefore like to leave this motion to the House. In the fifth motion, which in part No. 94 the government is asked to conduct an investigation into daily expenditure rates. I understand Mrs Keijzer's concerns. That is why we regularly check the state of play for the progress reports. If this state of affairs gives rise to further policy, we will do the same. I don't think it's okay to do research every time but in advance. In this way, we radiate the fact that municipalities do not have enough room to make their own policies. If there are signs of further action, then these measures will also be taken, but I am not in favour of checking the municipalities in advance every time with some kind of iron grip and checking whether things are going well. I agree with Mrs Keijzer that we should continue to follow this closely. As it turns out, on the basis of the progress reports, we regularly have a debate on this, but I am not in favour of deciding on a further examination of tariffs. For that reason, I would like to discourage this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-7.u43	Founder Vecht, Beuningen and Leusden are three municipalities that are under €22.46 for domestic care. That's not to say that this is an absolute norm, but if you're underneath it, you have to explain why. Would it not be wise to consider for all these other forms of social support what amount is reasonably appropriate for a high-quality day care for dementia or for supplementary public transport? In this way, we prevent all kinds of beautiful companies, where people can trust, from falling over.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-7.u44	Municipalities are already committed to that. When there is a discussion about whether it is all right, I assume that it is mainly about the relationship between the College and the City Council, which must ensure that it is done. I think that is the right way to do this, unless there are signs that might lead us to believe that this is not going well or causing us to doubt it. In that case, we must appeal to the municipalities again and then we can always consider legislation and regulations. Let us ensure that municipalities make their policies, in accordance with the law and in compliance with the conditions, that they are accountable to the board and that we follow each other here or that the whole system works. I think that's the right order. That is why I think this request is premature and I stand by my judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-7.u45	I thank the Secretary of State for his answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-7.u46	I propose to the House that we vote next Tuesday on the motions that have been tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-7.u47	Mr. Chairman. I have already announced that we will say in the course of the proceedings that we would like to vote on this one motion this afternoon. That has been passed on to the clerk.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-7.u48	It's a well-known fact. We'll see how the arrangement goes.
