ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-7.u1	Received is a letter from Mrs Berndsen-Jansen, written on 21 October 2015 in Burdaard. "Dear Mrs. Van Miltenburg, dear Anouchka, As of November 1st, I'm leaving the Chamber. When Alexander Pechtold asked me five years ago if I wanted to stand before the House of Representatives, I didn't think that was such a good idea at first. I had just moved to Friesland and I had a nice job as Chief Constable. But it's always good to think again before you make a final decision. So all the pros and cons, I thought it would be nice to make a career switch when I'm 60. The circle could be rounded with this. First councilman, then mayor, then chief of police and finally MP. And again this is a function for the public cause and also very honorable. But what a transition it was. Our group went from three to ten seats. So that meant new housing and I have the honour to arrange this for the group. This started the negotiations and to this day we are very happy with our rooms in the Justice Building. And then there's the office work. Actually, you're kind of a little self-employed person. You are thrown into the deep end and are expected to know immediately what a procedural meeting is and how to negotiate there. Then an AO and a VAO, while we're not allowed to use abbreviations. The arrangement of work so that a debate can be held. The race to be the first to report an oral question on a topicality. In short, the life of a parliamentarians. My wallet was written all over me. Security and Justice: the domains in which I have worked for a long time. But I also enjoyed the presidency of the Committee on the Interior. The icing on the cake was allowed to preside occasionally in the plenary. In short, an interesting and dynamic existence. Mr President, while I have the attention, for the last time, I would like to say two things. No, colleagues, it's not about regulating pot growing. But it's about the rule of law. We should be proud of our democracy and the rule of law that we have. But I am concerned about the future of our rule of law. Because of the great Ministry of Security and Justice that has arisen, our rule of law is under pressure. Take good care of our rule of law, I would say. Secondly, I would like to draw attention to our people working in the front line. The consequences of occupational diseases, such as PTSD, are now regulated by law for the police. Firefighters and paramedics still have to do that. This is absolutely necessary for those who face serious situations every day, but also violently directed against themselves. I've drawn attention to this in my maiden speech, and I'm doing this at my farewell. Mr President, it is not possible to phase out chamber work. It's all or nothing. This fact, plus the travel distance, made me make my decision. I wish all the representatives of the people, at whatever level, much strength to keep their backs straight and stand up for their ideals at this turbulent time and under threats. Finally, I would like to thank all members of the House for their great commitment. Nothing is too much and one is always helpful and friendly. Hospitality in this house has no boundaries. And of course I thank my colleagues for their collegiality. Certainly within the Committee on Security and Justice there is a good atmosphere and, despite the sometimes great political differences, we were pleasantly treated. That is also possible in politics. Last but not least, I would like to thank my fellow Members from D66. A beautiful club with excellent staff. As a Member of Parliament, you cannot function properly without them. Mr President, it has been five beautiful years. Good luck to you all. Magda Berndsen-Jansen'
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-7.u2	This is always a difficult time. This resignation was notified to the President of the Central Voting Office and to the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations. I propose that the letter of notification be adopted. Dear Mrs Berndsen-Jansen, dear Magda, When you became a Member of Parliament in June 2010, you had just moved to Friesland. You weren't born and raised there, but given your character, you could have. You're sober and firm: what you see is what you get! That's what your career has always needed. You were chief of police in Gooi and Vechtstreek for five days when Pim Fortuyn was murdered. And as mayor, you were at the helm during "the Battle of Beverwijk," a not very friendly encounter between football hooligans, where a dead man was also lamented. Your determined manner of doing brought you into the Chamber, as did firm opinions on the most important issues in your portfolio: the Public Prosecutor's Office, the police and the judiciary. In the Committee on Security and Justice, you held many debates on the main lines of a new national police organisation. In about as many debates, you and the minister concerned disagreed on the calculation of police strength. Also about the priorities the police were given and about soft drugs policy you crossed swords with the minister countless times. This year, together with colleague Bergkamp, you submitted an initiative proposal to amend the Opium Act. Although during the debates you sometimes played fiercely, sometimes visibly irritated in your chair, you never played on the man. It's about your content and that's also evident from your suicide note, in which you take the space to deal with two important political issues for you one more time. But you, too, can't escape the fact that politics has hard sides. The appointment of the National Ombudsman caused a great deal of controversy. It was a hectic, unpleasant period, which affected everyone involved, so certainly also the chairman of the application committee, but with you that did not lead to a retreating movement but rather to greater commitment. You were very motivated to make the new appointment procedure a success, and you succeeded. The procedures were tightened up and later you put in the knowledge and experience you had acquired as chairman of the application committee as chairman of the working group on appointments and nominations that should harmonise appointment procedures. It draws your perseverance and your sense of responsibility. It's too bad you didn't get to finish this job, but I'm sure your input will sound like it. In total, you participated in 173 AOs, 33 round tables, 99 plenary debates, 15 legislative referrals and 124 procedural meetings, some of which in the capacity of chairman of the Permanent Chamber Committee on the Interior. In addition, you were a member of the Bureau for two years and also in the time after that you had a lot of plenary debates ahead of you. You did that full of surrender and with pleasure. "The cherry on the cake," you called it in your own letter. Personally, I know you always could if I needed you. You didn't have a problem with meetings going through deep into the night. The stereotypic image that people take it a little more slowly after 60, you have personally and disabling it with verve. Dear Magda, as you yourself state in your letter, you cannot terminate the Chamberwork. You leave at the moment when you have to leave the defence of the initiative legislative proposals on changing the system of partner alimony and property rights to others. But your garden, home in Friesland, is calling. You're gonna take oxygen, you're gonna call it, when you're with your husband, shoveling and pruning. We give you that Frisian outdoor air, the peace and space, although I am convinced that you will find a lot of fun things in your path and will pick up once that weed has been weeded. Take care!
