ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-4.u1	Dear family of Willem Aantjes, dear fellow members, dear attendees, Today we are discussing the death of Willem Aantjes, former leader of the Anti-Revolutionary Party (ARP) and of the CDA. He was important to Dutch politics because of the role he played in the creation of the CDA. He died on 22 October at the age of 92. He was no longer active in politics for years, but politics remained active in him. He was a man with a firm opinion, who he didn't put under any chairs or benches. On 16 July an opinion story of his hand appeared in Trouw, about the renovation of the Binnenhof. It shows that politics, our parliamentary democracy, continued to captivate him until the last minute and that he continued to follow it very closely. That involvement was in his genes. His father was already a city council member, alderman, a member of the Provincial States and mayor. He was the one who took his son to a meeting of the ARP at a young age. Aantjes said about this in an interview: "I remember the election meeting with Colijn in 1937. I was 14 years old and very impressed. That's how it's grown." Willem Aantjes went into politics to stand up for people who don't make it on their own. That was his motivation and purpose, his beginning and end. His faith was his motive and the Bible his guidance. Up to the deepest fibers he felt connected to it. In one of the first portraits made of him in 1960, he said the following. "People should not feel a connection with you because you represent their material interests well; the voter's trust must rest on the fundamental spiritual agreement." This view has led to discussion throughout his political career, especially during the period when the confessional parties ARP, CHU and KVP started working together in the CDA. The basic discussion reached its peak in 1975, at the CDA's first party congress. Aantjes then openly took the stand in his famous "Speak of Mount," in which he argued for a new Christian policy in which the gospel would be recognizable and leading. Congress didn't share its opinion at the end of the day. That was all a long way after Willem Aantjes started as a Member of Parliament. In 1959, he gave his maiden speech on the IJsselmeer fishermen, who, according to him, had to be more directly involved in decision-making. He was very nervous then, he said later in an interview, even though the room wasn't even half filled. For him that was the reason to be present as often as possible later at the maiden speeches of other MPs. His portfolio was initially a legacy of his predecessor: agriculture and fisheries, housing, construction and PTT matters. Later this expanded with traffic and water state, housing and spatial planning and with foreign affairs. However, he considered the group presidency to be the most beautiful political function. He held this position for the ARP from 1971 to 1977 and for the CDA, at that time the largest government party, from 1977 to 1978. During the longest formation of our parliamentary history, he consistently expressed his own opinion. As one of the loyalists, he did not endorse the government agreement of the Van Agt cabinet, but he did become chairman of the political group. In 1978 he disappeared from political life from one day to the next. He himself became the subject of political and public debate. That must have been a tough, far-reaching period for him and his family. In the light of this, he took up the thread of his working life, first as Chairman of the Camping Council and later as a member and vice-president of the Housing Council. Willem Aantjes breathed politics from the moment he heard Colijn speak until his death three weeks ago. He was an active Twitter player, with a not small number of 7,000 followers. He tweeted about the toy construction, about splits and also about the President of the House of Representatives. People have remained interested in his firm opinion and that must have given him great satisfaction. Our thoughts go out to his family members, to his party mates here and outside this Chamber and to all the other people he loved and for whom he was dear. I now give the floor to the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-4.u2	Madam President. It is unmistakable: Willem Aantjes was a man of principles throughout his life. But that is almost impossible, because he grew up in the pre-war reformed church of the Alblasserwaard and was politically formed in the Anti-Revolutionary Party of Colijn and Schouten. In that world of men's brothers his roots lie and he has always felt connected to them, although he chose his own way in matters of faith and in politics. He's never been a group animal and a blind follower. His character was too strong, his personal sense of responsibility was too great and his nature too thoughtful. Willem Aantjes was his own man in everything. His political life is linked to a very exciting period from our parliamentary history. It was the time of polarization, the consciously sought-after gap between the left and the right, which sometimes seemed to run right through his own ARP. It was the time of the Den Uyl cabinet and of the formation of the CDA of which he became the first group chairman. And it was the time when it was personal politics and political personal. Willem Aantjes stood for fundamental politics and a deep-rooted commitment to the world. That was religiously motivated and very deep. As he himself said in the rightly renowned speech that the chairman just quoted from 1975: there is no stronger frame of reference than the gospel. That evangelical passion drove Willem Aantjes as a man and as a politician. He chose fully to protect the vulnerable and solidarity with the weaker. And he always did so in his own way: eloquent, Bible-proof and with persuasive power. A lot has been said and written about his sudden and inevitable farewell to the political company in 1978. It was the moment when the lack of openness about his personal past and the choice he made during World War II caught up with him. He himself said in retrospectively that he regretted this great silence. "I have also fallen victim to my own mistakes," he said in 2013. At the same time, it is significant that a later director of the Netherlands Institute for War Documentation once mentioned the issue of Aantjes as the largest business accident in the history of his institute. And others have also pointed out that Willem Aantjes was wronged in his sudden departure as party chairman of the CDA. That side of his story didn't get much wider attention until much later. That must not have been easy for him. But it draws Aantje's strong and independent mind that he was able to reconcile with what happened and that he remained very old with his own party and the public cause. Until the end, he had views and proclaimed them. Madam President. With Willem Aantjes Dutch politics loses a passionate and characterful person. On behalf of the cabinet, I wish his wife and children and other relatives all the strength and strength in the processing of this great loss. I wish them a chance to find comfort in the words of Willem Aantjes himself, who said the following a few years ago. "I have a desire to die in peace with God and all men; and as for men, I am a long way." Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-4.u3	Before I suspend the meeting, I can tell you that Willem Aantjes' family will be at the Members' Restaurant and that there is an opportunity to offer their condolences there.
