ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-6.u1	I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Health, Welfare and Sport, as well as all those present in the Chamber. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mrs Keijzer of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-6.u2	Mr. Chairman. It is often the domestic help that enables elderly people to stay in their own homes. But it is precisely there that major changes and cuts have been made. It was then thought that this could be repaired with a household aid allowance and some extra money. But it doesn't work. It's not working, it's not working, it's not working. Everyone is now convinced of this, with the exception of the coalition. Because of the importance for our elderly people, I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the conditions laid down in the HHT are counterproductive for the provision of household care and the HHT does not lead to more jobs;]] [[considers that the funds available for the HHT can be used more efficiently and efficiently;]] [[calls on the government to extend the rules so that municipalities can also use the funds available for the HHT for domestic care as a tailor-made provision,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Keijzer, Mr Ellemeet and Mr Gerbrands. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29282-213]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-6.u3	The first recital referred to "auxiliary household allowance'. That is the money that municipalities receive, namely 190 million, which they can only use as a general provision. And that doesn't work. In the meantime, it is also clear that, by abolishing the allowance for chronically ill and disabled people and stacking their own contributions because of the general provision, the financial consequences for people are enormous. The CDA has proposed several times in this Chamber that the financial impact of all reforms and cuts be taken into account. That has not yet been achieved; there is no majority for it. However, the holder wins and therefore I submit the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the 2015 Wmo allows for a build-up of own contributions by levying own contributions for both general and customised provisions;]] [[considers that a build-up of own contributions is undesirable and could lead to a reduction in the disposable income of chronically ill, people with disabilities and the elderly;]] [[invites the government to conduct an independent investigation into the accumulation of own contributions for the above mentioned groups and to inform the House of Representatives about this for the 2016 budget treatment VWS,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Keijzer.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29282-214]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-6.u4	Mr President,......................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-6.u5	The motion is not sufficiently supported. Mrs Leijten, you have a question about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-6.u6	It is perhaps also partly addressed to you, Mr President, but certainly to Mrs Keijzer. This is a VAO on labour market policy in the healthcare sector. It has been a lot about home care; I have also prepared a motion for a resolution on this. However, I find it a little strange that we should now table a motion on the conduct of an investigation into the financial effects of our own contributions. I don't know if the rules allow it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-6.u7	I think it's okay if we ask the petitioner first why she thinks...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-6.u8	This hasn't been treated. We have not been able to discuss this and the Secretary of State has not discussed it. It does not therefore follow from the debate. Mrs Keijzer, why are you filing this motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-6.u9	In my view, this was precisely the subject of the debate, because the household aid allowance should only be used by municipalities for domestic aid provided through the general provision. One of the conditions of that household aid allowance.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... This is a different matter from the own contribution that currently applies to domestic aid, for a minimum of €12 per four weeks. So people go from €12 per four weeks of their own contribution to €120.00 own contribution. That's why it doesn't work. The CDA has asked several times to pass this on. That is why I think it is certainly part of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-6.u10	However useful I find such a calculation to be, I think you should confine yourself to what has been discussed in the debate. We have certainly talked about the own contribution to the household aid allowance. The CDA and the SP also call for that to be deleted, so that at least that money will be released and we can save jobs. I'm coming up with a motion on that. But to ask for an overall investigation into the accumulation of own contributions, I find it out of order. I shall be voting in favour of the motion, but I would like to point out, before the debates, that I think it is completely out of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-6.u11	I disagree, Mr President. That is also clear from what I have just said.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-6.u12	It is always good if any questions can be asked. I would like to ask again whether there is sufficient support for the tabling of this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-6.u13	This is almost a matter of conscience. We have discussed this in connection with an interruption by the CDA Group to the PvdA Group. However, it was not included in the documents and it was not on the agenda either.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-6.u14	It is precisely for this reason that we are being asked whether there is sufficient support for the tabling of this motion. It is up to the Chamber whether or not it authorises the applicant to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-6.u15	On behalf of the PvdA Group, I do not wish to support the submission for this reason.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-6.u16	For the third time, I would ask: is the submission of this motion sufficiently supported?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-6.u17	Then I'll ask for a suspension, so I can ask a few colleagues to join us. I think this is really weird. I ask my colleague Bruins Slot to sign with me. This is unbelievable. We have talked in several instances about the household aid allowance. I have indicated in several instances that the own contribution is one of the reasons why it does not work. If that's how it's gonna be...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-6.u18	The reason why the VVD doesn't support this is the following. I agree with Mrs Leijten and Mrs Wolbert. It is not a question of increasing the own contribution; it is a question of making sure that the care covered by the household aid allowance and paid for by it is actually paid in full on a private basis. From the municipalities there is a kind of provision to cover half of the costs that people incur. It is therefore not the case that there is an increase in the own contribution. In fact, all care is privately financed and there is a concession from the municipalities. That is a very different discussion from the one we have had. In this sense, it is formally correct what Mrs Leijten and Mrs Wolbert say, namely that it is out of the nature of the discussion that we have had. I do not want to be complicated and do not deny you the possibility of tabling a motion, Mrs Keijzer, but what is said is true. It's a completely different discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-6.u19	In view of your last remark, for the fourth time, I would like to ask whether there is sufficient support for the tabling of this motion. That's the case. The motion is therefore part of the debate. She gets number 214 (29282).
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-6.u20	Mr. Chairman. We debate a lot about the cuts in health care. According to the Secretary of State, saying, as the SP does, that 40% savings in home care will result in 100,000 redundancies. That is supposed to be the creation of images that are not in line with reality, although they do come from the estimates. The Secretary of State will say, "That's not decent." However, he himself says in a press release, together with Asscher: we are going to save 19,000 jobs with the household aid allowance. It's not gonna happen. As Mrs Keijzer said, the money is on the shelf, but it does not come 'loose', as it is called, for jobs. It's an uncomfortable picture. There's money, but it's not spent on employees. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that both employers and trade unions indicate that the promised job gains are not achieved through the household aid allowance;]] [[noting that the household aid allowance should be a means of saving employment but that it is not expected to work until April by the government;]] [[noting that redundancies are now being made;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that as long as the household allowance does not work, all redundancies in home care are prevented;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29282-215]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-6.u21	I note that we will support the motions that have been tabled earlier to use the household aid allowance in a different way, without that own contribution which does indeed act as a barrier. However, I think this is a matter of principle. If you say you're going to save 19,000 jobs while jobs are disappearing, you have to deliver butter to the fish and make sure no jobs are lost.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-6.u22	Mr. Chairman. We have generally discussed the labour market in healthcare with three directors. I have a motion on one point. That is actually only a very small point in the very big picture. I would like to say that I realise that this is a small point, but it is about big things. We have talked extensively about the importance of public health care, its preservation and its further expansion into major areas of work. One of the important elements in maintaining public health care is, as with all other areas of care, that people need to work there who are well trained and who know about the hat and the edge. The estimate of the training of doctors shows that the public domain is always overestimated. That's why money stays behind. The PvdA considers it important that this budget is spent on good training for people in public health care. That's why I'm filing the next motion with D66. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is of great importance to public health that the professionalism of the health services and home and youth health institutions is maintained;]] [[Whereas the policy letter Reliable public health shows that this professionalism is broader than the expertise of doctors;]] [[Whereas 2 to 3 million in resources is now underutilized by estimates of the training places for doctors higher than the current experienced bottlenecks, as shown by the NIVEL report;]] [[Calls on the Government to examine how the resources remaining underutilised in 2015 and 2016 that is the duration of the current public health training grant scheme can be used to increase the expertise of different public health disciplines, including in relation to developments in the social domain,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wolbert and Mr Pia Dijkstra. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29282-216]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-6.u23	Mr. Chairman. Losing your job is painful for the people who do. The job plans and the household assistance allowance, introduced by this Cabinet as of January 2015, are temporary measures to help people move from job to job and to train them. Therefore, the VVD supports these measures. The household assistance allowance is intended for people who are no longer eligible for home care under the Wmo 2015, the new law. They'll get half their help paid. If it is now proposed, as the opposition parties do, to add the money for that grant in its entirety to the budget for the WMO, false expectations will be raised. It then gives the impression that home care for people who are no longer entitled to it will continue to be paid by the municipality. The VVD doesn't participate in that. It is untenable for an ageing population to collectively pay the cost of home care. Of course, a lot of people want to keep their help. So there is work, but there are fewer jobs. What's that all about? The real problem is that an elderly or sick person with a modal income cannot pay €20 to €25 per hour for home care every week. For this, labour will have to be cheaper and employers' costs will have to be reduced. That is why the VVD considers it so important that there is a tax review with relief.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-6.u24	The VVD may say that the opposition raises false expectations, but if you remove 40% of the household care, you may call the situation "untenable," but you simply cut back on that care. That's the VVD policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-6.u25	The VVD says that under an ageing population we cannot have all care for people at home paid by the collective. People who can do it have to do a bit of their own good. That's what's happening now. You create false expectations when you give the impression that the municipalities will continue to do so in the future. We're not in on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-6.u26	I look to Mrs Dijkstra to be sure, but it appears to me that she does not speak. Mrs Leijten has a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-6.u27	In my motion to part No. 215 is in the operative part "the care," but by that I mean "the household care." I hereby amend my motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-6.u28	The Leiten motion (No ) has been amended to read as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that both employers and trade unions indicate that the promised job gains are not achieved through the household aid allowance;]] [[noting that the household aid allowance should be a means of saving employment but that it is not expected to work until April by the government;]] [[noting that redundancies are now being made;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that as long as the household allowance does not work, all redundancies in household care are prevented;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported. She gets no, was no. 215 ().
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-6.u29	Mr. Chairman. We have, of course, discussed in great detail in the debate the issue of domestic aid, the household aid allowance and its effectiveness. I argued in the debate that I am in any case prepared to consider whether anything should be changed at the time when the municipalities ask for it or that it appears that it should be regulated in a different way. I also note that it is now far too early to do so, because municipalities are busy implementing this scheme. The scheme has already been established late, so a lot of municipalities said to us: it is a tax to get that. But they have all subscribed positively to this arrangement because they saw the usefulness of it, namely maintaining jobs and avoiding alpha constructions. The system has now entered into force. It's now early March. We have to wait and see if it fits in well with the discussions that the municipalities are now conducting with suppliers to see how this scheme can be implemented. I said in the debate that, if it were necessary later on in the journey, we would be prepared to change the arrangements to ensure that they work even better. I really want to give municipalities the opportunity to work with the providers to see how this system can be made a success. For that reason, I am not in favour of changing the use. There are two main secondary objectives of that scheme. First of all, the question is how we can prevent the creation of alpha-help structures again, in which the household aid allowance allows, together with the municipal contribution and the payment by the people themselves, to create a regular job. Secondly, an effect of this grant can be that we look much wider than just domestic aid. This could lead to a much wider view of how to further improve home services. The motion-Keijzer in part No. 213 calls on the government to enlarge and to make the funds available to the tailor-made services. I don't think that's a good thing. If, in consultation with municipalities and providers, it would appear that the parameters need to be adjusted, we are very willing to look at them, but not now. First of all, we must enable the municipalities to see how this scheme can be successful. I think that's the right order. For that reason, I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-6.u30	With all the political demands that the Secretary of State makes to domestic care, we are slowly turning our backs on them. An opinion has just been issued which shows that regular jobs are slowly becoming impossible in domestic care because of the rates that are being set. When is the moment when the Secretary of State wishes to admit that the household aid allowance does not work in this way? Then we all have a date when we can ask the Secretary of State to finally move on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-6.u31	I can't cut that with scissors. I will be consulting the municipalities shortly to see what the state of play is regarding the household aid allowance. We are discussing whether we can very easily eliminate bureaucracy by, for example, agreeing on a common platform. Those conversations are going on. I hope to have that insight around the end of March, beginning of April. That seems to me to be spacious enough to decide whether it is going to work or whether it needs to be adapted. Mr. Chairman. Then the motion to part No. 214. This motion calls on the government to conduct an independent investigation into the accumulation of its own contributions. I am inclined to agree with those Members of the Chamber who said that we did not actually discuss this in the debate and that you should not compare it with your own contribution according to the Wmo. After all, it is another financing of domestic aid. People pay it themselves with a contribution from the municipality. Therefore, you cannot compare the amount of €12 with the amount of €120. One is an own contribution for the Wmo and the other the self-regulation of household help with a contribution from the municipality. They are also other target groups. That is why I do not think that this arrangement can be made this way. In addition, we have regularly discussed monitoring the spending and purchasing power effects of decentralisation. There have been agreements made about stacking monitors. For the purposes of budgetary treatment, the Ministry of Social Affairs makes every time a monitor which also takes into account local burdens. For that reason, I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-6.u32	A clarifying question: does the documents of the VWS ministry not state that the money should be used for domestic aid as a general provision? Is it therefore precisely the own contribution covered by the general provision referred to in the WMO?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-6.u33	It is a scheme covered by the Wmo, but that does not mean that the Wmo's own contribution for people who cannot afford it can be compared with the situation in which people can pay it in part and also receive a contribution from the municipality. That's another arrangement. In the motion in part No. 215 the Government is asked to ensure that as long as the household aid allowance does not work, all redundancies in the care are prevented. As much as I'd like to, I can't avoid being fired from care. The aim of our efforts is precisely to see how this household aid allowance can work as well as possible. I have already said that I am prepared to make adjustments if the route shows that they are necessary to make it even more effective. But, again, as much as I'd like to, I can't avoid being fired from care. I will do everything in my power to avoid dismissals as much as possible through the sectoral plans and through retraining, retraining and retraining. In addition, I would like to give the household aid allowance a chance. That's why I'm dissuading the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-6.u34	Will the Secretary of State then withdraw the press release on saving 19,000 jobs?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-6.u35	This is about the reports on employment in health care. In the context of the labour market impact assessment, the question has simply been asked: how much savings are being made and what is the associated employment effect? As part of the household aid allowance, the question has been asked: how much money do we make available and how many jobs can we create/save. Just a calculation. There's no wishfull thinking behind that; it's purely a calculation. If this could work, the outcome is the equivalent of the amount of money you put in it and the amount of money you cut. I'm trying to paint a picture as fair as I can. Mrs Leijten is right to say that this depends on the effectiveness of the scheme and on whether it will work and whether municipalities and providers are able to do so properly. That is why I am so motivated to make the household aid allowance a success.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-6.u36	While people in household care lose their jobs, they read in a press release from the Ministry that 19,000 jobs will be saved. This is really what we are saying: we come up with a regulation and it saves jobs. We know that this is not the case. The Secretary of State is now talking about "maybe." That's a lot more nuanced than in the press. At least the Ministry would have to withdraw that press release. The message is: we hope it saves jobs, we cannot guarantee anything and we are going to try. 19,000 is really a blow in the air!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-6.u37	This applies equally to the labour market impact assessment and the question of whether 100 000 jobs would be lost as a result of the cuts. I did not say that Mrs Leijten should not say that either. I pointed out to her that the value of the cuts and their impact on employment do not result in 100 000 but in other numbers. We have released the same calculation on both numbers. In the motion in part No. 216 the government is asked to examine how the funds that may not be spent or remain underutilised can be spent on other matters for the same purpose. In my opinion, it is still too early for that. It is not yet entirely clear to what extent under-utilisation is involved. In addition, under-utilisation on a budget line cannot simply be earmarked for another matter by motion. I agree with Mr Wolbert and Mr Dijkstra that it is very important that these training courses take place. The funds are intended for these training courses, which are very much needed to ensure, for example, that the connection between the medical domain and the social domain is established. I would therefore like to consult with the sector to ensure that under-spending is avoided as much as possible and that the funds for which they are intended are used. If that is not possible, we could look at how the funds could be used differently through the orderly approach, the spring note. I would therefore like to ask both authors to hold this motion, at least in order to avoid the need to discourage it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-6.u38	I understand what the Secretary of State is saying, but I'd like to give it a try anyway. This money is intended for professionalisation. It's going to the doctors now. This actually ignores the fact that there are many more professions in public health and are important for the enforcement and handling of this, such as researchers and other people who contribute to it. The Secretary of State is talking about using it for something else, but in my view that is not the case at all. You just make the target audience a little wider than the doctors; that's all it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-6.u39	Yes, but with the following remark: the purpose of the funds is, of course, in this subsidy scheme, to which they must be used. If we now say that they do not need to be spent for this purpose, then we must at least extend it. In this case, it seems to me that it is right to first examine whether under-utilisation is taking place and to make every effort to ensure that these training courses are taking place. If this proves to be not enough, we can look at the royal way, in the spring note, to see if there is an alternative use. That seems to me to be the best way forward. I therefore repeat my request that at least this motion be retained.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-6.u40	I'll consider that. I'll take a look at Mrs. Dijkstra. I think that holding the motion would be the most appropriate course of action. However, I would like to inform the Secretary of State that it is not unusual for the Chamber to be able to re-vote within one financial year, provided that unused budgets are available in time, in order to prevent the money from being returned to Minister Dijsselbloem. There is nothing wrong with that in itself, but if the Court takes the opportunity to find a different destination within a financial year in line with what it was originally intended for, I think it is doing its job well. I therefore propose to do it that way. I'll tell the Secretary of State he has to be on time. If we take too long, we will not be able to re-vote this money within the same budgetary system. I would therefore ask him to make haste with this. I would also like to know when the Secretary of State can clarify this, so that we know when we can retable our motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-6.u41	I propose that I do so in good time, on the occasion of the decision on the spring note.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-6.u42	Agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-6.u43	At the request of Mrs Wolbert, I propose her motion (29282, No. 216). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-6.u44	We shall vote next Tuesday on the motions tabled.
