ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-40.u1	I would ask everyone in the Chamber and in the public gallery to stand up, if possible. Dear Saskia, friends and colleagues of Karel Koster, dear members, Whoever works in the Lower House is by definition involved in the world. This applies not only to representatives of the people, but also to our support. Everyone who works here has an open view of what is happening in society. The same applies to Karel Koster. Charles was intrigued by everything that has to do with defense. The foundation for this was laid during his military service, in which he first came into contact with armies and weapon systems. To his disappointment he was allowed home a week after he came up, because his lot knew too many boys. However, Charles continued to read about geopolitics, military missions and military strategies. He thus developed an enormous knowledge in the fields of international politics, nuclear weapons and nuclear logic. The latter, interpreting nuclear logic, he himself found his greatest merit. He liked to understand how military or strategists think about nuclear weapons, and then turn that way of thinking into arguments against the use of these weapons. With all his knowledge, Karel was an important advisor to the SP. He joined the party since 1994. In 2007 he joined the Dutch Parliamentary Group through the Scientific Bureau of the SP. In the Chamber he continued to specialize in the theory and practice of defence. Together with Jasper van Dijk, he enjoyed working visits to the armed forces, from the exercises of the Army to a visit to the National Cyber Security Centre and a helicopter flight to the Special Forces. With Harry van Bommel, Charles visited the Royal Navy and even sailed on a submarine. Everyone he spoke to during these visits was impressed by his expertise. It is said that he knew more about the equipment than the military themselves. Han ten Broeke, chairman of the Permanent Chambers Committee on Defence, calls Karel "one of the best informed defence specialists in this Chamber building, with a great heart, including for defence." Charles died of cancer on 18 June this year. Despite his illness, he was active in the SP fraction until the last moment. His gaze remained outwards. He remained committed as an activist, antimilitarist, defence expert and genuine warrior for peace and justice. Our thoughts go out to the family of Charles, but also to his closest colleagues here in the Chamber. We wish them much strength at this difficult time. Charles will be missed. I would ask those present to observe a moment of silence. After that, there is an opportunity to offer my condolences to the next of kin.
