ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u1	Mr. Chairman. It is an honour for me to be able to respond to the thorough presentation of the various spokesmen on behalf of their political groups. As some have already pointed out, we are in special circumstances on the subject of energy, because we saw the climate agreement in Paris two weeks ago. 195 countries from all over the world have come together because they have experienced something like a major problem on the basis of all the information that has become available on this subject over the years. They have said together that they wanted to tackle the climate problem and jointly contribute to limiting the temperature increase on earth to 2°C. They even want to strive for a limit to 1.5°C. The cabinet agrees. We think this should be done. We also think it should be done internationally. That is why we are pushing hard for European policy and we think it is very important that an agreement has been reached on this issue at global level. All countries, including the European Union and the Member States of the European Union, will have to contribute to achieving the objective of a maximum 2°C temperature increase and, if possible, a maximum of 1.5°C temperature increase. I believe that we will have to do a great deal to achieve the objectives set and at the same time ensure that energy supply remains affordable, reliable and safe. It's not all gonna happen on its own. In order to control the climate, you need to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, especially CO. We must therefore also ensure that we make the transition to renewable energy. Everything is now focused on fossil energy, but we really need to focus everything on renewable energy. This is a major transition and in this great transition we must ensure that energy supply remains affordable, reliable and safe, as I said. This is something in which the government must be clear and consistent. We must create an environment in which companies have the confidence that they can invest in it. Large amounts need to be invested and companies like to have clarity and consistency on the part of the public authorities. If you look at what has happened over the past few years in terms of energy, you can see that the changes are still very large. We have experienced five years of successive financial and economic crises. That also affected the energy world. Where we first thought that there would be a shortage of fossil energy in the foreseeable future, it has now become clear that for hundreds of years there is still fossil energy on earth to be found and used. One example of this is that the United States of America, one of the largest consumers of fossil energy and a major importer, has now become exporter of fossil energy as a result of the large-scale extraction of shale oil and shale gas in the United States. I started by saying that, in fact, all the countries in the world are convinced that there is a climate problem that needs to be addressed internationally, globally. We must ensure that, as a result of the uncontrolled and continuous use of fossil energy, we do not turn the climate problem into something in which the next generations will have to cope with the shortcomings that we are currently experiencing. We have also seen that international agreements are now being made on a large scale to reduce greenhouse gas and CO emissions in Europe. In Europe, we are already so far away that we are drawing up directives to which the countries have to comply. Those Directives are also implemented in national legislation. At the COP21 conference in Paris, the countries with each other recognised the problem internationally. They have said that they must all contribute to solutions. They will examine the extent to which this is the case every five years. They can therefore appeal to each other as to whether or not progress has been made.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u2	I've been trying to sit down for a while, but that's not easy. We are talking about keeping our energy supply affordable. I have just mentioned the figures for only wind energy in a small debate with Mrs Huijbrechts. That's a billion or 40 for wind on land and wind at sea. This will cover 2% of our energy needs. After 15 years, it's done. Maybe a few more years, but then those windmills are gone and they can go to the junkyard. There's no way to call that sustainable, is there? My second question concerns the climate agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u3	Is it a problem if I ask for it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u4	As far as I'm concerned, that's not a problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u5	I don't know where that 2% came from. I know that by 2023 wind alone will account for 3.2% of the total energy consumption in the Netherlands. In 2014, 10% of electricity consumed in the Netherlands was produced sustainably. I expect this to be 40% by 2020 and 50% by 2030. So we are taking great steps in the transition from fossil to renewable energy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u6	You are now trying to copy that marketing trick of the wind merchants by saying that these windmills produce a lot of electricity, but electricity is only a small part of our energy needs. I may want to give you that 3% instead of 2% of our energy needs, but that remains the fact that we are, of course, at a rate of 40 billion and perhaps 3.2% of our energy needs. Again, after 15 years, those mills are gone. My second question concerns the climate agreement. That's a non-committal occupation. Countries have promised to comply with the commitments made, but these commitments are mainly evidence of a continuation of the road that has been set in motion, namely to provide all those 2.5 billion people who come with energy to eat, drink and heat homes. I mentioned numbers in my own contribution. Those emissions are gonna explode! We can try tens of billions here to reduce our small share of 0.5% of global emissions to 0.4%, but emissions from countries like Russia, China and India are exploding!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u7	What is your question, Mr Dercksen?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u8	Why does the Minister pretend that the rest of the world is going to do a lot of things when they said right after that summit that they are just going to continue on the path of more ejection?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u9	Mr. Dercksen said I'm doing a marketing trick. Where did he come up with that? Of course I'm not doing marketing tricks! I'm responding to the contributions of the spokesmen of the Supreme Court. I said that Mr Dercksen's 2% was wrong, because wind at sea alone accounted for 3.2% of the total energy in the Netherlands in the year 2023. Electricity consumption, an important component of energy production and consumption, currently covers 10% of renewable electricity. This will be 40% by 2020 and 50% by 2030. With the best will in the world, I cannot derive any reasoning from what Mr Dercksen says about the climate agreement. I don't know where he's going with this and what he's saying. I do know that 195 countries around the world have come together, after scientists from all over the world have been working for many years in a very transparent way to investigate, analyse, draw conclusions and submit them to governments. Then 195 countries, all of the world, come together and say that we have a big problem here, that we have to work together to solve it, that we all have to make our contribution and that we are going to do so, with a specific objective. We even have a sharper objective. We're gonna meet every five years to see how we've progressed. That is the reality. Mr Dercksen can deny that, just as there are people who deny that smoking is unhealthy and that the earth is round. Well, you can deny everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u10	A short response, Mr Dercksen. Then we'll leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u11	I would just like to refer to my contribution to the quality of the IPCC, where people leave because they find that the work has nothing to do with science but more politics. No one should be guided by that. We must be guided by the facts. They are, for example, that it has not or hardly been getting warmer in the world for nineteen years. Those countries that went home after the climate agreement said that they were continuing on the road they started, with more emissions. They promised before the summit they'd do something. That is to be expected, but the commitment made leads to much and much less reduction in emissions. There's no other way. Our contribution to reducing emissions is therefore less than marginal. The energy agreement plus the climate summit may cost us twice what the energy agreement alone cost us. We're giving away our prosperity.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u12	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u13	I'm trying to get the Minister to reflect on that finding.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u14	If you want to solve the problem, you first have to acknowledge that the problem is there. Then you have to analyse it with each other, formulate goals and make agreements. That is exactly what has happened in Paris. We must be very happy that we have come this far. At least I'm very happy about that. Mr Dercksen says that the contribution of the Netherlands is minimal and that we give away our prosperity. Every country can say that, but we are the seventeenth economy of the world. We live together with 17 million wealthy, highly developed people in a small country. We are also contributing to the problem, as we have done in the past. That is why we are also jointly responsible for a solution. Perhaps we should be at the forefront of this because we have also been at the forefront of prosperity growth. I think it is a good thing that we are making a contribution. You can get rid of them like you can get rid of everything, but the big global problem is there and can't be left out. The need as the Netherlands to contribute to the solution of this global problem feels at least the cabinet and, I have noticed, also the vast majority of this Chamber. Mr. Chairman. I was telling you that the whole energy world has undergone major changes in recent years. I mentioned the various crises, including the financial and economic crisis. At first we thought of a shortage of fossil energy, but by now we know that there is still a lot of fossil energy available, for hundreds of years. However, I have also said that we now know that this fossil energy cannot continue to be consumed simply because it will go wrong. That is why international agreements have been made and we have initiated the transition to renewable energy. That's a very big transition. Everything was focused on fossil energy, everything was designed for it and everything was invested in it, but we have to move on to renewable energy. This means that the infrastructure we had is losing its value and that a whole new infrastructure needs to be built. That costs money, of course, in the Netherlands and everywhere in the world. If we do not spend that money, there will be unmanageable problems that can no longer be solved even with money. So let us do above all that which we now know is necessary. I have mentioned international, global problems, but you can also look at developments close to home. The closure of all German nuclear power plants has had a major impact on the way in which energy is used in our large neighbouring country. In our own country, the earthquakes caused by gas extraction in Groningen have also had major effects. So we have to face this and implement the legislation that we have to ensure that the things that are needed are done. We need to consider whether the current legislation is still sufficient and whether there is a need for adjustments. The cabinet has come to the conclusion that it is. We have set up a legislative agenda STROOM. It aims to achieve less regulatory pressure and more results with clearer and simpler legislation, to stimulate the transition to sustainable and renewable energy and to facilitate the competitive economy. We also want to maintain in this transition that the Netherlands is a very competitive economy, currently the number five of the whole world. We would like to hold on to that position and, if possible, improve it. We believe that this is also possible. This legislative agenda should contribute to this. The legislative agenda consists of a number of elements. We started with a policy paper, which was discussed in the House of Representatives. A draft law was then put forward. A bill has been put forward for the grid tariffs of energy-intensive industry. We also want to keep our energy-intensive industry and at least our industry in the Netherlands under these changing conditions. We have also made an experiment-AMvB. Part of the bill for a new Electricity and Gas Act is now in the First Chamber. We had an Electricity Act and a Gas Act. With the Independent Network Management Act, we have made changes to those two laws. Now we are converting these two laws into a new law, the new Electricity and Gas Act. We have had that bill put in place in a special way. Today we have always conducted internet consultations. If there's a bill, you're gonna consult anyone who's interested in it. We have now made it a very open and interactive process in which we have actively approached citizens, businesses and organisations, held round tables, set up discussion groups on the Internet and had bilateral talks. My staff at the Ministry of Economic Affairs have worked on this in a very exemplary way. They have ensured that, in the conviction of the cabinet, an excellent bill has now been adopted by the Lower House, which can now be dealt with in the Upper Chamber. It consists of two parts. Part one deals with the organisation and tasks of system management, tariff regulation and, in connection with that, wind at sea. For wind at sea, there is a need to change the management of the system. Part two deals with consumer protection, supply, production and ACM codes. That second part will come to the House of Representatives in the first half of 2017. The first part, which we are now discussing, has received a positive opinion from the Council of State. On 13 October, the House of Representatives also approved the bill. The government therefore believes that what is in this document should be done. The House of Representatives believes that this should be done. It has received a positive opinion from the Council of State and it is now here. The Labour Party Group has asked me about the order of policy papers coming in 2016. The cabinet is reluctant with policy papers. We are trying to limit it to what is necessary. In terms of energy, we think there are a number of things that need to be done. We will come to the House of Representatives with an energy report at the end of the year. In that energy report we go beyond 2023. The year 2023 is the year the Energy Agreement focuses on with objectives for 2020 and 2023. But after 2023, a lot has to be done to achieve a CO-neutral energy supply by 2050. That's what we're going to describe in the energy report. So that comes around the turn of the year. We will then have an energy dialogue between April and summer. We are going to look at how we can engage in dialogue with organisations, businesses and citizens in different ways, tell them how we have collected information, make it available and encourage them to give opinions and listen to other people's views. At the end of this dialogue, we are going to draw up a policy agenda for energy. That is what we will come up with in the autumn. So the order is: first the energy report, then the dialogue and then the policy agenda, I say to Mr Verheijen. We will send a letter to the Chamber at the beginning of 2016 about the results of the Paris conference and its consequences for the Netherlands. Mrs Huijbregts has also asked for this. In addition to what I have just said, I will send another change to the General Measure on STROOM to your Chamber before the summer. It will arrange an expansion of the experimental space. I will come back to that later. Mr Pijlman asked whether it was appropriate to intensify the agreements in the energy agreement as a result of what was agreed in Paris. That's right. I'm getting back together. Mr Pijlman asked another question. He didn't link it to Paris. He asked: is it right that you need to intensify the agreements in order to achieve the objectives of the energy agreement? He's right about that. That's what needs to be done. The Committee on Safeguards has discussed this for a long time, including with me. Last week we discussed the matter with the various ministers and with representatives of all parties to the energy agreement. Today, Mr Nijpels of the Committee on Safeguards sends a letter to the ESC. If I've received that letter from the ESC, I'll forward it to the House of Representatives. The Committee on Budgetary Control will state that, on the basis of the intensifications that are now being planned and the agreements that have been made, they provide that all the objectives of the energy agreement are within reach.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u15	In my first instance, I had indeed made the connection with Paris. The question was whether compliance with the Paris agreements would lead to a further intensification of the energy agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u16	Then my slip was not a real slip of the tongue and I am going to answer Mr Pijlman's question. The targets we set ourselves for 2020, 2023 are short-term targets. We know that we must move forward afterwards. The coalition agreement also states that a CO-neutral economy must be set up by 2050. Europe has been said: 80% to 95% reduction in CO emissions compared to 1990. In order to achieve these further objectives, further agreements on the energy agreement and an intensification of the agreements will be needed. I agree with Mr Pijlman that what we are doing now is a good step forward, but there will have to be several further steps. Mr Pijlman also said that the 2016 Tax Plan earmarked EUR 100 million for the promotion of energy-saving measures. He wondered whether these funds could also be used for local initiatives. Those funds are reserved for the promotion of energy-saving measures by households. The cabinet is going to consider how we can use this 100 million as effectively and effectively as possible, because on top of 1.5% of energy savings per year, that was already in the picture, and that is quite a bit more than 100 petajoules going to do. 100 petajoules is an awful lot. All sorts of things have to be done to get that 100 petajoule. One of these components is a scheme to stimulate energy-saving measures in households. Then you should think about heat pumps and the like. In the 2016 Spring Note, the Cabinet will discuss the elaboration of that arrangement. In doing so, we will indicate the intended effects and explain how we will communicate with the people of the country in order to persuade them to do what we want, namely to take energy-saving measures that are necessary in the light of what we have just discussed. Mr Dercksen's statement on 2% renewable energy has already been addressed in the wake of his interruption. He also said that the energy agreement would cost 73 billion and that tens of billions would be added. That's a mistake. The energy agreement will cost tens of billions less than 73 billion. The figures on which the Court of Auditors based itself are figures from the NEV 2014. We now know what the NEV 2015 looks like. In the meantime, the calculations have continued. So it is not 73 billion, as he says, plus tens of billions, but 73 billion minus tens of billions. In fact, there are always uncertainties about this, because you are assuming expectations for electricity prices. If these expectations are different, the results may be higher or lower. Besides...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u17	Mr. Dercksen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u18	If I may add one small sentence, Madam President. Moreover, that amount of an x-number of billions is spent over a long period between 2015 and 2037.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u19	Yeah, and then we're out of windmills and the money's gone. I didn't say tens of billions. I mentioned the amount of the General Court. When we come to new findings, I am very interested in them. But from the discussion of the National Energy Exploratory on the other side of the square I understand that there would be another 8 billion in SDE+ funding. That was my question. And is it true that it will mainly be invested in biomass?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u20	I can now start a discussion on biomass and SDE+, but Mr Dercksen first mentioned an amount. On that amount, I have indicated what the reality is. Mr Dercksen says: the windmills are up at some point and then the money is gone. That's not true. The windmills have turned for an x-number of years and if they are technically still good, they can keep turning. If they're not good anymore, they need to be replaced. All these years they have been spinning, we have not had to devoid of fossil energy and we have been able to use the wind, renewable energy, and that is what it is all about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u21	We do not know whether wind energy will lead to a reduction in emissions at all. I have a number of scientists on my side saying that this is not the case. So we're actually doing some kind of play here. We say that something is sustainable, while the people who calculate it and have studied for it and held all kinds of top positions in science say that it is not. I think it would be wise not to engage in that discussion. Here's what I want to know. Is the 8 billion recently discussed on the other side of the Atlantic whether it is in biomass or otherwise on top of the energy agreement, whatever the amount?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u22	Mr Dercksen constantly shields with scientists who know exactly what is going on. The IPCC process, the UN process on CO emissions, greenhouse gas emissions and climate control, has been completely transparent. Every scientist has been given the opportunity to participate. All the work these scientists do is all made transparent. It is then discussed with each other and judged. People are looking at where they can do better. Of course, you have to make decisions. At some point, the preparation is sufficient to be able to base decisions on it. These 195 countries will then come together in Paris and draw conclusions from it. Mr Dercksen may say 'I have a scientist here and I have a scientist there', but that is completely ignorant of reality. If, in this way, the international community organises a transparent process with all the scientists in the world who want to be involved, and when 195 countries come to a joint conclusion at the end of this process, you must also realise yourself, Mr Dercksen, that you are engaged in a rearguard fight that you are actually fighting against windmills on your own?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u23	Very briefly, Mr Dercksen, very briefly!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u24	I've heard that one before. My question remains: why do you not want to measure it? Why do we not want to measure how much more the standby plants emit to a) be stand-by and b) cope with fluctuations? Facts from Ireland indicate that they emit much more. I can't help it. It's just in the books. I have asked you to convince me, if you are so convinced of your truth. I'd go with you, but let's just measure it. Then you'll be rid of me and I won't be here every five minutes at the interrupting microphone. Then we know to what extent windmills actually contribute to reducing CO emissions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u25	Mr Dercksen suggests that we would not want to measure and know. That is what we want, of course, and that is why we are looking into everything. We measure everything, we put everything on paper to make it clear to you, Mr Dercksen. That is what we do in the Netherlands and throughout the world. Everyone knows you're gonna emit CO if you smoke oil, gas and coal. We now know that this has an effect on the climate. Instead, if you use geothermal heat and biomass that is growing mass that takes CO out of the air at the time of growth and then gives CO off at the time of combustion, then you have a final process. If you use wind and solar energy and fermentation, you use renewable, sustainable resources instead of fossil energy. It is very interesting to measure everything around it and want to know everything, but it is very strange to deny the logic of the grand line. That's what you're doing all the time. You say you want to be convinced. Now, then I hope to see you once convinced. I have already dealt with the amounts. Biomass, wind at sea and wind on land are all in the calculations we made for the energy agreement. I'm gonna be on system management. Today we must say'systems', because that fits within the European agreements that have been made, but let us talk about 'networks'. One time I use "nets," the other time I use "systems"...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u26	I asked the Minister if he wanted to go into the building of the law and the coherence. He has said something about what legislation is now ahead and what is to come, but I have not yet heard the question of why, for example, the issue of nets at sea is included in this law. Perhaps that will be in his speech. Well, then, of course, I'll wait and see. Otherwise, I'd like to hear about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u27	This law deals, among other things, with system management. An important part of this is what we are going to do with the windmills that we are going to set up off the coast. At Borssele, that's 12+ miles off the coast. The North and South Dutch coasts are still to be decided in the planning procedure. There it is at 10+ miles, where already windmills are 6 miles away from the coast. So our plans that still have to be decided are in 10+ miles. We're going to build a lot of windmills at sea. They must be connected to the TenneT high-voltage network. That's what you need to organize. You have to get it technically done, and that's system management. So that's part of the first part of the law. In the first law, we have adopted things that are contained in the Electricity and Gas Act and that can remain unchanged. We have also dealt with additional issues, including system management for wind at sea. When we came to sea with the Wet wind, we were not yet so far away that we had designed and developed system management completely. By now, it's time. Now it can well be incorporated into this law. We must realise that the objectives we have set for the year 2020 and 2023, are very challenging targets. A great deal has to be done in a short time. That's all you have to finance and organize. You have to take care of it all legally. We have put ourselves in a time trap. We must try to keep to this if we are convinced that the objectives are necessary and that we must at least achieve them and do our best to achieve them. The cabinet is convinced of that, so is the Lower House, and I hope that the Upper Chamber will also be convinced. I'm gonna be on system management. The networks constitute a natural monopoly. They are very important for energy supply. We have said 'we' about the nets, including my predecessors, because this has been discussed since 2002, in the Second Chamber and in the First Chamber, that we see them as the basis. We have said the following. We must ensure that all those who wish to do so are connected to the gas networks and electricity networks and that the networks are of high quality. The quality of the networks is guaranteed by the government. Governments keep the nets in their possession. Anyone who wants to use the networks to supply energy, gas or electricity, must then be given the opportunity to do so. Gas and electricity production, trade and supply is a commercial activity where risks are taken. One does it one way and the other on the other. One way can't be a good choice, which gets you into trouble. The companies that have done it the other way will be fine. You may also have chosen the right way, but you don't have your business in order. Then you have a problem as a company. Those are all things the companies themselves have to do. They can produce, act and deliver. They may use the nets. We have said that we will ensure that these networks are independent, that they are in public hands and that their quality is guaranteed, under all circumstances. That is the starting point that was chosen at the time. The legislative proposal is based on existing legal tasks for the system operator. We have made a number of changes to this. We're gonna work with an investment plan. TenneT will partially cable the high-voltage connections on land. I will come back to that later. There's gonna be a transmission system at sea, and we're gonna designate TenneT. TenneT's designation makes perfect sense, because TenneT also does the high-voltage network on land. Then it makes sense that you do the same at sea. It would be crazy if we asked another party for that. TenneT is also very professional and able to do that well. We can see that because the shares are in the hands of the government. So there's no tender to get TenneT to do that. When TenneT finally realizes that network at sea, tenders will of course be used. Then companies are allowed to subscribe to it and, on behalf of TenneT, can make their contribution to what needs to be done. That's how we organized it. In addition to existing legal tasks, this legislative proposal provides for additional tasks for system operators, i.e. grid operators, such as electricity storage. That storage is becoming increasingly important because you get electricity from wind and sun at times when you don't need it all. The moment you need it, there's no wind and no sun. If you have been able to store the electricity, then you can better use the renewable energy. Storage is therefore increasingly important. This legislative proposal further identifies wider experimental possibilities and makes it clear to system operators that it is their task to disclose information relevant to the market. This means that all parties wishing to use the networks must be able to obtain all information on the networks of interest to them. Mrs Huijbregts asked if there was a tension between the purpose of the bill, affordability of networks, and the experimental space that the network operators get. That is not the case. The purpose of the experiments is precisely to explore ways of improving affordability and reliability. So there's no tension. The experiments serve precisely that purpose. I will design the experimental space on the basis of proposals from the sector. They will come up with proposals themselves. So one chooses the experiments themselves. I'll make them possible. The AMvB that is needed to allow the experiments, I will also be in front of the First Chamber. System operators can only carry out the experiments in relation to their own role, their own networks. So they can't experiment with things that belong to someone else. I do not intend to allow infrastructure companies to engage in all kinds of commercial activities in the field of experimentation. An infrastructure company is a company whose network business is part of it. That network company must also be the majority of such an infrastructure company. That infrastructure company may also do things that are not directly covered by network management, but that are related to it. That's gotta be it. It must be clear that on the one hand you have the infrastructure companies and on the other hand you have production, supply and trade. We want to keep these things apart. Mr Dercksen asked whether I can guarantee that new experiments will not lead to new nuisances or higher costs. Experiments are only carried out on a voluntary basis. No one is forced to participate in an experiment. One can come up with proposals of one's own. We can cooperate on the basis of the AMvB. Experiments are always for a limited period. After that period we learn from such an experiment and we can see if that is something that can be introduced in general. I don't see any trouble with that. There can be extra costs. The initiators who want to carry out such an experiment have weighed those costs and have thought: we think that these additional costs are useful and that is why we want to do so. If that's what they want, I have no objection to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u28	Mr Dercksen, one interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u29	The burden is mainly on the residents living in that experiment room. The burden of windmills is now well known. In my neighborhood, in Spakenburg, there was a bio-fermentation plant that made sure people in the area couldn't sleep upstairs. The stench was unbearable. People had to run downstairs. That's caused a lot of trouble at the company's gate. My question was more about whether we have an eye for the people in the experiment room who are confronted with these experiments. How does the Minister guarantee that these people in that experiment room, such as in Spakenburg and those living around windmills, will not be affected very much?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u30	Sure. We have all properly laid down our environmental requirements and standards in the legislation. That legislation remains in force. Mr. Chairman. Mr Pijlman asked if I could promise that the First Chamber will be regularly informed about the experiments and their possible passage into laws and regulations once we have come to the conclusion that experiments have been successful and it makes sense to extend them widely. Certainly I am prepared to do so. I have already promised to keep the House of Representatives informed. I will send copies of those letters to the First Chamber now that Mr Pijlman has indicated that his group considers that appropriate. Mr Pijlman asked how I deal with Mr Jan Vos' motion from the House of Representatives, asking the government to give the infrastructure companies room to support the transition. I've just gone into that. I want to give them room in accordance with that motion, but I do not deviate from the principle that network companies should be the main part of the infrastructure business. Infrastructure companies may do more than just network management, but this must always be related to the network. Within the margins, I can see what extra space there is. However, I do not want them to go into the field of production, supply and trade. That is for the market. That's why we put the split in. The cross-participants are briefly mentioned. There are two types of network: regional networks and rural networks. The national gas network is owned and managed by GTS and the national electricity network of TenneT. If a European market is created, and especially if a North-West European market is created, it may be desirable that there should be intensive cooperation between, for example, TenneT and a German network manager or between TenneT and a Belgian network manager. In any case, these are adjacent networks or networks with which we can also be connected to a cable over distance via interconnections. If it is necessary to support this cooperation, the companies in Germany and the Netherlands, for example, can acquire shares. We'll see if we want to allow that. The House of Representatives added by amendment that this may cover up to 25% of the shares, that it may only be with the agreement of both Chambers and that only an exchange of shares with neighbouring countries may take place. So that's how we're gonna do it. The cabinet does not want this to undermine the principle that independent networks are held by the government. In this way, the cabinet will look at the concrete proposals on this issue. Several spokesmen have spoken about the wiring. From time to time it seemed as if we are now imposing an extra burden on municipalities. I don't quite understand how the spokesmen got there. Cable could only be made if the municipality or other interested parties were willing to bear the costs. The cabinet said at the beginning of the cabinet period that where cables run above ground in residential areas, they have to be underground. Where high-voltage cables in the outside area run directly over homes, those people should be given the opportunity to leave and sell their homes. That house needs to be bought up. The residents must be able to move. This is not directly based on health reasons. It is more about the feelings of the people in the area that they have been expressing for many years, also through municipalities, on many occasions that they do not feel happy with these cables so close to them in residential areas and in the outskirts, when their house is under such a cable. At the beginning of the cabinet period, the cabinet considered that we could respond to this. For the outside world, we have earmarked money for this in the budget of Economic Affairs. In the case of cabling in residential areas, we allow all citizens in the country to bear some of these costs. Three quarters of the cost of wiring is borne by all electricity users in the country. The other quarter must be borne by the municipality concerned. The municipalities received nothing at first and now receive 75% of these expenses. It is therefore a major concession to the municipalities. It is also necessary to allow them to pay an amount themselves, because it also improves those municipalities. You can apply a different planology in a neighborhood and in the vicinity of such a neighborhood when you're off those big cables. The houses under these cables are also worth more and as a result more WOZ tax is paid. In short, it also benefits a municipality. Furthermore, we must, of course, only spend that money on plans which, according to the municipalities, are really necessary. This must be demonstrated by the willingness to make its own contribution. That's how we set it up. It is therefore a concession to the municipalities: three quarters of their costs are borne by all citizens in the country. The House of Representatives has said that you should not have one quarter always paid by all the municipalities, but you should set criteria for that to be justified. It was said: it may be that small municipalities with a large task would have to contribute less than a quarter, and it may be that large municipalities with a small task can pay more than a quarter. That's what we're working on. I think it's possible to work that out. However, I would like to maintain the main lines of action, namely that on average one quarter of the costs will be borne by the municipalities. They will therefore receive a reduction of three quarters of their costs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u31	I don't know if the minister's finished with the piece on wiring. If that's the case, I'd like to ask another question. I was mainly concerned with the following. A municipality that decides to participate in such a project and for that purpose, rightly, provides a contribution according to capacity, must know where it stands. At the time of decision, therefore, she must know how much she has to contribute and how much is then contributed by the network operator. Otherwise, you'll all get decisions in municipal councils that turn out to be hugely disappointing. That is not the responsible budget management that you can demand from a municipality. I would therefore like the Minister to confirm that, at the time of decision, a municipality knows where it stands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u32	I agree with Mr Flierman. Optimum clarity would be provided if we applied this 25% for all municipalities in all circumstances. The House of Representatives has said, with the arguments I have just mentioned, that of the small and large municipalities and of the large and small task: we have to do this differently, we have to draw up criteria that allow you to look at it more nuancedly. I agree with Mr Flierman that you should have that clear first and that then the municipalities should be able to decide on it. I am therefore of the same opinion as Mr Flierman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u33	Can I note it as a commitment that Minister Kamp says: the scheme I am going to design will I design in such a way that municipalities, when they decide, know what they are up to and that they will not get an extra bill afterwards?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u34	No, I think that's how I'm supposed to do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u35	Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u36	I still have a little something. Minister Kamp says "no," but I think he means "yes."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u37	I'm not trying to beat around the bush. I still have to establish that arrangement. Mr Flierman's reasoning is, in my view, a logical one, which I must follow. I will work out that reasoning in that way too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u38	We are also concerned about the uncertainties that can arise. It is good in itself that the Minister says: at least I want clarity in advance. But in the system, and also with the amendment adopted in the House of Representatives, the following is now possible. It is then considered that a large municipality with more capacity could make a higher contribution than a small municipality that cannot do so. It may of course be that later on a large municipality that has to pay quite a lot while the wiring call is not that big, will think: well, then we just won't do it at all. This means that there is a problem for the smaller municipalities, which depend on them. Can the Minister say anything about how he looks at that problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u39	We will also have to take this idea into account when the regulation is being worked out. I told you it would have been the easiest thing to do if we said: first you had to pay 100%, municipalities, but now we come to meet you for three quarters; that is clear and clear for all of you and do it with it. That was my proposal to the House of Representatives. For the reasons I have just mentioned, the House of Representatives said that it should be nuanced. So I'm working that out right now. I have received a logical indication from Mr Flierman. I also think Mrs Vos' idea is logical. That's what I'm gonna bring in.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u40	But of course there may be municipalities, I just mentioned Geertruidenberg, but there are of course many examples that are not very large but do have a huge task, because they are close to a power station and so there are a lot of high-voltage lines. Can the Minister see that it is possible to help such municipalities in such a way that their own contribution is less than 25%? It can be a huge amount in a number of cases if you have to finance 25% of the task in your municipality itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u41	The intention of the House of Representatives was that large municipalities with a small task could reasonably pay a little more, or more, than 25% and that small municipalities with a large task would have to pay less. That is the idea behind the change decided by the House of Representatives. So that's what I'm trying to work out in an arrangement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u42	I have one more question. I asked the Minister: do you not also think that in certain cases it is desirable and desirable that the province should also assume financial responsibility in this respect, because it also benefits from the fact that this is going to happen, especially in situations where there really is a very high task in a region? Is the Minister prepared to include an incentive to the provinces in the scheme he is going to design, in such a situation, to ask the Province for a financial contribution?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u43	I don't want to do that, but I think that contributions can be very good. It may well be that a province decides to do so when it sees that a small municipality has a big task. It is true that such a municipality is to some extent dealt with by the state regulation, but the province may then consider that it could be more. The province also has the resources. She could very well do that. I don't think the county needs incentives from me to do that. The provinces know very well what is happening on their territory. They are in close contact with these municipalities and with the population. So they have it even better on the retina than I do from The Hague. I have said here, in this debate, that I can very well imagine a province doing so. Moreover, a province itself can come up with initiatives, which we can then go into again. It is therefore quite conceivable that the province will contribute to municipal initiatives. I would like to leave it at that. This is what I've been discussing about the wiring. I'm coming back to the transmission system at sea a little more extensively. I have already said that we have divided the review of the Electricity Act and the Gas Act into two parts. Due to the urgency, we have put the transmission system at sea in the first part. We have also done so because it is about system management. That's part of the first part. I think we have rightly put that in there. It is not that I have invented a kind of tying: I want to, but someone else doesn't want to, so if I put it both together now, then maybe I can get it done. That thought didn't occur to me for a second. I wonder if that thought did not occur to some spokesmen: he wants this and he does not want it, so if we link it up now, we might get what we want. So if there were a tying and an attempt to do that, it wouldn't be me. Whether or not that is the case with some spokesmen, they are better able to judge themselves than I am. Mr Flierman and Mr Ester asked whether, if the bill were to be adopted at the beginning of March, it would still be acceptable for the first tender for offshore wind energy. In 2020 and 2023, I must make a contribution to achieving the objectives of 14% and 16%. This means that in 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019 and 2020 I have to make a tender every year for a large-scale wind farm. The first two are at Borssele, outside the 12 mile zone. The last three are off the South Dutch and North Dutch coasts, partly within the 12 mile zone but outside the 10 miles. The planning decision with the participation has yet to be taken there. That's the planning we made. That's a very tight schedule. If a tender is opened and we indicate what can be registered, companies need three months to do their homework. We have experience around the world with this type of large-scale tenders, for which consortia of the largest companies from different countries are formed. All this needs to be organized. To do so, they need to look at how they can technically perform it and how they can come up with the best possible price, so that they can win the tender. It'll take them about three months. But the moment I open the tender, there has to be clarity. It cannot be that I open up the tender and then there will be a government decision a month and a half later which will make things completely different. Then these companies have done their jobs for nothing and they have to start over again. Apart from the fact that this is very bad for those companies, it is also very bad for the name of the Dutch government. The Netherlands must be a reliable partner in this type of large investment. The Netherlands must compete, because there are many other countries that would like to build windmills at sea. Ireland has already been mentioned and the United Kingdom, Denmark, Belgium, Germany and France are also working on windmills at sea. So you have to try to win a certain capacity of that industry for you. That is what we are trying to do by organising our business properly. We have a subsidy system. We have made a road map and a time schedule and we have also selected the areas ourselves. Furthermore, we have already done research into the areas so that it can all be presented to the tenderers on a platter. Moreover, we have created the wind energy at sea Act and we hope that after today we will have a law which regulates the transmission via the use of TenneT. So we have a lot of clarity to offer to the companies and they are also very interested. I would very much like the companies to register on 1 January, but that was not possible because of this debate in the Chamber. That is not a reproach, because I am grateful to the Chamber for allowing me to debate this bill today. However, because of this debate in the Chamber, I have decided to open the tender only after this debate and after the assent of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u44	The background to my question was the motion. If the motion is adopted, and I think it looks like it, then the First Chamber can, of course, deal very quickly with, for example, a novelle or something like that. This is what we saw in this house last week in connection with the Tax Plan. We can all act very quickly. Can I put another question to that, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u45	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u46	The Minister addressed me a few minutes ago about the tying. I think I used that term myself. I did not mean that the Minister had the intention of tying in, but that it might be a tying in the drafting of the bill. During the first term, the Minister noticed that a large number of political groups are struggling with this issue. On the one hand, we want the ban on groups to be removed, and on the other hand, we would very much like to participate in achieving sustainability objectives. This tying, as I mentioned it, is mainly about the drafting of the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u47	With your agreement, Mr President, I will not anticipate the motion because I am still working on other subjects. I will come to the group ban later and to what the spokesmen have said about it. Except I don't have the intention of tying, I don't do it equipment. I'll take over the existing Gas Act and the existing Electricity Act. That's what the group ban's been in since 2008. That law was adopted in 2006. That's just part of the existing law. The only new thing I'm adding is that I would like to use TenneT, because 3 billion in costs can be saved as a result of the use of TenneT. These costs do not have to be borne by Dutch citizens and companies. Now I'm gonna go in on the date.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u48	Mr Flierman, the Minister is not so quick to make a point, so as soon as he makes a point, I will jump in. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u49	The minister just mentioned the date. Maybe he was running into the answer to the question I was going to ask, but that's what I hear. If I understand the minister correctly, he says that a company needs about three months to prepare for registration in such a tender. I get that. The Minister also wants companies to start doing so when it is absolutely clear that TenneT will have the management of the network at sea. If the law does not become a reality today, for example, in mid-January or at the end of January, or if there is at least clarity about the net at sea, can I interpret it as meaning that the tender does not immediately pass through a year, but that it is a matter of a few weeks?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u50	I think a company needs about three months. I have postponed the tender as a result of the planning of this debate. I have discussed this with the companies and I have noted that, if this debate involves the adoption of the law, I can make commitments. Then I can let the tender go through. I still have to publish the law and that means I can open the tender on January 15th. There shall be sufficient time between 15 January and the date applicable in March. The end date is 31 March. So you have two and a half months and that is enough to allow this to continue in a responsible way. When it gets later, it moves further and further. So it depends a little on when decision-making takes place and when there is clarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u51	If the tender is not opened on 15 January, but on 1 February, for example, does that mean that the closing date also has to be reduced for a number of weeks?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u52	Yes, but on the date of 1 February, I can't imagine anything. So I will leave that to Mr Flierman. From the moment there is clarity and I can open the tender, the companies will indeed need three months to register. I have already answered Mr Flierman's and Mr Ester's questions as to why we have linked the issue of transmission for the maritime network and the use of TenneT to this bill. This was done for time reasons and also for the fact that system management is part of this bill. The system management for the network at sea is part of this. Here's what I have to say. If the examination in the First Chamber eventually concluded that TenneT could not be assigned to the network at sea, so let's say that this bill is not passed, then there will be a very difficult situation. After all, I must have something carried out at sea which is technically less good. The operators of the wind farms will then all have to make a connection with the country themselves and TenneT will have to make technical arrangements for this on land. My estimates are that this will cost 3 billion over a period of 15 years. So that is a very unfortunate situation. In that situation, I will see what I can do to get this done as soon as possible. I want to achieve the objectives of 14% and 16%, also in the light of what happened in Paris. I've already had that conviction, and I'd do anything for it. Wind at sea is a very important part of that. So under all circumstances, I will try to realize wind at sea and use TenneT to do so. Mrs Huijbregts has asked whether it is true that the choice of principle for wind at sea has already been made and that it is not really about 'or' anymore, but rather about 'how' and 'where' exactly we are going to achieve it. That's right. We absolutely need wind at sea if we are to achieve that 20% and 23%. It is not possible for us to achieve those percentages without wind at sea. That means there will be wind at sea, as far as the cabinet is concerned. How we intend to do that has also been decided by us. Where exactly have we determined for the location Borssele. The two large parks outside the 12 mile zone at Borssele have already been determined planologically. The other locations which are partly within the 12-mile range, namely between 10 and 12 miles, still have to be decided on in terms of planning. This will have to be done in time to ensure that these parks can also be used for the purpose of the year 2023. Mr Dercksen asked why I do not tender for the designation of the transmission system operator at sea, i.e. for the activation of TenneT. I have already indicated that TenneT is actually the only and most logical party to that. My guess is TenneT will be working with tenders himself. Mr Verheijen asked whether the actual allocation of lots in the Dutch Coastal wind energy area would not be available earlier than after the partial modification of the structural vision associated with the National Water Plan had been initiated. The background to the decision to declare the National Coordination Scheme applicable concerns the construction of the transmission system at sea and not on those lots. I can confirm that there is still a need for a planning procedure for the lots within the 12 mile zone. The National Water Plan must be amended accordingly. Participation is still open to this. I have just said that this is not the case in Borssele. The group ban is the separation between production, trade and supply on the one hand and system management on the other. I have already indicated that a fundamental choice was made at the time. There has been a lot of talk about it since 2002. In 2006, there was a decision on this subject. All ins and outs were considered at that time. The Dutch legislator came to the conclusion that it is important for the functioning of the energy market of the future that you have a separation between on the one hand independent networks that are in government hands and on the other hand companies that can compete with production, supply and trade and offer their energy, electricity or gas on those networks for their customers. This way, as a government, you guarantee the security of supply and you also get optimal price competition, because these companies work together for the benefit of customers. That was the thought behind it. The idea was certainly at the beginning that this logical line we saw in the Netherlands would be widely introduced in Europe. Finally, in 2007, on the proposal of my predecessor Minister Van der Hoeven, the law was decided to enter into force on 1 July 2008. At that time it was already clear that this would not be widely followed and would not be mandatory by Europe. We were convinced that there was a logic in the way we saw and dealt with it and that we had to stick to it. This has been the subject of intensive discussion. Mrs van der Hoeven's proposal to bring that ban into force has also received support, including from the CDA Group. This was then established in the Independent Network Management Act, which is a change to the Electricity and Gas Act. That's when it was stuck. Then it was the law for everyone and everyone had to abide by it. There were some companies that were going to sue against it. Eneco and DELTA continue to do so until today. That means that it was also necessary for a ruling to be given by the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court gave a ruling on this in June of this year. He maintained that legal provision on the group ban. This means that the group ban now also applies to Eneco and DELTA and that they break the law if they do not act in accordance with the group ban. For the enforcement of the law, we have an independent supervisor, but I can't use it as an errand boy. I can't say, and now you're gonna do this or you're gonna stop doing that. I am not allowed to do that, because it is an independent supervisor, who has to see to it that the law is complied with. I have spoken to the supervisor and said that it has a long history, but that with that ruling of the Supreme Court there is now clarity, and I assume that it will reasonably enforce that compliance. That is what he has done through the decisions that have been taken on this issue. The one was given an opportunity until 1 February 2017 and the other until 1 July 2017. In both cases, this is the end date set by the ACM, which also imposes a penalty charge. In this respect, we are now at the end of the journey.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u53	The minister just said that the companies have continued to sue, but the government itself has played a role in this. If a company disagrees in principle with a democratic decision and feels that there is a huge infringement of ownership or functioning, that company can go to court. That's what happened then. Initially, the companies were unsuccessful by the court, but in 2010 DELTA, Essent and Eneco were upheld by the court. The cabinet then decided to go to the Supreme Court, so in that sense the government also continued to sue, because she said: we are going to the Supreme Court. I would like to hear a comment from the Minister on my remark that the Empire has also continued the procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u54	It's exactly what Mrs. Fox says. We have passed the law together as legislators, and then companies have stood up to it. The court has proved us right. The court didn't. We then went to the Supreme Court. As is the case in our rule of law, that is the final verdict. Then we all have to stick to that. From the moment the ruling of the Supreme Court comes, the law is in force and must also be observed. It is not just the cabinet that has done this, but the cabinet has also exchanged this with the representative of the people and has, among other things, received the support of the CDA group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u55	I would like to make it somewhat clear that the companies were constantly suing. The Empire has also played a role in this. The procedure at the Supreme Court ran from 2010 to 2015. At that time, politically little could happen. I would like to put another question to the Minister. There is still a procedure in progress, because there is still a court ruling on the ECHR part of this whole judgment to follow. Why doesn't the Minister wait until that ruling has been made, so that the matter is completely ready before he goes to enforcement?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u56	The procedure took several years. That's the way it is in this country. You go to court first, then to court and then there comes a ruling from the Supreme Court and then you're a few years away. The law was there and it was in force. This means that companies must comply with this. The companies have done the same. There are 7.5 million connections in our country, of which 5 million are now split up through companies. At 2.5 million, that is not yet the case. Those are the companies that are still standing up against it. The case has now been referred back to the Amsterdam Court, but that does not mean that the law would not apply to Eneco and DELTA. The law is in force for Eneco and DELTA. This procedure at the Amsterdam Court of Justice lasts an average of one and a half years. After that, one may go back to the Supreme Court. That could take another year and a half. Then it may be that one goes to the European Court of Human Rights. Then it's gonna be another three years. The questions referred for a preliminary ruling may be referred to the Court at different stages. Then it's gonna take even longer, namely, until 2023. That's seven or eight years after now. All of that can happen, but right now, that law is just in force because of that ruling of the Supreme Court, for everything and for everyone, and therefore for Eneco and DELTA. Those procedures are a journey in itself. It is up to those who initiate these procedures to decide. There is complete clarity about compliance with the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u57	Finally, Mrs Vos, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u58	My question is why it is not possible to wait at least for that one court ruling. An important part of the case before the Supreme Court has been referred to the Court of Justice. I think it is quite extraordinary that it should not be said that this should be clear and that further steps can be taken afterwards. I'd be happy to put that question to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u59	As a result of the ruling of the Supreme Court, the law is now in force. One has to comply with that law. The person who determines whether compliance will be enforced is the independent supervisor. We have deliberately made them independent. That supervisor was asked by three different interested parties to ensure compliance. The supervisor has looked into this and said that he will do so, but that he will respect a transitional period. I am not going to ask myself to wait until there is a ruling from the Amsterdam Court, because then I will cross the ruling of the Supreme Court as a result of which the law is now in force. I don't want to cross it. Moreover, if Eneco and DELTA do not like the judgment of the Court of Justice, I am not convinced that they do not go to the Supreme Court or the European Court of Human Rights, that no questions are asked for a preliminary ruling and that it will not last until the year 2023. I'm not gonna facilitate any more delay. I'm going to do justice to the ruling of the Supreme Court. I am going to do justice to the law that has been passed by the legislator, and I am going to implement it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u60	The Minister is quite right, in my view, that the law should apply and that Eneco and DELTA should submit to it as it stands. In my opinion, however, it is new that a new law is now before us on which the Lower House and the Upper House must give their opinion. This also means that they have to re-examine the group ban. That discussion must be held and it can be on both sides for the Chambers, and therefore for the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u61	Mr Ten Hoeve has experienced this as one of the few from the beginning. After a long preparation, in 2006 the group ban was chosen to be laid down in the law. Then there was a wait for its entry into force. After that, however, it was very consciously decided to allow it to enter into force. When it was brought against it, it was decided to ask the Supreme Court for a ruling. That ruling has been obtained and the law has been maintained. The logic is that you're gonna accept that and you're gonna do it. The cabinet, I can say "the government" because it is a legislative proposal that does not want to take back the group ban. We consider this ban to be important. I will go into this in more detail, also in response to Mrs Vos's questions. A positive opinion has been delivered by the Council of State. The law was then dealt with in the Lower House. The Lower House has also decided to maintain the ban. So we don't come up with anything new. We are leaving something in place that was decided in 2006. In the same law, but under a different title, it is included again. So it simply remains in place, after a positive opinion from the Council of the State and because the government and the House of Representatives want it to. That situation is now on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u62	That seems to me to be a very common situation. The government is putting forward a bill to the Chambers. The government is convinced of the usefulness of the bill. In this case, she's basing this on the entire history behind it. The Chambers are, of course, free to vote for it or against it. That's the reality, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u63	Sure. The House of Representatives dealt with it. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats in the European Parliament has proposed that the law be amended and that the ban be removed. That was rejected in the Lower House. Now there is a proposal which deals with the law as a whole. If you ask me what my view is, I say that my view is similar to that of the government, for which I am speaking now. My view is also similar to that of the House of Representatives, in accordance with the positive opinion of the Council of State and in line with the decisions taken on this issue since 2006. I believe that the group ban still has added value to the energy supply in our country and that we should therefore retain it. That is my view. I've already indicated why we want that group ban. We want the networks to be completely independent, in government hands. Customers or suppliers wishing to use those networks should be able to do so in all circumstances. The risks involved in the production, supply and trade must not go back on the networks. Those considerations are still valid at the moment. I think we all see that at the moment there are risks involved in production, supply and trade. We are in transition to renewable energy. It has great effects. In Germany, for example, integrated companies are commissioned by the government to disable their nuclear power plants and to bear their own costs. A production, supply and trading company such as RWE has lost 77% of its stock exchange value. 100 billion euros has evaporated in that company. You see a similar process at E.ON and Vattenfall. You run the risk of production, supply and trade. In this transition to renewable energy, this process can certainly continue in the coming years. There are all kinds of renewable energy. If you invest in a technique that doesn't work well after a few years, you don't get a subsidy for it. The only way you're gonna get a grant is to produce electricity. If this doesn't work, you're just gonna lose your money. If you gamble on the wrong techniques or make a decision for the wrong technique, that creates great risks. So we do not want the risks to fall back on the nets. The nets must always stay out of it. Partly you can organize this with various measures. Those arrangements were already in place before we imposed the group ban. However, we felt that it should not be possible to do so in all circumstances. Within a holding company, the summit will naturally steer investment. The top decision in which investment is made. For example, one has to invest in something, but because one loses somewhere else, one goes more that way. Within a holding company, all kinds of things can happen that later turn out to have legal effects. In the event of bankruptcy, things are often difficult to fight. That's what you saw at Imtech, for example. In such a large conglomerate there are all kinds of components, mutual obligations and interconnections. Before it's all clear, you're a long way away. You're at risk with it. As a legislator, we said at the time that we do not want to take these risks. We want to keep those nets out of it under all circumstances. That is why we, as legislators, took that decision at the time. The government maintains this decision to control independent networks. The same applies to the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u64	I have a lot of questions about this. I think the Minister makes this point very easily. I think we've legally arranged an incredible amount. We have arranged in the Electricity and Gas Act for the grid management component to be separated. That is a separate legal entity, with its own accounts and separate assets. That is completely transparent. There's a prohibition on lending. There is a principle of non-discrimination, namely that everyone has free and equal access to the networks. A privatisation ban was also introduced in 2010. That's a new point. In addition, there is the Decision on financial management of the network operator. There is regulation by the ACM. There is a duty to provide quality and capacity documents. In my opinion, there is an incredible amount of regulation and supervision to ensure that risks from the energy company are never passed on to the network, which is always invested in the network and that it is freely accessible and completely transparent for everyone. So that's my quest. I cannot find what this group ban adds to the protection of the distribution network in the Netherlands, which is indeed very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u65	If it doesn't add anything, it doesn't take anything away. The companies that now have that combination, contrary to the law, advocate this because they want to maintain that combination. This means that it has added value for the company. The risky and loss-bearing components of the energy production and supply business can be covered by net profits and the financing power of the networks. Thus, the company believes that the networks have added value for the holding company as a whole. I can imagine. I shall go into the points raised by Mrs Vos separately. The point is, under all circumstances, you want complete clarity. You don't want to depend on what's going on behind the scenes. You do not want to wait and see whether the controls you set are timely and thorough enough, whether things happen outside the controls, or whether certain things are done in violation of the rules. That is what is happening, and that has legal consequences again. If you want to exclude all these possibilities because you think this is a basic principle of good electricity and energy supply in the future, you really need to let it be independent and leave it in the hands of the government so that you can guarantee that independence. That is what the legislator said at the time and what the government and the House of Representatives are still saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u66	Mrs Vos, the Minister said he would come back on these points. Or do you have a supplementary question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u67	I have one more question. The Minister began his reply by saying: if it adds nothing, it doesn't take away anything. Can I conclude from this that he also says that it does not add much in terms of regulation, because we have a very solid, well-designed regulation, which in any case protects the distribution networks at all times?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u68	No, I'm convinced it adds something. You take care of things as best you can, but with checks and inspections you have to check whether those rules are being followed. If that is not the case and you find out too late that something is going wrong with such a company in terms of production, supply and trade, it is going back on the network. That might not have happened, but it happened and then you're too late. We just don't want to take those risks. We are willing to take risks in production, supply and trade. That is where we create market forces. I think that was a very good choice. The companies are doing their best to deliver as cheaply as possible to their customers. However, if you allow and allow this competition, you must have certainty about the basis, the networks in all circumstances. That is why we believe that it has absolute added value that you allow it to be independent and that you leave it in the hands of the government. This has added value compared to an attempt to organise it as well as possible with rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u69	I think something strange is happening here. I just heard the Minister discuss with the PVV about some scientists in front of the rest of the world, where the Minister said: I see no reason not to believe the rest of the world. But now I hear him say: we know better; the rest of the world, which is not divided, is not right; we must do it this way. In my view, we can also conclude that the Minister gives his own control mechanism, the ACM, a licence of inability. Maybe he could go into that a little more in depth?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u70	I don't understand why Mrs. Meijer is so mad at me. She says I give a license of inability to the ACM. What the hell is that supposed to mean? I said the ACM is the independent supervisor. Its task is to ensure that laws are complied with. When the Supreme Court declares that a law must be complied with, including by DELTA and Eneco, the ACM, as an independent supervisor, which has compliance as its task, will proceed with it. Next, I say to the ACM that is perhaps superfluous, because it would have thought of that itself, I think that it should give those companies the opportunity to make adjustments and do the things that are necessary. The ACM is going to talk to these companies. Dates will then be set: 1 February 2017 and 1 July 2017. Then, too, these companies must comply with the law that the legislator has already decided on in 2006. Now Mrs. Meijer walks away and says: you give the ACM a license of inability. Why do we have to talk this way now?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u71	Mrs Meijer, you will have the opportunity to explain this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u72	Maybe I can nuance it. The minister just told Mrs. Vos that companies, if you don't split them up, could do some naughty and naughty things and that you'd be late for control and enforcement. I believe that we have the ACM for this: it must monitor and maintain this. I conclude from that that the Minister says: yes, but I do not trust that. I'm not angry; I'm just worried, like the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u73	We all know that enforcement alone cannot prevent things from happening that are contrary to the rules. We have police, a Dutch Food and War Authority, the ACM, but things are still going wrong, causing companies to get fines. If something goes wrong in this, which leads to bankruptcy, we can say that the ACM would have gone back in two months and discovered it, but that would have been too late. We do not want to run those risks with something so important. We are talking here about the long-term supply of energy for the whole of the Netherlands. After years of searching and weighing, the legislator has said that we want independent networks in the hands of the government. That was confirmed three times after that. I see Mr Flierman coming. I have already said that there was agreement from the Ministers Wijn and Van der Hoeven; there was agreement from the Parliament on the entry into force of the group ban; there was agreement from the High Council. We were all there when we did this. Then when the Supreme Court makes the final ruling, I think you should let the system you set up, with careful legislation and an independent supervisor, do its job.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u74	Perhaps then the Minister could indicate how and where things are going horribly wrong abroad. That is not a question of division, but I do not see any energy companies there that are abhorrently abusing their position as a grid operator.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u75	If we do something in the Netherlands that is different from what is happening in other countries, it is not necessarily wrong. It's not a messed-up country here. We are the fifth country in the world with the best competitiveness; we are the number seven investor in the world; we are the number five exporter of the world; we have a leading position in the world in terms of innovation and education; we have an excellent network for the Internet, gas and electricity. We have done so in a very good way in our country. We can be proud of that. We have chosen one of the three methods that you can use to regulate it and which the European Commission has made possible. So we are simply within the framework of the European Commission. The line we are following is the main line followed by the European Commission. Recently, the independent regulators in Europe have said that they believe that greater emphasis should be placed on the independence of network operators in Europe. In Flanders and Wallonia they also work towards independent network operators. In Germany, the debate is also taking place on this subject. The fact that we have done something that is not done in the rest of Europe does not mean that we have done it wrong. We have given this a lot of thought. We are able to think carefully about that. We should also be able to be consistent, especially in this case. We have said politically that it must be done in a certain way and we have been legally right in that regard from the Supreme Court. Then it seems to me to be a logical matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u76	I would like to invite the Minister to continue his speech, because he has some time to go, I suspect. Or can't your interruption wait, Mr. Flierman?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u77	I have another question on a related subject. I will not go into the words of the Minister in which he tells us how the CDA has behaved politically over the past few years; of course we are aware of that and we have taken this into account in the preparation. The Minister outlines the risks that exist at an integrated Dutch company: the supervisor might be late after all. How does he assess the risks for Dutch network companies in foreign hands if something goes wrong abroad? Will this never and never, to his feelings, return to the Dutch network?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u78	Mr Flierman asks about Dutch network companies in foreign hands. The government's line is that there are independent networks in the hands of the Dutch government. That's our line. Mrs Meijer said that, in her view, division does not affect the security of supply. She also mentioned the prohibition on lending. The lending ban was already in place before the group ban was introduced. When the group ban was introduced, the legislator found that the lending ban did not offer sufficient protection. The lending ban sees that an infrastructure company cannot raise loans with the system as collateral. However, this does not rule out the possibility that borrowing can have an undesirable effect on system management, because the risks ultimately fall back on the entire holding company. What if you have a holding company? I have already mentioned the RWE in Germany, where 77% of the value of the integrated company has evaporated. The company could still be in trouble for that last 23%. It's possible. Then that network company is also involved as part of that holding company. We in the Netherlands have chosen not to do so. Only if the system is completely detached from the unregulated, commercial activities, you have certainty. That's the certainty we have now and I'd like to keep. Mrs Meijer said: it is really not necessary to achieve this low price for electricity and the frequent transfer from one supplier to another only by splitting. We must look objectively at the situation in the Netherlands. The price in the Netherlands is low compared to many other countries. You always have to compare prices. That is what the customers are ultimately about. It concerns the price of the product electricity and the storage from the government on it. If you compare the price in the Netherlands with the price in Germany, you can see that households in the Netherlands are cheaper out. SMEs and small industrial companies are also cheaper in the Netherlands. Only the largest energy-intensive industries are cheaper in Germany than in the Netherlands. However, there is a movement going on there which reduces the difference. If you look at the percentage of switching from one supplier to another, there are indeed some countries where that percentage is even higher. However, there are also a few dozen countries where this percentage is lower. We have put together a system in the Netherlands to ensure that, as far as the transition to renewable energy is concerned, we are now on the right track. We have the security of supply well for each other and we have competition at price. The European Commission has also said that in the Netherlands market developments are being passed on to customers. This is happening more here than in other countries. So this price competition works well with us. Switching also works well in the Netherlands. So I think that with our system, we have a good thing going for each other. So I see no reason to change that either. Mrs Vos asked about the added value of a group ban. I have already dealt with this in several ways. In any case, it is good to realise that I am not proposing something new, namely the introduction of a group ban. No, I'm just gonna leave something in the law that's long been laid down in the law and ratified by the Supreme Court. Actually, I do. If Mrs Vos says she wants to end the ban, the burden of proof lies with her and with those who would. We believe that what we have done has been well thought out and thought out for a very long time and that it is still useful. That is our position. Mrs Vos has asked a number of questions about the usefulness of the group ban in relation to the other provisions. I've already gone into that. I indicated that the fact that a system operator, i.e. a network company, is a separate legal entity, does not in itself guarantee independent system management and safeguard the systems of risks in production, trade and supply. In fact, it is common practice for a holding company to control and finance flows across the company's borders. We all know that. You can have a holding company with a network company where profits are made and a production and delivery company where losses are made and where risks are still at stake. If you want to invest in the production and delivery business, you might actually have to do something in the network business. But the money is scarce, so you use it for the production, trade and supply business. That's how it happens within a holding company. If that holding company can benefit from lower interest charges as a result of being part of such a network company of that holding company, this means that the network company actually pays too high interest charges. If that network company were completely separate, it would have even lower interest charges. The holding company has low interest charges due to the fact that it has something in the hands of the government, thus creating a more stable situation with full independence from other companies, and thus low risks. If this means that low interest rates can be obtained, it is very logical that this advantage should benefit those networks. If there are risks elsewhere, it is also logical to allow the risks to be borne there. I already referred to the prohibition on lending when I answered a question from Mrs Meijer. Mrs Vos was right to point out that the Financial Management Decision lays down solvency requirements for network operator. In practice, the supervision of an integrated company appears to be so complex, as I have just explained, that action can only be taken if there are clear abuses and problems. However, this is always an ex post intervention. So you're not at the beginning. That means you're at risk for that reason. That is why I have said that the decision on financial management of the network is not sufficient. The next point is the privatisation ban. There is indeed a privatisation ban, but that only ensures that system management remains in public hands. What is not guaranteed is that the investment choices for the systems do not depend on a holding management. In other words, it is nice that the network of DELTA and Eneco is in the hands of governments, but there is a holding company in between. This holding company may face problems in the production, trading and delivery sector. Then, in the interests of that holding company, decisions will also be made that are different from those made when you take that decision only in the interest of the network operator. It is also not the case that, for example, DELTA is in trouble because of the split that must be made now because the group ban also applies to DELTA. DELTA is already in trouble. It's a well-known fact. DELTA also has a credit rating from BBB-. It arose in a situation in which DELTA did not comply with that group ban. So the company doesn't get into any trouble because of that group ban, because it already has to do with problems. That's because of specific DELTA conditions. This is also due to the general situation for production, supply and trade. I have already mentioned the examples in Germany. That's a big deal. The same applies to the Swedish company and to other companies. There is a difficult energy situation, particularly for production, supply and trade. We do not want this difficult situation to fall into the hands of network companies. Mrs Vos spoke about the investment plan that we are putting forward in this legislative proposal. This is a good handle to get a grip on what the system administrators are doing and to check whether the legal tasks are being fulfilled. The starting point is the expertise of the system administrator. The supervision carried out shall not entail the complete duplication of the work of the system operator. The system operator's expertise shall be taken into account. Instruments such as such an investment plan are very suitable for monitoring independent system operators, but they are not suitable for monitoring integrated companies, where there are risks that can slide back and forth and which can be linked. The system of an investment plan is really a system for independent companies in government hands. We have left the situation for these companies in our legislative proposal as it is today. The next point is the principle of non-discrimination. The division contributes to a well-functioning market, but is not the only necessary condition for this. Of course, more factors are decisive for a functioning energy market, such as the accessibility of interconnection. The Netherlands has good interconnection links with Germany, Belgium and Denmark. We are going to improve it even further. It is also about access for third parties to the systems. We have well arranged for third parties to have access to our system. We have also made it a transparent consumer market and we have provided liquidity in the wholesale market. This means that there are several factors that determine whether a market works properly. Splitting is also part of that. During that split, network companies are independent and in government hands. The rest competes with each other and can make use of it. Customers know that they are always connected to networks that remain and where suppliers have access to. This is part of the good market organisation that we have organised in the Netherlands. Mr Ester spoke about the seven electricity producers in the Netherlands. He asked if DELTA and Eneco were the cleanest or cleanest. the most sustainable energy companies could be identified.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u79	I waited patiently for the Minister to pass on a number of points, for which I thank him. I'd like to ask him a question about that. In fact, he states that despite all the laws and regulations we have, these companies in the holding company simply use money from the network company for other activities. Well, that's normal, so that's what happens. I would certainly like to combat this, because I believe that it is precisely by law and regulation that the accounts are separate, that they are completely transparent and that they are monitored. Even now, there's surveillance. I think you are putting forward a statement that I do not think you can support. Secondly, I would like to ask the following question. Even if it goes wrong and a supervisor intervenes too late and a wrong decision has been taken, the judge can always intervene and annul the decision, because it is a decision that is contrary to the law. I would ask the Minister to respond to these two points.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u80	Mrs Vos summarized what I would have said, but I would like to stick to my own words. I have said the following in this connection. If you have a holding company with a production, supply and trade company and a network company, and a certain investment capacity in the holding company, you may, despite the need for something in the networks, still, due to circumstances, allow investment to go to the production, supply and trade company. If there are risks, we do not want the nets to suffer. The legislator, i.e. the government and the First and Second Chambers, wants the network companies to remain outside the discussion in all circumstances. Whatever happens in a holding company, whatever problems there are, what decisions are being taken, whether it is discovered ex post or ex ante by the inspection, and whether or not rules have been broken: we want the networks to be safe under all circumstances. That is the decisive consideration for the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u81	Minister, Mrs Vos also asked a second question, namely the intervention by the judge.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u82	My second question was indeed about the intervention by the judge. Perhaps the Minister would like to say something about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u83	There are all kinds of cases to think of. Things may happen within a holding company that harms the interests of the network company. We do not want to run the risk of these things. We are trying to avoid everything by means of rules, but we are convinced that rules alone cannot provide absolute certainty, also because of the fact that inspections always take place afterwards. Despite rules and despite judges, you run risks and we don't want to take those risks.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u84	Finally, Mrs. Fox.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u85	I don't think the Minister can justify it very well. He says we don't like it and we don't want to run the risks, so it has to stay the way it is. Has the practice of the past ten years shown at any time that large risks or mistakes have been made within the integrated grid companies in the Netherlands, which have not been made in the different companies? To be honest, I have not been able to find anything that indicates that in any way anything has happened that would endanger the net or that the principle of non-discrimination would have been violated?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u86	I'm not proposing to introduce a group ban. You propose to abolish the group ban, which you first established yourself. It has been discussed very thoroughly. On several occasions decision-making has taken place, in the First and Second Chambers and in the Cabinet. There's been a court-martial. The government now believes that the group ban should be maintained. You think it should be lifted. I say to you, on the basis of the information I have at my disposal and the analyses I have made, that there can be risks if a network company is part of a holding company. If things go wrong in a holding company, it can also fall back on the network company in circumstances. I do not wish to take that risk. That is why I am sticking to what has been decided in a very orderly manner and what has remained in the legal procedure, namely the application of a group ban. If you want to abolish the group ban, the burden of proof lies not with me, but with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u87	Mrs. Vos, can you use your second term for this? I am listening to a disagreement which can undoubtedly be discussed in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u88	I have already dealt in several ways with the usefulness of the group ban on top of the other provisions of the law. What I said to Mrs Meijer and Mrs Vos, I also said to Mr Ester.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u89	The minister didn't really go into it anyway. The thrust of my question and my first comment on this point was that research has been carried out on the seven major electricity producers in the Netherlands, particularly when it comes to the question of how clean they are and what their contribution to sustainability is. The conclusion was that non-divided companies in the Netherlands are the cleanest and most sustainable. I had asked the Minister for a response to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u90	I'll be happy to give it to Mr. Ester. We have not put the group ban in the law because we want to promote sustainability. We have put the block ban in the law because, under all circumstances, we want to keep the gas and electricity networks out of discussion and out of risk. But I would like to say something about sustainability. It is not that only Eneco and DELTA are interested in sustainability and the others are not. From all sides there is an interest in the investments that need to be made in the wind at sea. As an example, a new district is being built between Arnhem and Nijmegen. Nuon is now working on connecting the district not to gas, but to heat. A very sustainable solution is chosen for heating the houses and small SMEs in that district. The first large-scale wind farm in the Netherlands was set up by RWE Essent. The other companies therefore also pay attention to sustainability. Of course there is attention to sustainability, because sustainability has the future. That's what we started with each other. We have an energy infrastructure focused on fossil energy. We will have to move on to renewable energy. All companies that want to remain in place, including in the future, will have to focus on renewable energy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u91	I absolutely agree with you, but it was the finding that non-split companies are doing much better when it comes to sustainability and clean production than split companies. That was the reason for my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u92	I'm not taking over the fact that these companies are doing much better. Renewable energy is increasingly being addressed by energy companies across the board. If DELTA and Eneco are setting a good example, that is all to be praised. Mr Flierman addressed the role of shareholders. It is not the case that the shareholders of DELTA and Eneco are put on the spot and that they have to sell their shares in the production and supply business. They now have shares in the joint, integrated company. If that company is divided in accordance with the law because of the group ban, they can hold the shares of the divided companies if they so wish. Sales are only dealt with if the shareholders so wish. It is quite conceivable that there will be a situation in which, as in the rest of the country, the network companies will be in the hands of public authorities, while the production, supply and trade companies will also remain in the hands of the public authorities. That is up to the shareholders and the governments themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u93	In his reply, Mr Kamp did not address the substance of my question. My question was: do you think that public shareholders sometimes have other motives for approving or not approving the company's activities and not only for short-term or long-term returns, but also for public shareholders to pursue sustainability objectives in their own region or their own area? Wouldn't that make the public shareholder's view of a company different from that of a commercial party?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u94	I think most governments will do that strictly. It kind of depends on who's in charge of a government like that. I sometimes hear parties that have absolutely nothing to do with renewable energy. I can imagine that something very different will happen if they have something to say to a government, but with governments in general, especially so far, I can imagine that it is going as Mr Flierman says. I can also very well imagine that companies see that the whole world is now in the process of moving towards renewable energy, because it is needed, according to the whole world, and that is the future. Those who want to maintain their business must therefore focus more and more on renewable energy in all possible variants. That is what I see happening at the moment, both in public authorities and in companies that are shareholders.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u95	Finally, Mr Flierman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u96	When it comes to this point of view and the view of the companies, I wonder what significance the Dutch Government attaches to the fact that we still have powerful, integrated energy players in our own country. In other industries, we find or found it regrettable when such companies left our country. How does the government appreciate that we now have at least one large integrated company that is also willing to invest actively in sustainability and what is related to it? That large company ceases to exist in this form if the group ban is maintained in the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u97	We do not want integrated companies. We want production, supply and trade to be separate from the network. So we want production, supply and trade companies to be very active in the field of renewable energy. We are also convinced that they are going to do so, if only because of the preservation of their bodies, in order to be able to survive in the future. However, we do not want them in the form of an integrated company in the Netherlands, which puts our networks at risk as a result of the risks involved in production, supply and trade. Mr. Chairman. I have already discussed the enforcement by the ACM and the way in which we deal with the ACM and, in my opinion, also have to deal with it. Mr Ester asks why we have not made use of the decision-making framework contained in the report of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry on Privatisation/Seviation Public Services. The establishment of this framework has been exemplary led by his colleague in the group. It has been mentioned many times today, but with this proposal we are not introducing the group ban. I'm gonna say that again. The group ban has already been introduced. We only maintain the existing line. Whatever's in the law, let's be in the law. So nothing new or different is going to happen, on which we must let go of a decision-making framework. In the run-up to the Independent Network Management Act, a very extensive and careful process has been completed. That led to that law. If you enforce that law, you don't have to go through the whole process again. Moreover, a division does not result in privatisation or independence. As I have just said, I do not mind if the shareholders want to keep their shares in the two divided companies. That's up to them. Mr Ten Hoeve asked how I saw the future of DELTA, in case there was a split. We already know what the situation at DELTA is like at the moment. The group ban has not yet been complied with by the company. However, the company is in the situation it is currently in. The ACM took an enforcement decision and set a deadline after consultation with DELTA. The enforcement decision was taken by the ACM after it had been requested from the market. DELTA may propose further changes to the ACM in the coming period. If we are going to work on this division process and want additional clarity or decisions from the ACM, we can ask for that. DELTA can take into account the changed circumstances in recent years as best as possible. The company can set up the division in such a way that it is future-proof. I am also available, together with DELTA and the shareholders, to analyse the situation regarding the future of the nuclear power plant and to consider what could happen in the public interest, where everyone's responsibilities lie, what problems might need to be solved and what contribution various parties could make to it in a reasonable manner. So I'm available to do that. With regard to employment in the area, I have heard several mention of jobs that would disappear. If the jobs in fossil energy disappear, it is not because of the group ban, but because of the developments in the market. I've already indicated how things are in Germany. We also know what the situation is with parts of Dutch companies sold to foreign companies. The market in the energy sector is currently difficult. That also has its impact on DELTA and Eneco. If problems arise in the employment field, I believe they are caused by the market rather than by the group ban. On the contrary, if you place complete certainty among the economic activities in the Netherlands by letting the networks be in independent government hands, you will fulfil the prerequisite for good economic development and create jobs. As some spokesmen said, there is not only job loss in fossil energy. Jobs in renewable energy are also created. During the period between now and 2020, 80,000 new jobs will be created in renewable energy. Of course, some of them also occur in Zeeland, because the first large parks are built off the coast at Borssele. All kinds of activities in Zeeland can be linked to this. If you look at the whole thing, you can see that there are 15,000 new jobs a year. That is why the trade union movement has signed the energy agreement. In the period up to 2020, that will be 80,000 jobs. The loss of jobs is therefore primarily due to the situation in the energy sector itself, whereas the job losses in that sector are the job losses I have just described.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u98	You started with the loss of jobs in fossil energy. That's why I'm here. I actually expected colleagues to be here; I would have liked that more. We were not so much concerned about job losses in fossil energy as about job losses at Eneco and DELTA. From the e-mails I've read, I haven't come to the conclusion that it's about fossil energy. On the contrary, the people themselves call this mainly renewable energy. I'm a little different in that game, but you can't say that the job loss is caused by the market loss of fossil energy. Because that's not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u99	In my opinion, there is no job loss due to the entry into force of the group ban. In my opinion, job losses in the energy sector are caused by developments in that sector. That's what the job gains are like I just described them on the other hand. Of course you can see that an individual energy company has job losses as a result of developments, but you can also look the other way and see that there is job growth there. It's good to look at the whole thing objectively. You can see that the transition from fossil to renewable energy is necessary and that it creates jobs. On the other hand, as a result of the situation in the existing energy sector, jobs are being lost. You have to take that whole thing into account at the same time. We are now creating jobs in renewable energy and ensuring that the economy as a whole has a very solid basis under the energy supply through the independent networks in government hands. In doing so, we are doing the best jobs in our country as a whole.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u100	I do not yet see the jobs that fall out of the tree like ripe apples in unemployment rates. I am very curious when we will actually see it. You say that everything is going to be fine, because we have renewable energy and because it is going to create a lot of jobs. Then why are you going to set up a committee led by Mr Balkenende?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u101	Mr Dercksen looks at the unemployment figures and is not satisfied with them. There is a decline, but if Mr Dercksen looks closely, he will also see that employment rates are growing sharply. There will therefore be more jobs in the Netherlands. But there are also more people on the labour market because they see opportunities. So there are more people at work, but there are also more people on the market. For them, we must then try to find work again. The parties that have concluded the energy agreement will include employers, workers, energy companies and the nature and environmental movement. They have seen together that we are on track and that 80,000 jobs are expected to be created by 2020. That is the objective picture that we must look at. There's trouble. Those problems need to be solved. They're showing up at Eneco and DELTA right now. In Zeeland there is not only a problem at DELTA. There have also been other companies, which have since disappeared. Problems may arise in the case of other companies. The Zeeland government, together with the cabinet, has considered it useful to look in Zeeland's perspective at what developments are and what can be done in Zeeland to influence developments positively. We would very much like, under the guidance of Mr Balkenende, to contribute to that Zeeland initiative and try to ensure that Zeeland gets the best result.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u102	Mr Pijlman also spoke about the employment initiative taken in Zeeland. Mr Ester spoke on the same subject. I've already gone into that. I've already gone into the nuclear power plant. That nuclear power plant is under continuous supervision, whoever owns it. There is supervision of our own independent supervisor. International authorities also supervise this. That nuclear power station cannot be disposed of without the government's agreement. The nuclear power plant is going crazy because it's safe. As he goes crazy, amounts can be set aside to ensure that that nuclear power plant can be dismantled in the near future. There are several things that require attention in connection with that nuclear power plant. The Empire feels part of the responsibility for that nuclear power plant. Then it is very good that we are now available to discuss this with the shareholders, arguing on their own responsibility. But we also have our own position as representative of the national public interest. We will look at precisely what the problems are and what contribution everyone can make from their own responsibilities to solve these problems. Mr Pijlman wanted the Upper House to be kept informed about what is going to happen with the nuclear power plant. I think that's excellent. I will do so together with the Minister for Infrastructure and the Environment, who is responsible for the independent nuclear control. Mrs Vos wondered whether Essent and Nuon could successfully file a claim for damages. Of course you can file damages claims. Then you can have a view on how promising they are. There's a case to be made about that. It's all possible. Nuon and Essent could do that, but also NutsServices B.V., which uses Budget Energy as its trade name, and the Dutch Energy Society. They could do all that. They could, for example, focus on the European Convention on Human Rights. It will then be possible to assess what the government is doing, what influence it has on the ownership of those legal entities, what their effects are and whether there is a legitimate and reasonable claim on the government on that basis. All of that could be possible. I don't know. We have to wait and see if that's going to happen. This law was passed in 2006. This has led to most households and connections in the Netherlands being connected to an independent network in the hands of the government. That law now also applies to DELTA and Eneco. If we are going to comply with it and the ACM will ensure that compliance is given substance, then I think that claims for damages will not be dealt with. I can put a reflection on it, but if the government's line is followed, then damages claims will not be dealt with. Then I come to the motion that has been tabled. That motion ultimately seeks to achieve the situation in which the group ban is repealed, that it should lapse. I don't think that can happen, that we shouldn't want to. There are a number of objections to this. I have already raised a number of objections. In this way we want to maintain the independence of the networks, but I also find an objection that companies that did not want to split up have been unsuccessful by the Supreme Court. Then I do not agree with the fact that a government, which has made a very conscious decision and is right from the Supreme Court, will then withdraw what that procedure has been about. I think that's an argument too. Furthermore, I think there is a confusing situation. Imagine what the situation would be like if the group ban were repealed. Eneco and DELTA may have both network management and production, supply and trade. Nuon and Essent, who currently have production, supply and trade, should not own networks, because they are not in government hands. They don't like what Eneco and DELTA like. Alliander and Enexis are network companies, but because they are in the hands of the government they are allowed to start production, supply and trade. So you get a situation where there are three different groups of companies on the market that, for illogical reasons, may and may not do things. I wouldn't know how to defend that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u103	The Minister just said that it would not be good to carry out this motion. But what will he do with this motion if it is adopted?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u104	I'll be right there. I was just explaining why we don't like getting the ban out of the law. I have given a number of considerations for this. I have now added that you will then create an illogical, unclear and indefensible situation on the market. Finally, you create a situation in which you allow the users of networks to carry the risk of running elsewhere, namely in production and delivery. I have said that a number of times this afternoon. This is not the case for 5 million out of 7.5 million households, but in a new situation we can grow to that. All in all, you cannot reasonably expect the cabinet to withdraw the group ban. We left the group ban in the law. We have received a positive opinion from the Council of State on this. We have also received the consent of the House of Representatives. That means I'm not prepared to withdraw that group ban right now. If that motion were to be adopted, Mrs Meijer would not reasonably expect me to withdraw the group ban, which would mean that I would take some steps to repeal the group ban. I'm not prepared to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u105	At least that is a very clear statement from the Minister. I wonder what he'll do when he says I'm not prepared to do that. Does he then go back to the cabinet and say: listen, I have a ruling from the First Chamber asking me to do something that I think I shouldn't do? Is he going to discuss this with his colleagues, or is he going to say, "This is it; I am not going any further?"
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u106	No, the cabinet won't rescind the restraining order.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u107	The request in the motion is not so much to withdraw the group ban as to wait until the European Union imposes it as an obligation on all Member States.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u108	The group ban is now in the law. If I had to wait for the same decision to be taken in the other countries of the European Union, it would de facto mean that I would remove the block ban from the law. The cabinet is not prepared to take the ban out of the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u109	We had a novella last night, and this evening, at the votes. There was the situation that the cabinet considered something very important. In the Lower House it was accepted, but in the Upper Chamber there was no majority. Nota bene a fraction in this Chamber perhaps wanted it, while the sisters or brothers on the other side were mordicus against it. In the end, there has been a discussion here in the last few weeks. The lock's tonight. The cabinet always speaks with one mouth. How can it be that two weeks ago the famous letter, the request number of a political group here, the cabinet will give in, because otherwise the proposal will be rejected in the Chamber, and that a minister now says: it will all be, but I really have nothing to do with that? I don't understand. I'm not saying it should be a novel. You can also proceed to phased introduction. I remember that from tax laws of the past and also now. You can introduce a law whereby you specify a different entry date per article. I think that's the royal road. Then time is found to find a solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u110	I understand very well that other dates of introduction are the thrust of the motion, but de facto this means that we will no longer allow the ban on groups to apply where it already applies and that only in the future, if something happens in the motion, the ban on groups can come back into force. The cabinet has no intention of not letting the group ban enter into force. The cabinet wants the group ban to remain in force. I know you can do something with a novel, of course. We do not want that, however. You say something very important was found. Now something is also considered very important. We think it is very important that the networks in the Netherlands remain independent, in government hands. That's what the Cabinet wants.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u111	The motion does not say "the group ban must be repealed," but "delay it." You have the ability to do that in the law. You can arrange a different date of entry into force by Royal Decree. I mentioned another argument to do so. You've hardly gone into that yet, so I'm going to go over it again. There is indeed a change in the vision of what such a sustainable energy market looks like. Is it wise to leave the separation that you so badly want between production, supply and trade so hard with the net? Does a sustainable energy transition not need integration? If we want smart solutions, smart grids, smart behind the meter and all kinds of new techniques, is there no need for more integration? From that point of view, I would argue that we should reconsider whether the road we are on really leads to a sustainable energy transition. I appeal to you to take the time to examine this road carefully and to check whether we do not cut off and make irreversible things that we need later.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u112	I am sensitive to the professions Mrs Vos does on me. Her whole contribution was built entirely from arguments. In addition, she and her party are one of the pillars of the process towards renewable energy for me. So I'm sensitive to that, but I'm not going to investigate it anymore, because we already know that. We have analysed the market in detail for several years. We're on top of it all the time. We are also constantly in conversation with parties. We put questions and they put questions to us. We believe that it is crucial in future for the proper functioning of the energy market in the Netherlands that there are independent networks, networks in public hands. That is the conclusion we have drawn. So I'm not going to investigate anymore. That puts it at risk, especially because you are bringing it into the context of the motion which you have signed and which asks me to withdraw a group ban. I cannot say it more clearly than I just did: we do not want to withdraw the ban.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u113	Very briefly, Mrs. Fox.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u114	I'm not saying cancel the group ban. I think we should be very precise about this. That is not what my group is proposing. My group merely asks: do you want to take the time, do you not want this ban to enter into force, but first have the fundamental discussion about the desirable changes in our energy world? I am convinced that this discussion is very important. I do not understand very well that the Minister says that we all know this already. He also knows that Essent is by far the largest investor in renewable energy. It is one of the biggest players, by far the most important in this market. The Minister also knows that in Germany, where integration is just a fact, there is a long way to go when it comes to renewable energy. I'd like to work with the Minister to see what it really looks like. Can we not take the time and suspend the decision?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u115	We do not allow the ban to enter into force; it has already entered into force. It simply applies to all companies in the Netherlands, including Eneco and DELTA. The decision that we might take is not to allow the ban to enter into force, i.e. to remove the ban from its operation or to suspend it. There are different reasonings for that. You say: let us first discuss all kinds of energy things. That could be a reasoning. There is another argument in the motion: let us wait until things have happened in Europe, in other countries. We do not want it to wait for a discussion or for other countries in Europe. We are convinced that what we laid down in the law at the time and what is already in force is right. We do not intend to take that out of the law or suspend it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u116	I have a question for Mrs. Vos. Does her contribution just mean that she is amending the amendment that GroenLinks has signed? It provides for a suspension of the group ban until other binding EU legal negotiations establish a similar obligation for distribution system operators on the basis of provisions. So that's not until after a good conversation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u117	We support this motion and support it. In view of the Minister's reaction, I am willing and my group is prepared to talk to the Minister again. Can we find a solution somewhere? The importance that we see is that it is now too soon to say that the group ban remains. We think things are going to be destroyed that we'll regret later. I would ask the Minister, Mr President, that this would be a gesture which would at least greatly help my group to take the time to enter into the fundamental debate with us on the operation of the group ban and, in particular, on whether such an integrated company does not actually have a very important significance in the energy transition we want. We could live with it, and I am speaking now only on behalf of my group, if the Minister gives us a hand in this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u118	We are now debating this thorny issue all day. It is, of course, a thorny issue that concerns everyone. Is it not particularly strange that, after we have discussed all the arguments together, the Minister thinks he can say on behalf of the whole cabinet: we do not want this? Isn't it much wiser to go home with this and discuss with your colleagues how we get out of this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u119	I do not need to discuss this with my colleagues, because we have discussed this with each other many times, both within the cabinet and with the legislative bodies. This has been discussed with the First Chamber, with the Second Chamber and with the Council of State, in all smells and colors, for many years. A number of decisions have been taken. This has always been consistent as far as the legislator is concerned. Then there was a legal procedure. The result was that what the legislator had done remained in place. Do I want to deviate from that line, will the cabinet deviate from that? The answer, Mrs Meijer, is no.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u120	So the Minister believes that we have warmed up a cold pot here. After all, you had heard all the arguments and you have answered or tackled them sufficiently.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u121	I had this discussion in the Lower House. There, too, the SP Group considered that the group ban should be lifted. Here you have the same opinion. Others share that view. You and others have put forward arguments and I have also put forward arguments. I believe that what we have laid down in the law in a very careful way, which I believe is really best for the future of energy supply in the Netherlands and which has remained in the legal procedure, cannot be taken out of the law, suspended or otherwise removed. I just don't want to do that. I wish to be consistent in the conduct of policy. I also do not want to do anything that is unwise, which is not good for the Netherlands. In my opinion, it is not good for the Netherlands to let go of our line of independent networks in government hands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u122	Finally, Mrs Meijer, on this point. Mr Van Rooijen and Mr Ester are allowed to interrupt afterwards. There's a second term. It has to be dealt with there, otherwise we'll still be dangling over this one point tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u123	I would just like to point out that the wish of a majority in this Chamber does not concern the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u124	If I have been arguing with the Chamber for hours and I have not finally been able to convince Mrs Meijer, that does not mean that I do not care about Mrs Meijer. I also hope that when I come to Mrs Meijer with arguments and she does not allow herself to be persuaded, I do not give a damn. It's not like that, is it? We're trying to come to a good conclusion on the basis of arguments, aren't we? I'll tell you what that outcome would be according to the Cabinet. Mrs Meijer doesn't think so. I respect that, but the cabinet has its own responsibility. The cabinet does not withdraw the group ban.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u125	Mr Van Rooijen, one brief interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u126	I had the same question as Mrs Meijer. A signal has come out of the Senate in the process of dealing with the budget of the Interior: this budget is not going to make it here. During the treatment of the Tax Plan, a signal has come out of the Senate: you can be shattered. Twice the cabinet caved in. Why is the Minister holding on to something he had in mind before the debate? That is his right, by the way; perhaps we have something in mind in the majority. I also heard the Minister often say that a judgment of the Supreme Court must be followed. I know this used to be the case, but when in 1974 there was a judgment of the Supreme Court on the so-called Coming Back Service that Minister Duisenberg and I cost a billion guilders in one day, we opposed the advice of all officials in...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u127	You would be brief, Mr Van Rooijen!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u128	This is my first interruption, Mr. Chairman. At that time, we said to the opinion of all officials: we are putting aside the judgment of the Supreme Court by submitting a legislative proposal. There were other major interests at stake.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u129	Mr. Ester.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u130	Part of this afternoon's debate is caused by the fact that we are linking the group ban to TenneT and renewable energy. My group has never been in favour of this link. Can I not appeal to the Minister's creativity to think of something intelligent that will disconnect the two? If he succeeds, he would simply get a large part of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u131	If that decoupling meant that I had to withdraw the group ban in one way or another, I would not be prepared to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u132	That's plain language. Have you finished your speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u133	Yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u134	Thank you. We will thus be able to reach the second term of office. I call Mr Flierman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u135	Mr. Chairman. I would, of course, like to thank the Minister for his detailed reply. In any case, we are looking back at an intensive debate on content. The discussion over the last hour and a half on the issues on which we do not agree seems a little obscured by the fact that there are also a few things on which we agree. We have noted with satisfaction the Minister's commitments to develop the cabled scheme in such a way that municipalities know where they stand when they decide on such projects. In any case, the Minister will continue with wind at sea. If the legislative proposal in the form in which it is now before us is not accepted in this house, he will consider other steps, bearing in mind his remark that the net should be available at sea. I understand that the timetable for tender Borssele is relatively easy to postpone for a number of weeks or months without compromising the ultimate goal of sustainability and the contribution of wind at sea. As part of the group ban, a lot has been said about the views of the various parties in this house, on the other hand, and with ministers. The CDA Group had serious reservations about the group ban at the time of tabling the Doek/Sylvester motion and stressed that this should only be introduced if the rest of Europe did so. Looking at the discussions of recent times, there is no difference in opinion between the CDA in the Lower House and the Upper House. I would like to make a comment on the legal proceedings. The Minister is right to say that the Supreme Court has found that the group ban as it currently stands in Dutch law is not contrary to European law. That's other than saying that the Supreme Court has ratified the government's decision. That wasn't the question. The question was whether the group ban is contrary to European law. The answer is that this is not the case. But that is other than saying to the government: You are very right; carry on like this. That seems to be the tone of the debate at times. The CDA Group has asked for a review of the choice of a group ban because it has hesitation in doing so. The Minister maintains his point of view: he cannot be denied perseverance because he has the highest level of security of supply at his disposal. The CDA Group believes that this will soon be further considered in the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats). This applies to the Netherlands in the form in which it is now regulated and that applies to other countries. The CDA Group also believes it is important that a large and powerful Dutch company remains in Dutch government hands that can invest to the maximum in sustainability and that in a responsible manner all new developments around sustainability of the energy economy were brought forward by Mrs Vos, who rightly can accommodate and respond to this in an interruption debate. The position of the Minister on both the content and the motion is perfectly clear to the CDA Group. The CDA Group will soon consider a position.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u136	Mr. Chairman. The Minister has demonstrated very extensively the usefulness of this law, at least as far as wind at sea is concerned. He leaves no doubt about that, but he really misses that power of persuasion when discussing the group ban. The ban was embraced in good faith at the time, but is now completely obsolete. In this room, we've looked at it over the past eight years. We have not seen undivided companies fall down or consumers sit in the dark. Nor has the Minister been able to convince his European colleagues that they should proceed immediately to the split. We know the minister as an optimistic man, but now he's showing himself to be a doomsday thinker. We listen to him well, but does he listen to this room? The little debate we have just had shows us that this is not really the case. A majority of this Chamber does not want the split and will support the rest of the legislative proposal. Why does the Minister not count his blessings and, as he himself says, does he not make a sacrifice that could be made? After all, if he does not, he will make his wind at sea impossible or at least put it at risk. He doesn't have a majority as in the Lower House. We find it very disappointing that the Minister says that he does not want to do so, that he does not want to listen to the opinion of his colleagues and that he does not want to go back to see what he could do with this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u137	Mr. Chairman. The Minister has given extremely comprehensive answers to questions about all kinds of aspects of this bill. You almost forgot: it's more than the group ban. In my first speech, I referred to the Paris agreements. The Minister said that it is extremely positive that we are on track with the energy agreement, but that 'Paris' requires further steps. I ask him: when is the cabinet coming to the Chamber with these further steps? Last night we discussed the tax plan. In the context of the novelle, we also discussed the 100 million earmarked for energy saving measures for households. The Minister said: we shall return to that in the Spring paper. We would like to insist once again that these funds should be spent in particular on the plans which are actually fully ready but for which there has been no money so far. With regard to wiring, the Minister made a number of commitments. You'd almost forget that the cabinet made room that wasn't there before. That is extremely positive. With the Flierman directions, so to speak, it gets even clearer. However, I still have the question of when the cabinet expects to be able to present the scheme, so that municipalities, both large and small, know where they stand. I would like to thank the Minister for his commitments regarding the evaluation of the experimental area. We will be informed of this regularly. He will also present the AMvB to us by means of the suspension procedure. There is one point where I would like to go into more detail: the motion by Jan Vos, which was adopted in the House of Representatives. It explores the scope for infrastructure companies to participate in the whole energy transition. That is an extremely precarious motion. We are well aware of this, especially in the light of today's debate. However, I would ask the Minister once again how he intends to respond to this and what that space might contain. In the development of more renewable energy for this purpose, wind at sea is what we're talking about. We insist that the government is a reliable partner. The Minister is right to say that there will be a number of tenders internationally, that there will also be international competition in this respect, and that it is therefore extremely important that you clarify and clarify what the timetable and the various steps in it look like. In that sense it is also so important that TenneT is now designated as a "switch." I'm getting on the restraining order. I argued this morning that the idea behind it, namely that the system is independent of production, supply and trade, is absolutely appealing to D66. The energy market is on the move. Something's changing all the time. In the event of an interruption, the Minister was right to say that fossil is the past. Moreover, we will have to make use of it for a very long time to come, but the future is sustainable, so we have to make use of it now. If you look at the whole energy transition in Europe and you look at the German situation and the Scandinavian situation, I do not take these two examples; it is about Vattenfall and RWE, then you see the immense risks involved. I referred this morning to the nuclear power stations in Germany and to the reaction of the Land of Hamburg to carry out this division or to implement it. I have also pointed out the huge losses that Vattenvall, 100% a public undertaking, has had to take, for which, in fact, taxpayers pay. The job losses we are talking about today, of course, also have to do with the steps taken in the past by the shareholders and owners of Eneco and DELTA. Moreover, this loss of jobs is not only to be achieved by splitting up. Undivided companies, such as RWE and Vattenfall, are also constantly announcing changes and transitions, precisely because that market is so moving. That is why we support the government in the view that independent networks are of enormous importance. We shouldn't take any chances with the networks. These risks are in the production, trade and transport but not in the networks. That's what the law wanted to prevent in 2006. I think that was a very wise decision. Anyone who is now looking at the energy transition, who sees how many risks there are and how much they are overrated, will have to acknowledge that it is not very sensible to expose the independent networks we have. It would be extremely unwise to take that path now suddenly. I say'suddenly', because it started in 2006, it was ratified in 2008 and then there have been numerous debates about it and perhaps this happened for the last two months ago in the House of Representatives, the Chamber said: do not take those risks. As far as we're concerned, too, I'm just saying in all honesty, it's a rear-guard fight. After all, let us focus on how we want to make our energy supply as sustainable as possible. We're not gonna do that by stretching this case any longer. The companies are going to sue the government. They finally lost that battle. For me, it is perfectly logical that the government should now also enforce the legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u138	My group agrees with the new understanding that, if we want to achieve a truly sustainable energy supply, integration could be the key. We need to move towards new, very smart technologies that deal with both networks and delivery and so on. My question is: has Mr Pijlman looked at this too, does he have an open eye for it? I am concerned that irreversible steps will be taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u139	Mrs Vos has just emphasised this in the case of interruption. It is precisely for this reason that we attach great importance, for example, to the experimental article, to the monitoring of the experiments and to the consideration of the possibility of legislative and regulatory adjustments. At the same time, I believe that, with all the changes that are taking place and with all the experiments that are going on, a government that controls the network has a much stronger position than in the case where it is left to commercial parties as well. Sometimes I think: it is also a marvellous debate, a debate in which we see the SP defending the view that the networks should not be in government hands but should be in the hands of private companies and in which we see the government defending it, which it does attach great importance to. So yes, I fully understand what Mrs Vos means, but at the same time I think that it is precisely for reasons of security and greater control of the matter that it is important that we manage these networks as a government. Then we'll go over it, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u140	But it is a fact and a fact that the networks are public networks. There's a privatisation ban. The nets are public. They are only in two cases part of a larger group and a holding company. In that sense, nothing changes the character of the network. There is a very intrusive and good system of protection for these nets, but Mr Pijlman makes possible integration in this way, which makes new opportunities possible. At the same time, Mr Pijlman says: hurray, an experimental article. What offers great opportunities he makes impossible, but he does want to start small experiments. I think that is illogical.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u141	I do not think we can understand each other now, because we already do not understand each other during the whole debate. In fact, I found it extremely unwise that the political groups had already tabled the motion in the first instance. It did not seem to be aimed at a real debate and dialogue. No, Mrs. Vos already knew what it was supposed to be like. I thought that was unwise. I look at the ownership relationship in a different way than Mrs. Vos. Why can't these two separate parts be in one holding company? That also has to do with the cash flows. That's what the supervisor says. If he has to monitor the cash flows, he's gonna have to appoint a few more supervisors. We find that illogical. We think it is particularly important that every company in the Netherlands should be treated equally and put in the same position for the legislator. This isn't new. The only thing that changes is that the state has won and is going to enforce a lawsuit. I believe that, in the light of our past too, I must admit that everyone has changed positions once in a while and must say: we are going to work on sustainability, because that is our agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u142	Now something strange is happening. Mr. Pijlman says the SP is making a weird move. D66 and SP agreed with each other in the Lower House. D66 has been turned, and yet Mr Pijlman says that I have done something strange. Can he explain that again?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u143	No, I can't explain that anymore, I'm afraid. I wasn't talking about turning. I said that the SP now defends that the networks are not in government hands, but in simple companies, of which the government is the shareholder. That is a completely different situation, because there are commercial interests in annex. I am saying: separate that now, not commercial business on the net, keep it independent, because that gives a much stronger government relationship. I do know that the SP is reasoning from the utility idea. I tried to get into SP ideology for a while, but I understand it went all wrong. So I guess I won't do that anymore. I have one final comment on the motion, which we will not, of course, support. I think she looks a lot like the 2006 Doek/Sylvester motion. I think it had exactly the same starting point. This led us to find ourselves in an endless tolerated situation, in which one company is different from the other. We think it would be wise to put an end to this now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u144	Mr. Flierman, will you be brief? Mr Pijlman needs almost as much time as the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u145	Well, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u146	Okay, that was a little over the top.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u147	Well, I guess I'd better get started, 'cause that'll save us some time. I am pleased that Mr Pijlman finds that there is continuity in the view of the CDA in this House.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u148	Sometimes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u149	I wrote it down anyway. I would also like to point out that the endless hassle he appoints did not arise until the Minister decided to introduce the group ban in spite of the Doek-Syklvester motion. So the whole thing didn't happen when the EU made the ban mandatory, but when something else happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u150	I agree with Mr Flierman. The Minister actually put that motion aside at the time. He replied to my question in the first instance completely the other way around. I've been surprised at that, but it's going too far now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u151	Mr. Chairman. I started my first term with a confession. Given the season, a few days before Christmas, I'm going to do the same in second term. Because I'm a convert. What does that mean? I am an expert in monitoring integrated energy companies. I can tell you from my own experience that the grid business there at the time, when they were still integrated, was really seen as a bag of money. That's what it was called. It was a financing company for new loss-making or risky business lines. I can assure Members that if there was an activity, there would be no hesitation in setting up a new company.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u152	Look, and that's why, fortunately, a lot has changed in law and regulation. Mrs Huijbregts is creating an image that is no longer valid today. There are many protection measures and rules. We all learned from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u153	Exactly. And that's what I was gonna say. Even if there was a split on paper, control was ultimately not with the management of the network company, but with the management of the holding company. Of course, as Mrs Meijer said, the group ban was not really received with some warmth at the time. Absolutely not. There was strong resistance to the group ban and the law independent grid management. After eight years, and that's my confession, I've been converted and I'm in favour of transparency of the system that we had in mind in the Netherlands at the time. It is about the transparency of the energy market infrastructure. I thank the Minister for his comprehensive response. He gave all the arguments for the group ban as such. I would like to add one more thing. We have already mentioned several times today that the ban on groups was established in a democratic way in 2006/2008. For the completion of the implementation, even more so, in the time of the rounding, a number of groups think it was enough in this Chamber. They do not want to make the group ban as foreseen at the time applicable to this law. Mrs Vos van GroenLinks spoke about equality in the event of an interruption. For my group, equality means that the law applies to everyone when it is in force. This is now the case after the ruling, following the judgment of the Supreme Court, which has applied all these years to the other energy companies. I hear a lot of arguments and it's...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u154	I think I talked about a level playing field in the Netherlands. I maintain that in the case of forced splitting, the playing field in the Netherlands is not the same between companies that are covered by a large international dome and the companies that operate in the Netherlands. I think this undermines the level playing field.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u155	There will be a different view of the different companies. The signal given by the motion is that opposition to legislation pays off. Even a judgment of the Supreme Court, our highest court, is dismissed by the legislature itself, precisely by the Chamber which, in our parliamentary system, has to monitor the quality of the legislative process. In GroenLinks' explanation of vote, I am sorry to refer again to GroenLinks, on the Van Weerdenburg motion, on which we voted earlier today, it was said that the GroenLinks Group in the Second Chamber had voted in favour of an amendment of the same nature, but that it was not right or proper to do that again in this Chamber, even if it was a motion here. This does not seem to apply to this legislative proposal and to the amendment which the House of Representatives could not count on a majority. It is clear that the VVD Group will support the proposal as such, but it is also clear that the VVD Group will not support the motion tabled, not because of its content, but because of its nature. In fact, if this motion were to be adopted and, above all, if it were to be implemented, my group would be voting against this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u156	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. First of all, I will come back to the point of the wiring. In any case, the Minister will ensure greater clarity for the municipalities, including in advance, so that they know what they are getting into when they plan to submerge the high-voltage cables. That's good. I was pleased that the Minister said that he thought it perfectly conceivable that the provinces would contribute to the undermining of the high-voltage cables and that he would assume that this would happen. I'm glad he says that in this room. However, he does not want to lay it down in a regulation, which is a pity for my group. Doesn't the Minister see any way of laying down in the regulation he's about to make, at least the good intention he's now expressing? In this way, the Minister's words can also be heard there. The Minister made it clear that if the law were not passed and TenneT was not appointed, he would ensure that TenneT would be involved. I'm curious about that. Apparently, the Minister has a plan B ready. What does that mean? Can he arrange that lead in good time and ensure that wind at sea continues in this way without delay? Can the Minister say something about that? Now I come to the group ban. The Minister said that we had two important points in the separation of production, trade, supply and on the other hand system management. One point was that there must be absolute security of supply and the networks absolutely must be protected. The other point was that there had to be more competition in the market and on the price. In my opinion, the latter is in full swing in the Netherlands and also abroad. There are many new companies that are taking initiatives. There is considerable competition on the price. So I have the idea that in the present factual situation there is no need to change that. The key points are protection and security of supply. The Minister says that it is necessary for the protection of the networks to have the group ban, because the networks must be independent in public hands. However, the Minister has not been able to convince me of this. He has given answers to all the points I have raised, which I simply find unconvincing. For this is strange when the laws and regulations regulate the need for separate accounts, the need for transparency, the need for separate legal entities and also for the privatisation ban. The legislation governing the financial management of the system operator also prescribes all kinds of things. There is also a prohibition on lending. So there is a solid complex of legislation and there is a good enforcer in the Netherlands. Yet the Minister says: you can want all this, but reality is different, so this is necessary. I do not think that is a convincing argument. I also told the Minister that the judge could always intervene and reverse decisions on the basis of the legislation in force. My group is therefore not convinced that this is absolutely necessary. Then the Minister says: the burden of proof lies with you, because the ban on groups is simply there and if you do not want to do so anymore, you have to come up with some arguments as to why you want to change it. Well, I did, and I'd like to come back to that briefly. First of all, I would like to say that the networks are naturally in public hands. It's taken care of. There's a privatisation ban. This applies to all the nets and therefore also to the nets that are now at Eneco and DELTA. Those are just public networks, and so they are protected by very strong laws and regulations. However, the Minister says that he simply does not want integrated companies. In particular, he doesn't want to because he thinks there are risks. My group opposes his reasoning precisely on that point. First of all, I would like to say something about the burden of proof. There is indeed a ruling from the Supreme Court. That is, of course, a very important statement. But, like Mr Flierman, I say that it does not say that the Minister should not postpone the ban on groups or that he should not decide otherwise. The ruling states that the bill complies with all regulations, so this decision may be taken. My group therefore calls on the Minister not to underestimate the importance of these integrated companies for a successful transition to a sustainable energy system. First of all, I would like to draw your attention to the position that Eneco is already taking in the Netherlands. Eneco is way ahead of investment in renewable energy, not only compared to large companies, but compared to all companies. Eneco is number one in the field of wind energy. Two of the three offshore parks belong to Eneco. Eneco has the highest number of heat connections. And Eneco is the biggest investor in biomass. We are not simply enthusiastic about this, but it does show that this company is the great precursor in the field of renewable energy. In this context, I compare Eneco with Essent/RWE. Over the past three years, Eneco has invested 600 million in wind energy and RWE 170 million. So far, the facts only show my group that this is a way of achieving what we all consider important in the Netherlands. Secondly, new insights show that we need to do very smart things to connect the networks and everything that is happening there and consumers with the way we deliver and trade. It is precisely an experimental article that calls for the search for space to better connect what is happening on the networks with what is happening behind the meters at the consumer. How can you influence the consumer? How can you store renewable energy properly and use it quickly when needed? How can you let the nets operate much smarter anyway? There's my big concern. We believe that an integrated company has much more opportunities to do this right. And we believe that this is absolutely necessary for sustainability in the Netherlands. That is why we believe that the group ban should at least be reconsidered. I have therefore asked the Minister whether he is prepared to use at least the article that is now available and which allows him to suspend entry into force by Royal Decree. Let us have another good fundamental discussion on this issue. Because what is needed to make the connection of supply, trade and production with the networks optimal for the sustainable future in the Netherlands? I made that request, but the Minister does not want to go into it. He says he doesn't. I find that extremely disappointing. In this way, with the Minister's reply, it will be very difficult for my group to go with him. I have to consider this very seriously with my group. We believe that the fact that we do not wish to postpone the ban on this group is causing major damage to the developments in the field of renewable energy that we can achieve in the Netherlands. I therefore appeal once again to the Minister. Take a breather. Think about it again. Involve the Chambers in the debate. Come to joint conclusions, because of course this cannot last forever. But put it off for a while!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u157	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for answering my group's questions. The tricky thing, if I may say so, of this bill is that a group is conscientiously concerned about its voting behaviour, if this group is in favour of large-scale winds at sea, but opposed to continuing the group ban. This certainly applies to a group in the First Chamber where the spectrum of voting behaviour is limited to a simple yes, no or postponement. After all, we do not have the right of amendment. Several groups struggle with this dilemma, according to the first term. I was talking about tying. These kinds of laws are a crime from the First Chamber. We would also like to ask the Minister not to want to deal with such other issues in a single legislative proposal in the case of subsequent legislative proposals. I regret to note that the Minister linked these two issues in the legislative proposal and that he does not have the desire to decouple either. After all, he could have pointed out TenneT also in the Law wind energy at sea. It is precisely because of this tying that we supported the Meijer/Flierman motion. It offers the opportunity to pursue the sustainability path in an ambitious way, to meet our energy transition goals, to offer two beautiful, innovative and sustainable integrated energy companies a future, as well as not forgetting the hundreds of workers who are now working there. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats makes this aspect of employment very important. They are companies that, led by their public shareholders among others, invest heavily in sustainability and innovation. My group fears that after division the resources will no longer be available, at least not for Eneco and DELTA. My group considers the ban on groups to be unnecessary and not proportionate. There is no reason for the Netherlands to take the lead in this matter in Europe. The arguments for forced division, even before privatisation, are not strong enough in terms of sustainability, risks, supervision, Europe or any delay. Much has already been arranged and much is already well arranged. The Supreme Court has primarily examined the relationship between EU law and the group ban. But we should not pretend that the Supreme Court has carried out a broad test of all the legal, social, economic and employment aspects. It is precisely this broader weighting that is now ahead. The Minister's commitment is very legalistic, but much has changed in the energy world. Non-divided companies are also very different on the playing field and are distinguished by a sustainability track record. The Christian Union Group is therefore not convinced by the Minister's arguments. He puts the motion beside him, but does not move towards the majority of the Chamber. We very much regret that. The Minister is very armed in the debate. That is of course his right, but we also know the Minister as a very creative man. We want to encourage him to develop this quality further at the end of this debate. We must also realise that we are looking at things very differently now than ten years ago. That certainly applies to the energy world. There's nothing wrong with that attitude. I told you, the Minister is not prepared to implement the motion. This means that we as a group will consider what this means for our final support for the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u158	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for the answers he has given. I would like to briefly address two issues. The various phases in next year's energy agenda have been explained. In the answer I missed the position of the structure vision for soil and subsurface. Although this is the responsibility of the Minister for Infrastructure and the Environment, it also includes the consolidation of the shale gas dossier. The Minister may take this with him in the energy dialogue or the energy agenda he will present in the autumn. It's good to hear if those calendars are tracked or put together. With regard to the application of the National Coordination Scheme, I understand that this has to do with the designation of TenneT and the transmission system at sea. I have not so much heard the positive answer, as expressed by Mr Flierman, that it is also sufficiently secure that TenneT can accept that work. I really understood from the Minister that the legislative proposal before us must necessarily be voted in favour in order to designate TenneT and thus to carry out all the activities associated with it. I saw Mr Flierman walk away with a positive conclusion, but I cannot imagine that this is the reality. We welcome the explanatory statement on employment figures, which are related to the Energy Pact. We have recently received a comprehensive explanation from Mr Nijpels, as Mr Dercksen said. That's where a piece of new economy is really being created. It is interesting to see how it strikes down in the regions, especially those situated on the coast. I believe that the position of the Balkenende Committee is also sufficiently supported.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u159	Mr Verheijen was just looking my way so hopefully when he mentioned my name that I thought: I'm just going to walk to the interrupting microphone. I certainly did not want to say that the state coordination system provides for TenneT to be able to take over the management of the network at sea. I have heard the Minister say, and Mrs Vos has also asked for it, that if this law does not work out, he is considering how to ensure that just at sea and the management of it by TenneT as soon as possible, perhaps through other legislation. I have heard him say that and I have repeated that conclusion in my contribution in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u160	Let us hear again from the Minister whether that is indeed the case. I also understand from the Minister that if the bill fails, the existing legislation, including the group ban, will remain in place. This does not support Mr Flierman's optimism.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u161	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u162	The experimental article and what Mr Pijlman and Mrs Vos have said about it, in relation to the Vos motion, have also been dealt with. I draw the line with the Minister, where he says that this should not lead to commercial parties taking ownership of what is made possible at local level by initiatives described in the experimental article. There is a commitment that we will discuss in the spring the decision on and the further elaboration of the experimental article. In order not to go behind the facts, I think it would be a good idea for the First Chamber to have that debate with the Minister in a close relationship with the other side. This will probably be done by means of a suspension decision and a discussion on the matter. We look forward to that. We will not support the motion, that is clear. We are convinced, in substance, of the need for the group ban. We also believe that there is neither administrative nor legal scope for the government to depart from it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u163	Mr Verheijen spoke about Mrs Vos and the Vos motion, but that was the Jan Vos motion, for the sake of clarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u164	Mr. Chairman. Rarely has a debate been as precise as I expected. That's too bad in this case. I will pass on a number of points that have passed through the debate and then, of course, I will end up with that group ban again. I have spoken about limiting the rise in temperature by all the billions we are going to spend in the Netherlands. That's three thousandth degree. It scared some people. This is a model that the IPCC itself uses, so I can be blamed, but not that I do not know the facts. Of course, CO is a greenhouse gas, so it will eventually lead to warming up, but the scientists agree that the question is whether that has a very big impact maybe the only impact, as many in this house think it has or a limited impact. That discussion is going on in science. That's a good thing, because you have a lot of influences on the climate, such as aerosols, ocean currents and solar activity. Surely it can't be that there's only one button on that climate and that would be CO? Fortunately, there are greenhouse gases. If there were no greenhouse gases, it'd be about 33 degrees colder today. Sometimes the Minister still makes me happy. I have heard him say that he will not grant if something does not work. You can't make me happier. That's why I brought in the numbers of the Sustainable Energy Authority of Ireland. It has found that with an input of 5.2% wind energy there is a 12% savings in fuel. Research then shows that it has not even included the stationary operation of the power stations, nor the extra fuel consumption in the adjustment of the generators. But without all these things, there is already a 21% carbon leakage. Furthermore, scientists have calculated that windmills have a payback time of about a year in terms of CO. That's 8%. Without too much concern, I have already proposed 30% CO leaks. I hope that one day someone will be willing to look at the numbers as much as the PVV does. The experimental space has been briefly discussed as a result of my question of how we can prevent people from experiencing nuisances. Unfortunately, I experience this regularly in the province. The Minister referred to environmental legislation, but it does not provide people with any protection against nuisance from windmills and bio-fermentation plants, among others. Legislation has therefore not been able to prevent this nuisance. I'm gonna keep drawing attention to that. I'd like to go back to grant. Grant is death in the pot for innovation and new developments. Why should large companies that might be signing up for wind at sea be concerned about real renewable energy in the medium term, if they can collect Dutch tax money for free today through all kinds of subsidy schemes? So they don't. We kill the innovative power of business by providing subsidies everywhere. As far as we are concerned, this is a wrong attitude. It is also wrong, for example, because Gemini Windpark is for a large part in Canadian hands. This means that our tax dollars also roll to Montreal and not back to, for example, DELTA and Eneco's offices. Finally, I come to the group ban. I had predicted the Minister's input quite accurately. It is a pity that he is not prepared to have an ear for the majority in this Chamber. At least that's how it seems, let me be careful. We have heard all the arguments from the House of Representatives and the written round again today. There are no surprises there either. Ladies and gentlemen, I have also tried to refute a little. That has not led to the outcome we want. I find it really impossible for us as representatives of the people to opt for Dutch companies and for Dutch workers. I will not qualify this further, because then I run the risk of my microphone being turned off, but I find it insufferable. There may be people at Eneco and DELTA who voted on the VVD at the time because they saw a poster with the text: hold hands instead of the hand. Those people are coming home from a cold carnival today.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u165	Mr. Chairman. It's been getting more and more political in this house for the last few weeks. I've pointed it out before. Think of the Home Affairs budget and the Tax Plan. I've used the word "screw" twice before. The question is, of course, what is the position of the Senate and the Cabinet in this debate? I'm going back to 2002, when the split thought came up. Everyone was okay with that. In 2006, the hesitation began. The Netherlands was actually the only one who took the lead and was very soon the only one. It was a kind of Dutch alleyway. The Netherlands as a guide country: we also heard it decades ago. Two beautiful companies with a sustainable strategy fight for their own future and those of their people. We understand that. Others have already said that. The Minister can bring the windmills to the sea tonight. A large majority support this. There is also moving insight. Time doesn't stand still. Others have spoken about this. Reculer pour mieux sauter, I'd say. The Supreme Court is not the big stirrer in this file. That's already been pointed out. He has only taken a test of European law, as Mr Flierman said. Mr Ester spoke about tying and was thus actually in the middle of the bull's-eye, especially now that the Hoekstra motion was adopted in this senate a few weeks ago, once and never again. I have the impression that such a motion, which has been unanimously supported, has little resonance elsewhere. The reality of employment is also a test which we have to take into account. I ask the Minister once again to reconsider his decision. It's not tying, it's unplugging. Can the Minister say anything about his plan B? I feel extremely uncomfortable thinking that he has a plan B in his head that we do not know about and that we do not discuss.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u166	Mr. Chairman. We know, of course, but there is a danger of snowing underneath: there is a very good bill on the table, in which there is a lot in which we would all like to go with it. There's only one member in this situation that's causing problems: 4.6, paragraph 6. There has been a stalemate with a minister who holds on to his position in principle, because he is convinced of its accuracy. A small majority in this Chamber wants to deal with it more practically and wants to look at the current situation and the situation that arises after division. This majority finds that we now have one large, Dutch company for production and delivery, Eneco. This company also invests extremely much in the transition to renewable energy sources. We won't keep that company if we split up. It is very likely that it will then be sold and that this will also cost a lot of jobs. In addition, we have a company in Zeeland, DELTA, which is in pretty bad financial condition. Without splitting, as an integrated company, the company will probably keep up and find a way out. It still matters to the owners. In the event of a split, the company is likely to become a liability to the owners. In that case, it will certainly cost a lot of jobs there. The question is whether we want to do so and whether we want to do so now. A majority in this Chamber does not really want this and also thinks that there is no risk for the networks to continue to split. That was postulated very clearly this afternoon. If the Minister insists on his position of principle and conviction, there is a problem, even if the Minister has a plan B to enable tenders for wind farms. This does not solve the essential problem. Then there's a problem. As for me, as for many other Members in this Chamber, I have to consider what I have to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u167	Is the Minister able to respond immediately? I see that this is the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u168	Mr. Chairman. It is not easy for me to experience the opposition of Mr Ester, Mrs Vos, Mr Ten Hoeve and others with regard to wind at sea and renewable energy. Like them, I am convinced of the importance of managing the climate problem, reducing CO2 emissions, switching to renewable energy and the importance of wind at sea. I totally agree with them, but I still find them here opposite me. Mr Ester blames me for tying up. I would like to say to him once again that this is really not the case. What is stated in the Electricity Act and Gas Act, I have taken up the substance of this bill unchanged. I didn't come up with anything new. I simply left in the law what was in it and what remained in the ruling of the Supreme Court. I didn't do wind at sea now out of some cleverness, but I was with this part, pointing out TenneT, not yet finished when the wind energy at sea Act was drawn up by me and sent to the Council of State, the Second Chamber and the First Chamber. We weren't done with this by then. So the first opportunity for me to designate TenneT was this one. Moreover, it also fits very well in the first part of the STROOM Act, because this includes system management. The work TenneT has to do for the wind at sea is really under system management. So that fits in here. It couldn't have happened sooner. I didn't do anything with the group ban to link things up either. It didn't happen like that. I didn't look for that controversy with these and other spokesmen. Nor do I have a plan B in hand, I say to Mr Van Rooijen. Also there's no cleverness behind that, that I have something up my sleeve that I suddenly shake out of. If the Court rejects this law, the group ban will simply remain in place. That's two things the Chamber achieves. First of all, there is no experimental expansion. I do not need to look at the various motions that have been tabled in the House of Representatives. The extension that I would have liked to achieve with this bill simply does not come about. Secondly, I cannot point out TenneT for the connection of the wind farms at sea. I do not understand why the Chamber would reject this bill, because it maintains the ban on groups, prevents the expansion of the experimental space and ensures that TenneT cannot be designated, as a result of which Dutch citizens and companies will incur 3 billion higher costs. Besides, there is a delay, because I have to start over. I'm gonna have to make a new bill that's just about wind at sea. I'll try to get that done in six to seven weeks. At that time, I still have to get it through the Council of State. Then I hope it can be with the House of Representatives at the end of February. It must then be dealt with in the Lower House and then in the Upper Chamber. All in all, that's going to last until the summer. So that's a six-month delay. Then there are two possibilities. The first possibility is that I will no longer be able to meet the target of 14% of renewable energy by 2020, which will then be gone. The second possibility is that I have the two large wind farms, which come off the coast of Borssele, built at the same time. Then I must hope that the Lower House and the Upper House will soon agree to that law and that I will be able to do it within about six months. If I want to achieve that 14% by 2020, both large wind farms must be set up at the same time. TenneT will then have to set up two large installations at the same time. While it had first wanted to gain experience with the first installation and then set up the second installation, it had to build those parks at the same time. I would have liked to organise competition in both parks, but I suddenly have to put a lot on the market, so that many can get something from their tastes, which reduces competition a lot. I think that for these two reasons the price will be increased. It doesn't help the quality either, I think, and it will delay for six months. It would sadden me very, very much if this were to happen. I ask Mrs Vos, Mr Ten Hoeve, Mr Ester and others: why should we do this to ourselves? The group ban still stands if you vote against this law, so that makes no sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u169	Then why don't we reach out to each other? This Chamber has said in a majority: you may wind up at sea, but then help us and move out Rule 4.6 (6) for you. The Chamber has also said: take the recess to see if we can get closer together. However, you persist in your no. Moreover, you are now actually blaming the Chamber when it is in your hands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u170	Who's doing tying now? I'm not, I'm not. Mrs Meijer says to me: you are getting wind at sea, but then you must abolish the ban on groups. That's a pure example of tying, not to mention blackmail. I haven't become a minister to do unwise things. I believe that I must provide wind at sea, renewable energy and address the climate problem. I also believe that I must ensure that the networks in the Netherlands remain in the hands of the government and are independent. I am going to go into what Mrs Vos has said about this in detail. Mrs Vos comes up with arguments every time, and I would like to comment on her arguments. Mrs. Meijer's just putting pressure on me. She makes it a tying, to take the word "blackmail" but not in the mouth.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u171	The Minister challenges me to a reply. We have always heard here: if you do not do this, you will not get that wind at sea. Then whose blackmail came from at first?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u172	That is absolutely not the case. I'm just giving you the facts. You cannot blame me for saying here that the group ban has been in the law since 2006. Mr Doek and Mr Sylvester then tabled a motion (30212 H). Following the purchase of a waste processing plant by DELTA, I believe, on a proposal from Mrs Van der Hoeven, it was decided that we would indeed be at risk with these networks. That is why Mrs Van der Hoeven introduced that ban. The CDA has also agreed to this. The case was then referred to the court and the supreme court upheld the decision. Those are all the facts I'm telling you here. There's really nothing else I can do. I cannot help but think that if this law is aligned, there will be a major problem with wind at sea and that the ban on groups will simply remain in place. Those are all facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u173	The Minister first lists a lot of things that he finds very important. I think that colleagues also consider these matters to be important; that is not the case for my group. But at the end of the day, the Minister doesn't think these matters are important enough to listen to a majority in this house. So either he doesn't think it's so important, or he's playing a bit of a game.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u174	If you think I'm playing a game, Mr. Dercksen, it says something about yourself and not about me. I never play games. I've been in this business a long time, and I never play games. I stand here for the common good. It's a privilege to stand here and I have to act like one. So I always do this very sincerely and purely. I don't have anything up my sleeve. I didn't bring any change to turn it in here. I'm making a proposal that I think is best. For the group ban, I propose that we stick to the consistent line that has been in place all these years and that has also been maintained in the judicial procedure. For wind at sea, I propose to use TenneT to save 3 billion in costs. That's what I'm suggesting. You shouldn't call that a game. Maybe you think in games, but I hope you don't. I do not think that is appropriate for your position and for my position.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u175	Very briefly, Mr Dercksen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u176	The conclusion, at the end of the day, is that the minister gives a lot of arguments why he wants the law to be passed. There is one element to this, namely the ban on groups. If the Minister has to make that weighting, he is not prepared to meet the Chamber. I don't have to call it a game, but in the end the Minister doesn't think all these things, that 14%, that 16%, wind at sea, TenneT and I-don't-know-what happened today, are important enough to listen to the Chamber and to drop the group ban temporarily, until the EU imposes the obligation; that's another thing. That gives me some ambivalent feelings about the Minister's great desire to get that law passed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u177	"Ambivalent feelings," that sounds different than "a game." So that's progress. I am here on one mission: to stand up for the common good. If I let go of the group ban, I'm doing the public good a disservice. That's why I'm not prepared to do that. Mrs Vos has said: you must have integrated companies, because so many new things need to be done, conceived, tried and set up, and that can be done much better by an integrated company. I really disagree with her on that point. I refer to the market of production, supply and trade. We first had a few large, central energy suppliers, with one-way traffic. There were large power stations and electricity went to eight million customers. That's how we organized it. Now there are a lot of different electricity and gas producers. We are dealing with biogas, we are dealing with high-caloric and low-caloric gas and we are dealing with LNG. We have electricity that's being rebuilt with solar panels. There are small-scale local projects that have been carried out through the so-called postcode rose scheme. There are also people with solar panels on the roof of their house. They only took energy at first, but they now take energy and they sometimes deliver energy. The postcode rose projects also produce and deliver energy. There are fermenting plants that come out of gas. There is a study to see if electricity can be connected to it. There are all kinds of variants of wind projects. In short, there are a lot of different suppliers of electricity and gas that sometimes take off and sometimes supply. It's all mixed up. That's risky. There are all kinds of things that can go wrong. In that market, where all kinds of things can go wrong, I want to have a solid foundation for everyone, on which everyone can rely. We must be able to trust that these nets are always there, that they are maintained and that they are invested in them. We need to be able to trust that those who manage it only look at the quality of the networks, that everyone can access them and that everyone can also reduce them. You can only guarantee that if you do so with independent networks in the hands of the government. I'm really convinced of that. That is why I am not prepared to turn in the group ban so that we can achieve that wind at sea, which saves 3 billion. Why do I have to do something bad to get something good? I'd like to do two good things.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u178	The Minister strongly disagrees with me. He made that clear. I think we are less in agreement on a number of points. Like him, I think it is very important that a lot of new parties operate in this market, that that space is there. And that's what happens. I think it is very important that there are, on the contrary, many new small parties that are given the opportunity to do so. That is why you need networks that are in public hands, that are very well protected and that are freely accessible to anyone who wants to use them. I can only see now that we are missing another step: that we are also going to see how we can deliver smartly behind the meter. How can we design the nets so cleverly that we connect them with all those sustainable producers? We need to see how we can store too much sustainable power. In my view, it is important that there are also companies which, precisely because they are integrated, can play an important role in this. That's my plea. I see that important things are happening in a country like Germany.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u179	The Germans are looking at our independent nets. I do not want to risk the independent networks for 2.5 million customers by making them part of an integrated company in which decisions may be taken that are not purely in the interest of that network. There is a troubled market that is developing, where suppliers are now also customers and where customers have become suppliers, where instead of a number of large suppliers you have a lot of suppliers and where the position of the large suppliers is much less strong and the position of those other companies is getting stronger. There's a lot going on in that market. I think you should have a solid base underneath it in the form of those nets. I will not say it again now, because in spite of her patience, the President will be angry with me, but I do not want to let go of that solid basis of independent networks in government hands. I'm gonna say it for the last time. I think we need it more than ever. Mrs. Vos has always argued it. She says we've arranged so many other things. But almost all of the other things she mentioned were already there when we decided in 2006, 2008 and 2010 to maintain the ban. They were already there. We thought that was nice, but it didn't give us 100% certainty. We want that 100% certainty.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u180	Mrs. Fox, very briefly! 'Cause I'll take a look at the clock.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u181	You're right about that. In any case, there was one very important thing not: the privatisation ban which guaranteed that these networks would always remain in public hands. I think that's an important difference. And a difference is also that we have gained a lot of experience. We have seen that the Netherlands has not been followed abroad. And we have seen that companies that are not split in the Netherlands are doing an excellent job. I have already asked the Minister to come up with examples where things have gone wrong, where there have been risks. I haven't been able to discover anything myself, and I don't hear from the Minister about it either. I think we've learned some lessons. The protection is perfectly arranged. This is possible. Once again, I am convinced that we will destroy an important opportunity if we continue with the ban on groups.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u182	I understand that I am not convincing Mrs Vos on this point, but I would ask her not to take the illogical step by not supporting this bill. This bill is important for the experimental space, the wind at sea and renewable energy. If this bill isn't passed, it's not punishment for me. This would create a problem for a process that we have entered into and which is constantly difficult for me. I have a hard time defending the wind-on-land projects, I have a hard time defending the windmills off the coast, and I have a hard time dealing with the intermediate period and the extraction of natural gas in Groningen. There's a lot going on. I'm expected to hold the straight course. I also want to hold that course in terms of wind at sea. I need this law to ensure that, in time, by 2020, I can achieve 14% of renewable energy. If this law is not adopted, the group ban will remain in place, but a major problem will be created for wind at sea, for renewable energy and for the objectives we agreed on in the energy agreement. I ask Mrs Vos not to do that to us. I ask the same question to the CDA group. The CDA is partly responsible for the path we have taken and for the current situation. I believe that it can also be a consideration for the CDA Group that, although they cannot agree with me on this, we are in agreement on taking the climate problem seriously, doing justice to the Paris agreements, doing justice to the energy agreement and not realising wind at sea in such a way that there is an unnecessary delay of six months and there are high costs and risks, because we have to put down a lot of windmills and two large expensive TenneT installations at the same time. There's nothing wrong with that. It is clear that the CDA Group does not agree with me on the group ban, but this should not have the consequence of creating a problem for wind at sea and for renewable energy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u183	Mr Van Rooijen, I allow a very brief interruption. And only if you come up with something new.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u184	That's what gives us reason to think. You're asking for something very new from a senator. I'm still new, so I'll get used to it. The minister's got the key tonight. He can achieve the sustainable goal. He can give the Paris Agreement a reinforcement from the Dutch side. Why doesn't he take the time-out? Mr President, whether it's new or not, I had to say it. It's from my heart.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u185	I don't need time-out right now. I know exactly what I want, I know exactly what the cabinet wants, I know exactly what the legislator has wanted so far, I know what the Council of State has advised on this and I know the ruling of the Supreme Court. I don't want to create a fog here. I'm not gonna rescind the group ban, not lift it, not suspend it. I'm just giving clarity to the Chamber. I have also put forward arguments as to why I am not doing so. I do so with complete conviction, because I believe that we need that provision of the group ban for a more responsible and affordable energy supply where there is security of supply in the future. I was in reply to Mr Flierman's questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u186	You're almost done, I suppose?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u187	I am almost done with Mr Flierman's questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u188	I mean, in its totality.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u189	No. I also have a few things to say back to other spokesmen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u190	How much longer do you think you'll need, if I may ask?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u191	I have the conviction that it should be possible in ten minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u192	Ah, fantastic!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u193	Mr Pijman asked me when the further steps will be taken in connection with 'Paris'. For the European Union, the European Commission participated in the negotiations in Paris. The Commissioner has said that at least we must hold on to what we have put together in Europe before 2020. He wants to see how we intend to adapt after 2020. We shall see exactly what the Commissioner has to say. We in the European Union will again make a constructive contribution to this. In January there will be a letter from our side to Parliament in which we will indicate what we think we should do with it. We shall discuss the position of the European Commission in this regard. Furthermore, we will be presenting our energy report at the turn of the year. We will then enter into dialogue. At the end of next year, we will come up with that agenda. It seems logical to me that in this agenda, in which we also incorporate the results of the dialogue, we should develop what has been discussed in Paris. Mr Pijlman also asked when there would be a settlement for the municipalities in the area of wiring. It is not an easy arrangement to draw up. Easy would have been that 25%. First, the municipalities had to pay 100% and now only 25%. Now it needs to be nuanced. I have the amendment from the Chamber to implement. This means that I am now in conversation with the Association of Dutch Municipalities. I want to try to have a concept of the AMvB ready in the summer and submit it to the Second and First Chambers. I had indicated earlier that the whole process of wiring would start from 1 January 2017. With this planning I will be able to make it to Mr Pijlman on 1 January 2017. So in the summer I come with that complicated AMvB to nuance to the different municipalities. Mr Pijlman also asked for a response to Jan Vos' motion. In the Lower House, the question was what the space for infrastructure companies could be. What we have done with regard to infrastructure companies, as we have brought it to the House of Representatives, was very carefully, in an open, interactive preparation with all the parties involved. Now that I have to make a change to that, I would like to go back to talking to all the parties involved. I'll see what the possibilities are and what space there is. But I will stick to my point of view, namely that I do not want the nets to be endangered in any way. In any case, I believe that the network companies that are part of an infrastructure company should be the main target. The activities of the infrastructure company must be directly linked to the networks. It must have something to do with those nets. On the basis of these principles, I will, in consultation with the VNG and other interested parties, look for ways to do justice to the ruling of the House of Representatives, the motion-Jan Vos. Questions have been asked about the further development of the experimental space. I can't work anything out because I have an old AMvB. With the new law I can create a new experimenter-AMvB and so we can move on. Should this bill be rejected unexpectedly, the possibility of continuing to experiment will also lapse. Everyone would very much like to continue experimenting, so that is an additional reason to maintain the law and provide your support, I say to Mr Arrowman, who has already made himself clear on that point. I have answered Mrs Meijer's questions. In her interruption, she returned to the same point she mentioned in her term, namely that there is a link between the group ban, the provisions for wind at sea and the designation of TenneT. I have already responded to that in her interruption. Mrs. Vos has asked me about plan B. That's what I've been working on. I also told her how I see the importance of the independent networks in public hands at this very moment. It is precisely because of the changes she mentioned that I think we should keep the nets as they are currently regulated by the law and that we should maintain the group ban. Mr Verheijen asked about the structure vision for the subsurface and started with shale gas. I am well aware that shale gas is a sensitive issue for the Labour Party. In the cabinet there is a difference between the optics of the VVD and those of the Labour Party as to how to deal with shale gas. We have said this with each other in the Cabinet. What have we done? I've revoked all existing permits to drill for shale gas. Secondly, I have said that there will be no drilling at all in this cabinet period. After that, I said that if there is going to be drilling after this cabinet period, these scientific test drillings will be aimed at the possible presence of shale gas, but also at geothermal energy that you can bring up. If we have the information from those scientific drillings that do not happen on behalf of companies, but on behalf of the government, we will see what we will do with shale gas. Then we'll be five years away. In this way we have placed it outside this cabinet period. We have even postponed the decision on commercial extraction for a period of five years. I think this is a reasonable compromise that has been reached in the cabinet. I would like to keep the support of the Labour Party for that compromise, even here in this house. We will work it out in the energy report in the near future. It will also be developed in this way in the structural visions that are at issue. Materially, it is what I have just said to you in a few words. Mr Dercksen cited the example of wind energy in Ireland. He drew conclusions from that. He had read something about it and drew his conclusions. As far as I'm concerned, those conclusions are wrong. He has put his point to me in written questions. I replied to that. I think it is different from what Mr Dercksen has just said. I refer to my letter of 30 November which I sent to the First Chamber in response to his questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u194	Mr Dercksen: 'Eeny, meeny, meiny, tired'!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u195	I'm not an engineer or a science scientist, but I do have some people who have earned their spurs in the matter. In plain Dutch: they really wiped the floor with the Minister's letter. I really cannot say otherwise, and I was wondering if the Minister had seen the reaction of these gentlemen in the meantime.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u196	I also have a few people who know things. If plans are made and answers are given, that is well thought out. I'd be happy to answer for that. If Mr Dercksen wishes to discuss this again with me at some point, I will gladly do so. Mr Dercksen quoted me when I said that there is no subsidy for something that is not working. I hope that Mr Dercksen knows the system. At some point we grant subsidies for 15 years, for example for windmills. A company then sets up windmills and then receives subsidies as and when electricity is produced. If the windmills no longer work after two, three or six years, there will be no subsidy. You only get subsidies if you produce renewable energy. We therefore have a very good and sensible system. I had already answered Mr Ten Hoeve's questions. I am convinced that Eneco and DELTA, in so far as it is currently under discussion, are under discussion because of the developments in the energy market and not because of the group ban. I have already indicated the current situation for DELTA, while the company has not complied with the group ban all these years. I am also open to discussing a possible employment problem with both companies. I am prepared to consider how we can work together to deal with the consequences. I would like to deal constructively with both companies, but I am not going to abolish a regulation that is important to the general interest so that both companies remain able to benefit from their network companies for the purposes of high-risk production, supply and trade activities. I'm not prepared to do that. I have had Mr Dercksen. In response to Mr Verheijen, I have already talked about the structural vision. Mr Verheijen made a correct analysis of the case in which the bill would be rejected by the First Chamber and of the delay that would result from it. That's what I've been working on. He brought up the experimental article. I would like to talk to him about this if this bill were to be adopted. Then I can further elaborate on the experimental article. I thought that Mrs Vos had also received my response to her various points. I have already addressed Mr Ester at the outset, when I also addressed Mr Ten Hoeve. Mrs. Huijbregts said network companies have long been seen as a bag of money. Mrs Vos said that this is no longer the case. I must say that the profit capacity of network companies and the security offered by the network companies continue to be linked to production, supply and trade in a way that does not benefit the networks. I think that these nets are so important that everything that is done in relation to those nets should benefit them. Mrs Huijbregts also indicated that she would vote against the bill if the motion were adopted. I urge her to reconsider that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u197	For the record, if that motion were to be carried out.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u198	Thank you. Fortunately, then, I have misunderstood Mrs Huijbregts, because I can assure you that, in my opinion and according to the conviction of the cabinet, implementation of that motion is not justified. We are not prepared to do irresponsible things. I believe that I have also responded sufficiently to Mrs Meijer's contribution. I also referred to Mr Pijlman's contribution. I said ten minutes, Madam President, and it is exactly ten minutes!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u199	Thank you!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-11.u200	Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That's the case. Then I propose that we vote on this bill and the motion at the end of the sitting tonight.
