ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-6.u1	I welcome all those present in the Chamber, the people in the public gallery and not least the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations, and of course those who are not physically present here but who are following this debate in a different way. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Van Raak of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-6.u2	Mr. Chairman. I am proud that Curaçao and Saint Martin want to be part of our Kingdom, but that also gives us a responsibility for the people on those islands, especially when it comes to good governance. We've had a meeting on that. I would like to make two motions on this matter today. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is increasing evidence of infiltration of criminal money on the board of Curaçao and Saint Martin;]] [[noting that these practices are detrimental to the international position and reputation of all countries in the Kingdom;]] [[noting that all countries within the framework of the Kingdom have a responsibility for good governance in the different countries;]] [[Whereas financial flows are not limited to the countries of the Caribbean part of the Kingdom, but also between these countries and with countries outside the Kingdom;]] [[Calls on the Government, within the framework of the Kingdom, to allow an investigation into the (illegal) flows of money between the underworld and the upperworld in Curaçao and Saint Martin, between these countries and with countries outside the Kingdom;]] [[calls on the Government to pay particular attention to the influence and action of the (illegal) gambling industry,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that a large-scale theft of data took place in October 2011 with the Curaçao Secret Service (VDC);]] [[noting that information may have been taken from other secret services, including the AIVD;]] [[noting that a number of VDC whistleblowers are prepared to tell their story to the House of Representatives in private;]] [[noting that the government of Curaçao needs permission to do so;]] [[calls on the Government to contact the Government of Curaçao to see how possible thresholds for a closed hearing can be removed,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Raak and Bosman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31568-156]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Raak, Segers and Oskam. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31568-157]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-6.u3	Mr. Chairman. The VVD is deeply concerned about the state of the administration on Aruba, Curaçao and Sint-Maarten. The interwovenness of the underworld and the superworld is great. That's a report after a report. Even more worrying is the indication of where things are going with St.Maarten, for example, according to the lack of initiative to take things up. The integrity room should be something you deal with with both hands, not only on St.Maarten but also on Curaçao and on Aruba. As a result of a court ruling, I am only allowed to make statements on the basis of facts. That is why I want those facts to be visible. "Follow the money" is then the most simple system. That is why, together with Mr Van Raak, I have tabled the motion to make money flows transparent. Money flows show interests. Those interests are in the gambling industry, in money laundering and in the trafficking of women, to mention just a few sectors. The main focus of this motion is on Curaçao and St.Maarten, but I can imagine that Aruba is going to join with that. Because as good governance, you have nothing to hide and you have all the ambition to make it better? This is another litmus test of good governance and integrity. Is it just fine words in the Caribbean countries in the Kingdom or are they also taking action? After all, the proof of the pudding is in the eating.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-6.u4	There have been no other speakers. I propose that we proceed immediately to the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations for his response to the motions tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-6.u5	Mr. Chairman. During the general consultation it appeared that concerns about the state of administration in the countries of the Kingdom are widely shared in the Chamber. I also said at the time that I share those concerns and that I want to contribute to this. For example, Mr Bosman specifically mentioned the integrity room on St.Maarten. As the Chamber knows, we are also setting it up and are even prepared to release significant resources in the budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I hope that the integrity chamber can be set up in such a way that it is able to monitor the respect of integrity independently of the political governance of the moment. I shall confine myself to the motions. In the Van Raak/Bosman motion in part No. 156 calls on the government to allow an investigation into illegal money flows within the framework of the Kingdom and to pay particular attention to the gambling industry. This motion seems to me to support government policy, so I would like to leave the judgment on this motion to your Chamber. I would like to extend the motion even further in the sense that not only the gambling industry, but also drugs, smuggling and trafficking in women are involved. It's all the parts where the underworld touches the top world. I also agree that in the recitals this is seen as a responsibility within the framework of the Kingdom. This is where it's supposed to be. I consider it an encouragement to continue with what we are doing. I would like to make two comments. The first is that I can only speak on behalf of the government of the Netherlands, so where the motion calls for a debate on kingdom matters, it will have to be done there in the National Council of Ministers, but I will do my best to do so. The second comment is that I have said before that I am prepared to look for a budget on my own. I'm not just saying this to mention tasks. I am also willing to make a Dutch contribution to the entire chain of law enforcement, including the Coast Guard, Customs, the police and the D.A. But I don't have that budget for no reason. As the Chamber knows, the government is looking for budget to close gaps rather than just releasing money. So I can't guarantee it in advance. I can only make an effort to do so. With these two comments, I would like to leave the opinion on this motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-6.u6	Thank you very much for that! The minister brought up the integrity room. That kind of thing is meant to prevent corrupt politicians from coming into office. That is, of course, mop up, but with this motion I try to turn off the crane as far as the wrong money is concerned. I am therefore extremely pleased with the Minister's undertaking that he will contact Curaçao, Saint Martin and perhaps Aruba in the framework of the Kingdom. But the stakes must then be that we look at how together we are going to map those money flows, that wrong money. Of course, this is not just about the gambling industry, but also about prostitution, trafficking in women, drug trafficking, for example; the Minister knows it. We also need to look at how we can deal with this in a kingdom, so that we can make sure that the wrong money disappears from politics.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-6.u7	Yes. I would add that the initiative is not always with the Netherlands. For example, the Minister of Justice in Curaçao, Mr Navarro, is often the one who takes the lead, precisely in the kingdom, and also says to the Netherlands: I see a serious problem here, can we work together on this issue? The initiatives therefore often come from different sides and not just from The Hague. Mr. Chairman. I'm coming to the motion-Van-Raak c.s. in piece No. 157. That's not what I'm looking at. First of all, I do not confirm the finding of a possible large-scale theft. I also said during the general consultation: we do not talk publicly about sharing information by the AIVD; let alone about what would have happened to it or not in the future. However, I would advise against this request. If I have understood correctly, the essence of this is that the Dutch House of Representatives would like to talk to foreign whistleblowers who may even be employed or were employed by the security services of another country. I'm not talking about the room conversation. I have said before that, if I can facilitate a role and provide coffee with sandwiches, I would be happy to do so, but I would like to stay out of it. Suppose there is a reverse situation and another country asks if I am willing to send employees or former employees of, for example, the AIVD for a hearing to that other country. That would then be strange; let me put it carefully. I therefore advise against this motion, but with all due respect for the motives behind it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-6.u8	The Minister cannot say everything, but of course we can do a lot of research. Curaçao is another country, but it's not foreign anyway. I want the House of Representatives to be able to continue the investigation I started somehow. There are whistleblowers who would like to speak to us, but that can only be done if the Curaçao Government has given its consent. I would like this committee to make that request, and I would prefer to do so in the first instance through the royal road, namely through our government, i.c. the Minister. That is why the government is asked in the motion to have the Minister contact the government of Curaçao, in particular with Mr Asjes, to see if there is any possibility that the Second Chamber could speak whistleblowers. It is not then the responsibility of the Minister to do so, because the decision to do so must be taken across the street in Curaçao. I would like the Minister's undertaking to the House of Representatives that he will help her make that conversation possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-6.u9	The four countries together form one State, the Kingdom of the Netherlands, but they are four countries on which it has been specified precisely what is or is not a national task and the security services are part of the land tasks. The security service of Curaçao is therefore in fact entirely a matter for the country of Curaçao. If the House of Representatives wants to talk to people from the Security Service there, it is an unusual figure, but it is up to the House of Representatives to make a request. Mr Van Raak further suggests that I would ask the Prime Minister of Curaçao to agree. I would like to say that what you do not want to happen to you does not happen to another. If I were to receive such a request from the Prime Minister of Curaçao, I would be very surprised and I do not think there would be any room to accept it. That is why I do not want to ask that myself, precisely in the context of equality within the Kingdom. I would therefore advise Mr Van Raak not to ask me to ask Prime Minister Asjes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-6.u10	I'm gonna make the request anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-6.u11	That's up to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-6.u12	The votes on the motions tabled will take place next Tuesday.
