ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-9.u1	I would once again like to welcome the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-9.u2	Mr. Chairman. Children must be able to grow up safely: at home, at school, nearby and, of course, in child care. Parents also rely on it, because they bring their dearest possessions to the shelter. That is why it is important that care is safe and high quality. The SP therefore also supports the introduction of the register of persons for continuous screening in childcare. Although there can never be a full guarantee of maximum safety, we must work together to ensure that it is as safe as possible in childcare. This can be done by ensuring that people who may have behaved badly in the past in the area of violence, morality or drugs are excluded from child care. We also see that we have made some progress since the introduction of continuous screening in 2013. In two years, there have been 140 signals. As far as we are concerned, anyone who can pose any risk must be banned from this sector. We do need a clear definition for this. The current definition of childcare workers is rather diverse and too vague as regards the SP. There is now talk of "structured and regular presence in the childcare sector." It may be a bit lame, but Santa Claus also comes into child care structuralally and regularly, namely once a year. I do not want to throw the Minister into a new discussion about Black Piet, but the underlying question is of course: what is "structural" and what is "regular"? That question is very relevant to us. That is why I would like to put two situations to the Minister. I'd like to hear how he looks at that. Suppose a puppet company visits child care every week; should the relevant employee of that company have a valid statement of behaviour and be registered in the personal register? I have another situation. Suppose a childcare facility is remodeling and has carpenters, electricians and painters on the floor for two months. Should these workers then be registered in the register of persons and have a statement of behaviour? In any event, it seems desirable for the SP to clarify the concept and establish independent criteria with regard to duration and regularity. Is the Minister prepared to do so? If he is not prepared to do so, we would like to refer this to the Chamber. I come now to the other part of the bill, multilingualism in child care. That is a bit tucked away in the letter of amendment, but for the SP this is an important point. Multilingualism in child care, of course, sounds very sympathetic. The general idea is that small children are the easiest to learn a language, and that is why we should be doing the right thing if we want to fill up toddlers with knowledge, skills and languages as early as possible. "Young learned, old done," says the proverb. But are we doing the right thing? It is striking that the bill focuses very much on the argument of the Netherlands as a trading nation. The main motive for offering English, German and French in child care is based on economic motives. Our major trading partners speak English, French and German. In the long term, therefore, Dutch workers can act competitively with other international workers. The SP wonders whether it is wise to prioritize this interest at such a young age over learning our own language, Dutch, and the general development of children. For many children, learning Dutch is just a good thing. The SP also regrets that hardly any research has been carried out. The research to which the Minister refers is a study with opinions from education. The Minister takes the view that the most is won by offering space for early foreign language education, including in childcare. The SP had therefore expected hard and convincing evidence, but that does not appear to be there. There are many positive reactions in the study, but no studies have been carried out on the effects of 15% foreign language teaching on the language skills of pupils. At least that's amazing. In addition, the research shows that it is rather difficult for teachers to work in childcare, but the research is about schools to deal with differences in cognitive capacities between individual children and too large differences in the home situation. These effects have not been studied either. In the same research in schools, directors say that scientific research is needed before final statements can be made at all. Such a study should therefore make a statement on measurable effects. The SP would like to see the effects of foreign language teaching on the language skills of children objectively investigated when using the experimental room in childcare and playgrounds. Is the Minister willing to add that if he starts experimenting? The SP is also concerned about the position of the teaching staff. In order to be able to use a foreign language in childcare, teaching staff must have a minimum level of language B2. That's similar to 3F, which is HBO level. Pedagogical staff are trained at MBO level, so they do not have that foreign language level B2. How is it ensured that teaching staff who offer a foreign language in childcare do speak at HBO level? Can the Minister explain that? How is this monitored?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-9.u3	I had to let it settle down for a while. Did I hear correctly that the SP points out here that research would show that bilingualism is bad? If I've heard that correctly, my question is what research shows that it's bad. If not, what exactly is the criticism of the SP on this point? That didn't quite make sense to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-9.u4	Perhaps the Labour Party should learn to listen better. We have not said that it is bad, but that research does not show what the effects are on learning outcomes and on children with language disadvantages. There's been a lot of research on it. The research to which the Minister refers concerns opinions of teaching staff, but it does not measure the literal effects. So we cannot say that children who are receiving bilingual education at a young age get a head start on their later careers. There are a lot of other investigations. For example, a Swiss linguist from the University of Zurich says that learning a second language does not give a clear advantage at a later age. The SP is surprised at these investigations. That is why we expected the Minister at least to come up with an investigation which shows that it is really helping. We have not been able to find that in the research offered by the Minister. That is why it is still a matter of consideration for us whether this is wise. Mrs Yücel knows as well as I do that it is already very complicated, for example, in disadvantaged areas for some pupils and children in childcare, to use Dutch language in a good way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-9.u5	So I did hear it right. The SP Group is not convinced that it is better; it is now putting it the other way around. What does this mean for the SP Group? Does she say, "I don't want that, the bilingualism in child care?" Does she then know that it is evil?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-9.u6	Perhaps the PvdA group should have her ears sprayed for a while, because I am all being put in the mouth here that I have not said. We have said that the research cited by the Minister does not show that it has a positive effect on learning disadvantages and on the language skills of pupils. The SP believes it is important that before we set up a sector, this is an idea that does not even come from the childcare sector itself, but I think that the Minister has invented behind his desk on such an assignment, certainly has that effect. As I said, we have doubts about this and we are expressing it here in Parliament. I expect the Minister to respond shortly. Then my group will take a deliberate decision on this, as it always does.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-9.u7	I'm watching, Mrs. Yücel...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-9.u8	Perhaps briefly, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I like it when we treat each other neatly. That's a personal fact. I have a follow-up question. When you talk to people in the field, you hear that there are childcare organisations that really want this. I think I know you're also an education spokesperson for the SP, Mrs Siderius. This is also an issue in primary education, promoting multilingualism. I am simply really looking for the reason that it would be less good for a childcare organisation, whether the SP is set up or not. I'm still not getting that clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-9.u9	If the PvdA Group had done its homework, she would have known that the SP had not voted to introduce it into education, for the bill referred to here. This was due to the fact that the Secretary of State was unable to submit any studies during that debate which showed that it had a positive impact on the learning outcomes of pupils. The same applies now to childcare. Yes, we have great doubts about that. I had a conversation this morning with the industry organisation of childcare and asked what they thought. They said that a number of childcare institutions that can count on one hand might want something with this. That is why we have just asked questions about the experimental space. However, there is no very strong call from the childcare sector. The SP takes that into account in its considerations. I was at the position of the teaching assistant. Pedagogical staff must have at least a language level of B2. That is HBO level and teaching staff are trained at MBO level. This means that we must ensure that we increase the foreign language level of the teaching staff. How does the Minister see that? Can he explain that? How is this checked for? In bilingual education, there have also been researches done on this. A large part of the teachers are native speakers, and that turns out to work very well, that people who come from England are going to teach English or go to work in child care. The other hired teachers all had the level of Cambridge University. This level is far from being achieved with the B2 level proposed here. My question to the Minister this evening is also what we do with a staff member who has difficulty speaking English, but simply speaks Dutch well, is educationally educated and is in permanent service. Can the owner of a childcare institution soon demand that a pedagogical employee do his work in English and, if that employee does not want to do so, can it even be so that the employee is dismissed for that reason? The SP Group has not yet taken a final position on this bill. However, we do have our doubts. That is why we have put questions to the Minister. We hope to get good answers to that so that we can make a good judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-9.u10	I have to start a little bit of parliamentary work. I had a question about the first part of Mrs Siderius' speech, but she was now so passionate about multilingual childcare that I thought: I am not going to interrupt her on the previous point. But at the end of the first part of her speech, she addressed one of the most important concerns surrounding this law quite specifically. That has to do with that presence. She also gave a number of examples. The industry has also investigated this. At the very end, she indicated that she might want to submit something on this matter to the Chamber. Does the SP have an amendment or a motion in preparation? In fact, I think that there is a wide-ranging question in the Chamber as to whether this is clearly formulated enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-9.u11	Yes, we have tabled a motion, but the SP always awaits the Minister's reply first. That may surprise Mr Van Weyenberg, but that is...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-9.u12	New, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-9.u13	... it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-9.u14	I would like to congratulate Mrs Siderius on this new insight.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-9.u15	I will pass it on to the group. In any case, we believe that this definition could be more specific. I understand that it's very difficult and that you say, is "regular" once a week or twice a week? However, we want to establish a kind of band in which we ask people to do so, because it is about the safety of children.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-9.u16	Precisely around "structural" and "regular" which are used in each other's response, there is concern within the industry. Does the SP in the motion it is considering call concrete frameworks to define that, to make that clear?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-9.u17	No, the SP is not going to come up with a single definition here. It seems to me right that the Minister should consult with the industry on how this should be designed. The SP isn't gonna impose that from above.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-9.u18	Mr. Chairman. The continuous screening system is important for a safe environment for babies and children in childcare. That is why my group can support this proposal, in line with the Group of the Party of European Socialists. We have also supported the earlier law, the first stage of continuous screening. We are also positive about this law, which completes and completes the system. In the written questions from the Chamber and the answers from the Cabinet, very often the question of whether there is an absolute guarantee with the continuous screening system that nothing can ever go wrong. The answer to that is, of course, no. Is safety guaranteed? No. And is this law a kind of stimulus to the idea-fixe of a risk-free society? The answer to that is, of course, no. However, as far as my group is concerned, it is a fine system, which, even without the false pretension of a risk-free society, makes an important contribution to a safe environment for babies and children in childcare. And the cabinet repeatedly and rightly emphasizes in its written response that it is not a substitute for alertness, which should also be there. When we discussed the first round of continuous screening in the Chamber, various groups raised questions such as: why this strict system in childcare and not in other places? At the time, it was said, also from the cabinet, that it could also have some sort of pilot function and perhaps the system could also be applied in other places if it is successful here. I am curious to see how the Minister is looking at this at the moment between the first and second stages and whether the Cabinet is considering whether such a system could have added value in other sectors where babies and small children are working. Around the bill there are a number of specific concerns expressed both in the Chamber and in the sector. The first relates to the calculation of the cost of registration in the personal register set up by this law on continuous screening. The Council of State is critical of this and states that there is not only a personal benefit, but that there is also public benefit as a result of this law. Isn't it more logical and reasonable for the government to take a share in it? The Council of State is suggesting some kind of Samsam, but I find it difficult to cut it at exactly 50%. I would like to get a more detailed explanation from the Minister, since in the written reply much is being given to the private person, to the employee, while the public interest is indeed very great. I think that will be brought forward by almost all the participants in this debate. When I read through the written round in the run-up to this debate, I came across a question from the D66 Group, namely whether staff working both in childcare and in education should apply twice. The Minister's answer to that is no. If the vog is up-to-date, it can also be used in childcare. But also in the past period there have been examples of childcare workers who have indeed been targeted by the GGD organisation, because they had a vog with the name of another institution above it. I am thinking of a teacher who is going to work part-time for various childcare organisations and who is applying for one vog that he or she uses for several institutions. Can we see the Minister's answer so that in such situations it is a thing of the past and that it will not happen anymore, because it is important to be up-to-date and not to what organization that has been issued? My last concern has also been expressed widely by the industry, and that concerns the scope of that register. Mrs Siderius also spoke about it and quoted Saint Nicholas. In my view, it is also specifically mentioned in the sector research. What about that structuralally regular thing? Do we not run the risk of having child care providers of the GGD hard hitting their fingers when they really thought they had filled in the data to their conscience, and that structuralally present regularly is too unclear? The list provided by the industry is very long and contains many questions. Can the Minister clarify a little more about what this means on a regular basis? I have not yet seen a motion for a resolution on this issue, but I can imagine the idea expressed by the SP, namely to fill it in, since uncertainty can lead to a great deal of fuss and can therefore be at the expense of supporting a system for which I believe there is broad support here in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-9.u19	Mr. Chairman. The Amsterdam sex case in childcare is still in our minds, I think. The approach of childcare policy, which has already been used in the field of screening, including childcare workers, is to limit the chance that it will ever happen again to the absolute minimum. I also heard Mr Heerma say that it is important that we continue to realise that, as much as we would like to, absolute guarantees do not exist and are not possible. However, you can do everything you can to ensure the safety of children. One of the measures is the screening of teaching staff and other people who regularly attend childcare. We have since 2013, but certain employees were not yet included in the files. That is an unsatisfactory situation. The cabinet is now choosing my group's support for a personal register in which we are trying as closely as possible to ensure that everyone in child care has a vog and that there is a signal if, for example, someone was convicted. I support that line. This also applies to the possibility of multilingual reception. I think that's a good extra offer that's being made possible. Of course, I am particularly curious about the experiments in children between 0 and 4 years of age. I am also pleased with the space offered for the care of children between the ages of 4 and 12. I have a few more questions. Many of my group's questions have been answered with great satisfaction, including in the note on the report. I'd like to have said that here once. They are extremely clear answers. I thank the Minister and his staff for that. I still have six specific questions. First of all, we are talking about the "structured (regular) presence" and the unclearness about it. Both Mrs Siderius and Mr Heerma mentioned this. I notice that there are still a lot of questions about this, especially at host parents' offices. I understand that you cannot make an exhaustive list of the presence of each individual, but I would ask the Minister to consider this in his reply. I find this ambiguity rather annoying. Many host parents now tell me, and I think my colleagues too, that they want to meet it very much, but do not know what they are being tested for. They say: of course we can be expected to accept our responsibility, but we really think this is a struggle. I would ask the Minister to go into that further. Hopefully he can give us another explanation. Indeed, Sinterklaas has been mentioned, but I can mention many other examples of someone who occasionally but regularly, and therefore structurally, visits a reception site. I am also curious whether the Minister can tell us specifically what the argument is to include people who are in the office, who do not come into contact with the children on a daily basis or who do not come into contact with the groups at all, in the register. The Minister writes: yes, they have personal data. I too think that is very important, but there are a lot of people dealing with sensitive personal data. That's not the reason to ask for a vog. I'm sure there's more to this plan, so I'd like to ask the Minister for further clarification. In a broader sense, D66 believes it is very important that we ensure the protection of personal data in such a register. The Personal Data Protection Board did, however, have a number of comments on the original legislative proposal. The Minister writes that he has processed some of these comments, but I wonder if the College is now satisfied with the current version of the bill. Can he accept the college's approval? In particular, I am concerned with the one point in relation to which he seems to be a little out of the question: to consider the holder of the childcare facility as a'manager'. That all sounds very technical, and of course it is, but it is about who the processor of the personal data is. The cabinet has postponed this choice in the second letter of amendment and wants to study it further. I can tell from that that the cabinet still has doubts about the opinion of the College. I ask the Minister to go into that further. What's the reason why you can't just take that advice? I, too, had a follow-up question to the fact that childcare, preschool facilities and education are increasingly finding each other in integrated child centres, a subject in which, as far as my group is concerned, we still have to take huge steps. Steps in municipalities, in locations, in a particular school or in a particular kindergarten run counter to all kinds of barriers. I too will hear this, as will Mr Heerma. The Minister's answer is: this is no longer a problem if it is topical. But how come I still hear this a lot as a bottleneck? I'd like to get another reaction to that. They are themselves responsible for deregistration from the register. I am concerned that this is going to be one of those registers that fills up, but from which people never disappear because they may not have an interest in unsubscription. So you can have a very polluted register. Questions were raised about this in the written round prior to this debate. The Minister strongly stresses his own responsibility, which I understand in itself, but is he prepared to monitor specifically that the register is as up-to-date as possible? I do not know if we have an interest in it if it is contaminated. Finally, I have a question about the vog. I'm asking if I understand. If someone who has a statement about the behaviour and gets involved in a fight in a cafe and if the Public Prosecutor decides to prosecute after careful consideration, then, with such a specific suspicion, a signal will appear in the register and this person, who has not yet been convicted and whose case the judge has not yet agreed on, will lose his statement about the conduct? If I understand the Minister's answer correctly, he says: yes, unfortunately, that can happen. I think that's a heavy substance. Especially if there's a suspicion of a sex crime, of course I can imagine that you want to take action right away, but I think this is a complicated point. I have to say, I'm struggling with this. For example, if you do not enter the register because your vog has been withdrawn because you are suspected of violence at a cafe, and later it turns out that you are cleared of all blame, you may have been fired by your employer. For not having such a vog is simply a reason for immediate dismissal, the Minister writes. I understand the Minister's struggle very well, but I would like to have some further clarification on this. How are we gonna do this? Does anyone, for example, have the right to return if he is cleared of all blame? I'm just calling it a cross street. I understand very well the step towards the vog, which we are using more and more widely at all, but it is and remains a very heavy instrument. I am thinking in particular of young people who once came into contact with justice through a young faux. For example, we have also reduced the deadlines for this, so that it does not become an eternal professional ban. I would therefore ask the Minister to go a little further on the whole point of withdrawing the bird.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-9.u20	Mr. Chairman. A safe climate for all children, including in the shelter. It is, of course, fantastic that we are all committed to this. We also have a good proposal for this from the Minister. I can even remember that, after that terrible sex case in Amsterdam, a PVV motion by my former colleague Van den Besselaar was at the basis of the continuous screening with vog's. It is good that we, as a party, have been able to contribute to this, and that we, as Chambers with Cabinets in particular, are working towards a safe environment for children. That's only good. We therefore support this ambition. Child safety must not be at stake in child care. It must always be a safe haven. We do not need to talk about the terrible examples. It is therefore a good thing that people who want to work in childcare should register in a new register of persons. Continuous screening is fine and we need to marginalize the risks. As Mr Van Weyenberg said: you can never completely rule it out, because it is a line that never hits the zero completely but must be able to approach it. The asymptist, we have to catch him anyway. We expect this to happen in existing cases as well. That is what my first question is about. It has not completely become clear to us whether this is the case. Can the Minister confirm that it will also be well regulated in existing cases, so that anyone working in the sector can be quickly entered in the register without any problems? How does the government ensure that this transition takes place properly? Let's call it a transition. Then how does the Minister keep the finger on the pulse with regard to the checks, which also happen municipally by the GGD on behalf of the municipality? And what happens if not all persons are entered in the personal register by a childcare establishment? Individuals are responsible for their registration and cancellation and the system is transparent for registered persons, holders, municipalities, supervisors and administrators. Where is the stick behind the door at that moment? I would like to hear about these two questions concerning the Minister's clarification of controls. It is good that everyone in the childcare sector will have to have a vog, but how is the cabinet going to arrange that people who go wrong can never get into such a position with children again? I'm saying "never" now, when I just said it's almost impossible to rule out, because you always have a small risk. But still, how is this government going to get us as far as possible in excluding the risk? Then I have a brief question about the tso, the inter-school shelter. There was still a little confusion for myself. I suppose that's what it's gonna apply to that, too. The schoolyard is now pretty much the most expensive place to have lunch. You pay a few euros as a child and after ten minutes you get kicked out to play a little. Does this also apply to the people who "guided" this? I have heard some less enjoyable experiences about this, asking around in my surroundings and in the field. So it also applies to the tso? We await the answers with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-9.u21	Mr. Chairman. The PvdA attaches great importance to the quality and accessibility of childcare. This also means that, where we can, we must continue to invest in the safety of childcare. With the Amsterdam vice case from 2010 still fresh in memory, the PvdA Group welcomes this change in law. It is a legislative amendment aimed at improving the safety of childcare facilities and thereby at improving quality. It is the responsibility of the government to protect the most vulnerable groups in society as effectively as possible. Is there indeed an absolute guarantee of safety? No. We must also realise that. But we do believe that we must do everything we can to make it as safe as possible. This change of law brings that one step closer. With the introduction of a personal register, it will be possible to screen all employees in this sector. In our view, this will help to further improve the safety of children in childcare. Together with the improvements envisaged and the safety measures taken, this fits in with the view of the Labour Party about investing in young children. The continuous screening system can only succeed through rapid reactions, good monitoring and strict enforcement. It is important to respond quickly to signals from the continuous screening system. In the note following the report, the Minister states that a person who has come into contact with justice will be able to be prevented quickly by means of the system. Can the Minister explain how long this is going to take? Is this about days, weeks or months? For the Labour Party it is also important that checks at locations take place frequently and properly. This is the only way to check whether the holders of childcare facilities ensure that all employees are registered in the system. Can the Minister explain how often the GGD intends to carry out inspections at locations? Does this also mean an intensification of inspections? What about the capacity of the GGD? Are there enough inspectors to visit the childcare facilities? Does the Minister intend to send the GGD more frequently to the locations on the entry into force of this change? Of course, they have worked on this in recent years, because this is the second part of the law that makes continuous screening even more complete, but yet I ask these questions again. The municipalities may take enforcement measures as a follow-up. Does the Minister intend to draw up guidelines for municipalities to ensure uniformity of sanctions in the Netherlands? Is the Minister prepared to draw up these guidelines in consultation with the VNG and, if possible, share them with the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-9.u22	Does the Labour Party argue for more inspections by the GGD at local level in childcare and host care? Do I understand the argument that well?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-9.u23	I am trying to say that I want to make sure that the inspections are carried out to a sufficient extent. I know, for example, that inspectors only visit host parents' offices in the north once every four years or so. If there is a risk that a host parent will be able to obtain an inspection at any time, this will also work sufficiently. Are there enough inspections? Can the number of inspections at host parents be increased slightly? Can we do that within the existing capacity? Are the risks of inspections, if any, well spread to childcare organisations and also to host parents as far as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-9.u24	That's a good answer. Mrs Yücel talks about the north of the country, including Groningen. This was, among other things, the inspection of host parents' offices. It appeared that only 5% of host parents were inspected on an annual basis and that host parents could expect an inspection once every 20 years. We all thought that was too low. Can the Labour Party explain to me today why it voted against the SP motion to lift those inspections? That motion is from January this year. How is it that the Labour Party suddenly turned its position 180 degrees?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-9.u25	I remember that debate, but I am also very honest when I say that I do not remember the exact argument why we voted against it. If I dig very deeply, it has to do with a problem of coverage that we had at the time, but also with the fact that it could come back in a debate on the evaluation of the inspection. I remember that, but I am sure Mrs Siderius will complement me if this was flawed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-9.u26	I do not need to supplement the Labour Party, but I do find it special that Mrs Yücel is now saying 'coverage problem'. For the Labour Party it is therefore: if there is money, then we will inspect a lot and there is no money for a while, then the safety in the host parent care does not matter so much. That is, of course, a very strange reasoning. I am curious to see what coverage proposal the Labour Party will come up with to ensure that the inspections in the host parents' care are increased.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-9.u27	Mrs Siderius makes a conclusion that is very short. At that time, there was a need for cover that was not there anyway, but I am trying to point out that raising quality or doing good for the Labour Party is not always a question of money or more inspectors. It is also a question of organising these inspections even better. That is why I would like to take the opportunity, if we do that evaluation in the next child care debate, to consider whether we can do the inspection at the host parents' offices with the more limited capacity so that the risk of inspection remains so high that it will have sufficient preventive effect to have your business in order. That's what I'm trying to bring up. I'm moving on. The explanatory memorandum did not properly identify the employees in the continuous screening system. Several groups have already said a few things about this. I am going to go into this in detail, because I think it is also a very important point. It must be clear: if we adopt a law, implementation and enforcement must be clear. The explanatory statement refers to'structural presence'. In the note following the report, the Minister discussed this further, following questions from the PvdA Group and from other colleagues. There is a structural presence when a person is present at a reception location repeatedly during reception times. That would be pretty much the wording. We thank you for this clarification, but I will also take up a few fictional figures. I realize that the Minister will not be able to give a comprehensive answer to all these fictitious people, but I would like to highlight the feeling. Let's say someone comes up to the windows once a month. Or that there is an accountant with a flexible workplace, who is sometimes in the building and sometimes in his own office. Also, a volunteer can occasionally help with the administration, or maybe a sniffler comes along. Can the Minister indicate whether or not they should be in the register of persons? The question is whether it will be clear enough with the Minister's explanation or whether we will have to do something with this in order to get the law passed properly. In addition, the Minister states that the time between the moment of a hit due to a change in the JDS and the moment it becomes clear to the employer that a person has not received a new vog is a few months. Is that right? At the time when the person concerned is requested to submit a new vog, the person concerned will normally be turned off. The Labour Party would like the Minister to instruct all childcare institutions to disable a person with a hit immediately until they can consult a new vog. How does the Minister view this proposal, and is he prepared to take it over? In line with the College's protection of personal data, it is important for the Labour Party that the role of the holder is clear. Can the Minister state whether there is any clarity about this? How is the holder's role defined and how does it relate to the opinion of the CBP? I'll be on my last block. The PvdA Group does not agree with the Minister's interpretation of the principle of profit. On the basis of the explanation given in the note following the report, the Minister concludes that the costs of registration in the register of persons are fully passed on to the childcare staff. He is in agreement with the Council of State's assessment. The government and the employee should bear the structural costs in proportion. As the CDA Group pointed out, the introduction of the personal register also serves a public interest. So it is not just the childcare sector that benefits from good supervision and strict enforcement. Is the Minister prepared to contribute proportionally to the costs of entering the register of persons? The Labour Party welcomes the provision of multilingual education on childcare/bso. However, it is important that the Dutch language remains central. In this way, we ensure that everyone can connect properly. This bill provides a good definition for this purpose. I had some doubts as to whether I should raise the next point in this debate, but Mr Van Weyenberg also made a point of it. I am referring to the withdrawal of the vog and not providing it if you have committed a mistake in your youth that may not even be so heavy, certainly not in the time frame of 30 years later. Does that have to be charged so many years later? What if later it turns out someone's innocent? How does that work? I can imagine that it is not entirely within the competence of this Minister to respond extensively to this. I very much like the continuous screening and the vog system to ensure safety in child care, but we must remain vigilant that we do not go through. We have to keep an eye on that. So much for the contribution on behalf of the Labour Party. I look forward to the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-9.u28	Mr. Chairman. A lot has already been said by colleagues about the bill. Some of them mowed the grass at my feet. I will highlight a number of questions and comments and add some extra colours here and there. The VVD is in favour of a system of continuous screening, as proposed in this bill. It is important to remove people who are at risk of harming small, vulnerable children. This has proved successful so far, because on average seven people are filtered out of the childcare system every month. I think it would be a good idea for the Minister to state again for the sake of clarity which 82 vogs are involved. What kind of crimes or behaviors are we talking about? It must be clear that not every crime leads to not being able to work in child care. The Amsterdam-Robert M. case has already been mentioned. He committed his previous acts abroad. One of the recommendations of the Gunning Commission, which has carried out research and has drawn up recommendations, was to examine how the exchange of vogs with abroad can be achieved. Is it now so arranged that a case like Robert M. can no longer be prevented? The Gunning Committee has made many recommendations, some of which have already been mentioned. Will the Minister also evaluate the results? As far as the VVD is concerned, that's what happens. The starting point must be that there is no risk-free society. If you want a 100% security guarantee, you will face infinitely high costs and infinite commitment. For example, you will have to put an inspector in every room and every room in childcare. That's not gonna work. My group would like to see careful consideration given to the recommendations made by the Gunning Committee and those which have not worked well. Much has already been said about the "regular" and "structural" criteria. What exactly is that? As far as my group is concerned, it is obvious that the Minister should consult with the sector in order to define it precisely. He will also have to look at the functions involved. I understand from the industry, for example, that the gardener and the cleaner do not come into contact with the children without someone who does have a vog statement. It's of course well-meant... you want safety for children... but isn't it too much? Perhaps the Minister could discuss this in his consultation with the industry. The distribution of costs has also been raised by a number of colleagues. How do you split the costs? The Council of State states that part of the Vog declaration and entry in the personal register are of private interest. After all, you can only get started after that registration. At the same time, children's safety is an audience and a public interest, and that is why, like Mr Heerma, I say: do those costs Samsam. The Minister's documents state: For the time being, registration is free of charge. That is possible, but I am also curious about what will happen in the long term. As far as we're concerned, it's obvious to do it together, just to say it popularly. As far as we are concerned, the proposal on multilingualism in extracurricular care can be accepted. We thus join primary education. However, it is important that we set quality standards. You don't want us to speak the English spoken in Manchester by Louis van Gaal, who talks about "we are running behind the facts." We don't want coal angels here either. We do not want 'running behind the facts' because the training is not properly arranged.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-9.u29	Mr. Chairman. It is good to note that there is such broad support for the improvements we are making on this subject, which has been put on the agenda by such a horrific event. It is equally good that all parties stress that despite all these measures and improvements, the risk-free society is an illusion. In this respect, it remains the search for effective measures and not guarantees, because they do not exist. I'm gonna stick to answering the questions. All more general considerations on the legislative proposal are contained in the explanatory memorandum. I shall begin with the subject of structurality. What is that supposed to mean? What about Saint and Peter? What about the occasional gardener, et cetera? You can indeed unleash a huge amount of casuism on that. I understand that there is a need for more clarification of the concept of "structural" for stakeholders. I can't give a perfect, final definition of that right now. For example, is it weekly or monthly? A partner who lives in the same house is eligible, but someone who is actually there permanently with a lath relationship would like to be included. So it's not possible to prescribe that exactly. However, it is important that this is the concept, but it is also important to try to work it out more closely, because that is what we need. I believe that this was also Mr Mulder's request on this point. That is why I am ready, in consultation with the industry, to focus on communication on this issue, and also to look with the supervisor at clarity about how the supervisor then handles it. The latter is also very important for stakeholders. We can then lay down this in the supervisory policy rules. In this way, I would like to pledge: to shape communication on this subject in consultation with the industry, and to lay down the way in which the supervisor responds to it in the supervisory policy rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-9.u30	It seems to me very good that not only the industry itself but also the supervisors, so the 25 GGDs that we have in the Netherlands, are also watching this. Can the Minister state when he expects to have clarity about this? Is he prepared to send this to the Chamber so that we can return to it and see if it meets our expectations?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-9.u31	I'd certainly like to do that. I cannot give a time limit for this; I shall return to that in the second term. I need to look at the regular moments when that is discussed and what is a realistic moment. Isn't it too far to ask the gardener for a vog? The starting point is to apply this only to those persons who are repeatedly at the reception site during reception hours. It can therefore apply to a gardener who maintains the garden at those times. It doesn't have to be if he keeps doing that at different hours. Again, that shows how difficult the definition is. It is really about: repeatedly, during reception hours and at the reception location. If the gardener is there, he could in theory also pose a safety risk and it is also right that he should be obliged to vog. What about people who work in the office? Why do they have to be in the register? That was a question from the D66 group. The first question was from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. The question about the office is from D66. The reason is that these persons have access to child data, could abuse it and could, for example, have access to specific data on the family and camera images. For these reasons, this category has also been brought under the obligation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-9.u32	Thank you to the Minister for this answer. This gardener doesn't come into contact with children on his own. There is always someone who does have a vog and is registered in the personal register. Isn't it a step too much to include that gardener in that personal register?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-9.u33	It is precisely the law that aims to make anyone subject to authorisation who can come into structural contact with those children. The fact that there is only someone else who is obliged to vote is not enough. Otherwise, we should have applied that criterion to other people. After all, we have the four-eye principle most hours of the day. So you could say that only one of them has to have a vog. Still, that doesn't feel as safe as you'd like. You need to find a balance at this point, as with other topics. The criterion that has been chosen and which is in itself well defendable is that you must bring people who are frequently present at the shelters during reception hours and who can thus come into contact with the children under the duty to vog. Mr Mulder is right that you can always ask yourself whether it does not go too far. What about the cleaner, for example? It is often present outside the hours when children are being cared for. That is the ratio behind the criterion. What about a concrete suspicion without conviction? Could it lead to a signal? That is not at odds with the rule of law, the D66 spokesperson asks. At the moment when the prosecutor has decided to prosecute, a description is given in the JDS. That's gonna get a hit in that system. The Justis department then assesses whether the offence could lead to a refusal of the vog. If that's the case, there's a signal. A signal leads to the registered person being blocked in the register. Until such a person has a new vog, he is put on inactive. If that person does not receive a new vog, he shall be unregistered from the register. In itself, this is how you'd want it. The D.A.'s gonna decide to prosecute. That doesn't just happen. There must be reasonable suspicion and so on. Because it's about the safety of children, you don't want to wait until the trial, which may take months, is settled; you want to rule out the possibility of danger. So Justis looks at: "What is this thing? Is it so occasional and so far away from the risk that it is irrelevant? No, we think this is so serious that there will be such a signal." Then someone is not definitely screwed, because he can apply for a new vog. Then we'll consider whether he should get that vog. Then it can also happen that he gets that vog again, for example because the trial is further advanced and the suspicion appears to be much less serious or because they have the wrong one. Then the non-activity will be lifted and that person will be able to get back to work. But there is an immediate effect due to the signal, which reduces the risk immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-9.u34	I thank the Minister for the comprehensive answer with a timeline. I understand you have to do something with such a signal; doing nothing is not an option. Do I understand correctly that you are going on inactive until there is a judge's ruling and that only if you apply for a vog again and you don't get it, is that reason for the employer's immediate dismissal? So can this non-activity continue as long as the trial goes on and you let it go? Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-9.u35	I wasn't talking about dismissals; I was talking about whether you're allowed to work. With regard to the question of whether there is sufficient grounds for dismissal, possibly on an immediate basis, the normal rules apply, in which this plays a role, of course. You can't say that the moment a lawsuit goes on, you can't be fired. Indeed, there may be sufficient grounds for simply satisfying the grounds for immediate dismissal. I was merely talking about the registration in the register as a condition sine qua nun to be able to work in childcare again. That's where the system works as I just outlined it. Mr Van Weyenberg mentioned the risk of a possible false accusation of a sex crime, with the resulting fairly serious effects, including on this point. In this respect, I believe that there should be some confidence in the D.A.'s assessment. He's not just gonna sue someone for a sex crime. Everyone realizes the impact, the risk if you don't prosecute someone who does commit sex crimes, but also the huge effects on one's privacy if you wrongly prosecute, for example after an easily expressed false accusation. It does have immediate consequences, but these are the consequences that we wanted to see together because of the vulnerability of very young children. There has also been a request for possible contamination of registers. A person registered in the register may be unsubscribe on his own request if he no longer works in child care. We do not consider the risk of pollution to be high. If the registered four months is not linked to a holder in the register, the registration shall automatically be terminated unilaterally. As an administrator, the CIBG has been instructed to monitor the register for pollution. For this purpose, links are provided between the personal register, the BRP and the National Register for Childcare and Preschool Playrooms, as well as a periodic comparison with the policy administration of the UWV and the Trade Register. That seems to me to be three or four locks on the door that should limit this risk. The Labour Party asks how long it takes before a signal leads to action. The time between the signal and the supervisory action is about two to four days; then it runs as I just outlined. If an acute risk to the safety of children is identified, action will naturally be taken immediately. This is about the situation where this is not the case, but where there is a signal that is serious enough to work through the Justis service and so on, so to go through the chain I just outlined. What about designating the holder as editor under the Personal Data Protection Act (Wbp)? Has the opinion of the CBP been taken on this point? The Minister for Social Affairs is responsible for this specific register of persons within the meaning of the Wbp. The actual actions relating to the processing of the data shall be carried out by a processor to be designated, in this case the CIBG. That processor shall ensure that the personal register is managed in its entirety. This means that individuals can register, that data is exchanged with the Minister of V and J and that reports as a result of the continuous screening end up with the supervisor. In addition to the obligation to register, the holder also has access to the register of persons in order to be able to link the employees working for his company. If the holder can establish a link, he also knows that the employee working for his company has a valid vog and is registered in the personal register. By creating and ending the coupling, the holder has the role of editor in the sense of the Wbp. The General Measure of Management lays down the measures applicable to this holder to ensure that the data are lawfully processed by the holder. In this way, the opinion of the CBP is taken on board in its entirety and the processing of the register is carried out by the holder in accordance with the Personal Data Protection Act. The Labour Party is asking about the withdrawal of the Vog. What about when someone's innocent? The youthful sin also came along. The signal itself does not result in the dog being withdrawn. The signal is reason to assume that when a new application is made, someone will no longer get a new vog; I just outlined that. In the event of a signal, the supervisor will require a new vog from the employee. That new application shall be definitively reviewed as to whether a person can benefit from it. If that is not the case, a person may always object to that decision and appeal. If innocence is proven, I do not see why the dog would not be provided. Every time, it's considered whether or not someone should get that statement. That consideration can also take into account a juvenile sin of 30 years ago, which can be charged less heavily, while repetition of, for example, violent crimes, which are always subject to a very heavy charge. That makes sense to me too. Mr Mulder asked which crimes were eligible for this treatment. It's about sex, violence, drug and gun crimes. Crimes from those four categories may give rise to a signal from the continuous screening. Can municipalities maintain in the event of violations? Are guidelines for enforcement being drawn up? The municipality will certainly be able to maintain in the event of a breach of the register. If a person is wrongly not registered, but is employed, that is reason to proceed with enforcement, as is the case now with the absence of a vog. The current instruments for monitoring and enforcement can be fully deployed here by the municipality. The pass-through discussion was discussed by several parties. The Council of State is critical; what about the public benefit? It is good to note that the sector itself also benefits from improving safety. That is why, in my view, you should ask for a contribution from the sector. A proportionate distribution of the burden among the different parties has been chosen. Certainly not all costs will be passed on. The public authorities bear a substantial part of the costs. During the first period, registration is free for all persons. That's a huge amount of people. A person only needs one correct dog for registration. In this way, 180,000 people can enter the register without registration fees. My idea is to let that period run until the end of next year, so that you allow the entire group of people who do that work to enter it for free. During that period we also pay all the implementation costs for the register. Afterwards, an amount of €600,000 in costs will be charged in the form of the registration fee: €12 per subscription until 2018. In this way, in 2016 and 2017, the government will cover at least 1.4 million in costs of the 2 million, more than half of the costs for the registry. Passing on part of the costs to the sector does not lead to unacceptable consequences for the sector and is in line with the opinion of the Council of State that the costs are borne in proportion. Of course, I do not yet agree on the costs of supervision, which are also simply borne by the government. That is why I think it is a reasonable cost allocation. The CDA asks whether, now that we have worked for an initial period of continuous screening and are entering a new phase, we believe that it could indeed be appropriate for other sectors where young children are employed. I still believe that it is quite conceivable that continuous screening should be introduced in other sectors, for example in the field of youth care. My colleague from VWS is investigating the possibilities for this. We are with other sectors interested in the system of continuous screening. We show how it works, what the pros and cons are and what it brings with it. In the end, it is up to these sectors to make their own assessment as to whether it is the most appropriate instrument for this sector. Finally, I can say that the Secretary of State for V and J will come up with a vision on this point. This is, of course, closely linked to the system of the Vog. I do not know exactly at what point, but he has announced that he is coming up with a vision of that point, because it naturally reflects the effect of that system. I come to the questions of the Socialist Party, among others, on bilingualism. It asks whether it is not based too much on the arguments of the trading nation. It is important to distinguish between the possibility of bilingualism in the bso and for the young children in the nursery. The OCW's legislative proposal aims to link primary education with multilingual secondary education and to prepare for a society that is becoming more international. With this change for the BSO I aim to improve the connection between primary education and extracurricular care. You can also put it differently: I do not want to ban languages allowed in education in the bso, where those children end up after that same day of school. Did I think of that at a drawing table, or was it made up in the department's caverns? No, it meets the wishes of parents and institutions who have asked for it. Young children have the unique, envying ability to learn one or more languages playing. Learning a foreign language at a young age can have a positive impact on the cognitive and linguistic development of a child. Not all, but some parents would like the young child's linguistic sensitivity to be optimally exploited by offering a foreign language at a younger age. Perhaps they are hoping and expecting that their child will be able to gain a better position in the labour market at much later age. The question was whether with those much younger children, about which much less research is actually known, it is not wise to objectify what the effects are. I very much agree with that. With this bill we make the multilingual bso possible. If we are to allow experiments to be carried out for the daycare of younger children, that still needs to be put all the way into the scaffolding. That possibility exists on an experimental basis, but we still have to formulate the requirements it has to meet. One of the demands I will always make in this regard is that I admit that independent objectivable research into the effects. I have no reason to believe it's bad for those kids, but there's just very little research into its effect. So if we're gonna experiment with that, I think it's wise to look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-9.u36	The Minister specifically commented on the suggestion made by the SP that the Minister himself had devised it at his drawing table, at his office in the department. Mrs Siderius also said that the industry states that only a handful of institutions have this wish. Is it true that this is a handful or is it a much broader call?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-9.u37	I'd say three or four hands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-9.u38	Quick calculation: then that is less than 10% of the industry. I just want to get back to that investigation. I want to know if I understood correctly, because I had prepared a motion on this point. In my opinion, the Minister has just promised that if he starts experimenting with children from 0 to 4 years of age, he will do real scientific research into the effects on language disadvantages and on learning outcomes, so that there are really objective concrete figures. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-9.u39	Sure. That is a commitment that you have asked me and I have just made. Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-9.u40	Well, then this motion can also go into the trash.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-9.u41	There was some discussion about the language level B2 for multilingual teaching staff. Pedagogical staff are self-educated at MBO level. Then how are you supposed to make them suddenly speak that language at HBO level? In order to develop multilingualism, it is of course important that language teaching is provided by people who speak the language well. I'm a happy follower of Louis from Gaal's Twitter account. I think that was just quoted. Indeed, for the young children, that may be a little too high. Of course, it is not expected that teaching staff who do not speak that second language will suddenly manage English, French or German at B2 level after further training. If an extracurricular care institution decides to offer multilingual care, it will attract a qualified multilingual professional or use a professional who happens to already speak that second language. The supervisor shall check the certificates of the multilingual bso-professionals. Research shows that native speakers are the best, according to the SP, with the level of Cambridge. What do we do with the permanent employees? Can you force them to speak that foreign language? Can you fire them if they don't speak Oxford or Cambridge English? If an out-of-school care facility decides to offer multilingual care, it must itself provide qualified professionals for that purpose. There is no point in obliging regular teaching staff to speak another language with children or to provide compulsory training. Because it is not an obligation, they can certainly not be dismissed if they do not speak that language. Mr Mulder also points out the risk of all young Van Gaaltjes in our primary schools. We will ensure that the professional qualification requirements and the supporting documents are properly included in the requirements for a vocational qualification which will shape that kind of foreign language education. As far as possible, we agree with the manual on early foreign language teaching, the vvto manual, which was developed by the European Platform for Vvto Engels in primary education. Then it is in line with the demands made on those who teach it in primary school. Then they asked: what about the inter-school care? Does that include a personal register? Secondary school care is the responsibility of the school and is governed by the Law on Primary Education. People must have a vog, but they are not covered by child care and therefore they are not covered by this register. I believe that I have dealt with the questions put by the Chamber in the first place.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-9.u42	I have one question, more to clarify the implementation of enforcement. Whatever interpretation it contains, it's all right with me, but it's confusing now. My question is about the moment of being inactive. It is literally stated in the Minister's documents: "At the time that the person concerned is asked to consult a new VOG, the person is normally put on inactive, or care is taken to ensure that the person is no longer in contact with the children received." Both ensure safety and quality for me. But can a larger childcare organisation in practice of enforcing rather than disabling an employee also choose to temporarily give such an employee another job at one location where there are no children and only the administration is conducted?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-9.u43	I would doubt that, but I think it is a complicated question, because there are a lot of variables in the case described. I already mentioned the example of the office. This is also covered by the obligation to register people in that register for good reasons. I do not see very well how that would work at another location of a childcare organisation where there are no children. Then I also wonder: what is this location for? That makes the case already difficult to judge. The basic rule must stand. The moment the signal comes that a new vog needs to be requested, someone goes into inactive. He or she himself has the opportunity to apply for a new vog. Then the consideration is whether or not a person may be registered.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-9.u44	It is also a complicated question, but I would like to give you a practical example of getting it for ourselves. There's a hit with a host family whose partner has an alert and needs to move. But such a partner of such a host parent can also have a relationship with the host parent agency, which merely and exclusively intercedes between parents and a host parent, in which that person does not come into contact with children. This seems to me to be a situation in which someone cannot be held inactive with the current wording. It is the senses of the minister himself that raise these questions. Someone is either put out of action here, or it is ensured that the person is no longer in contact with the children.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-9.u45	It's possible. If this is done, then so can we, but I do not think that we are making much more clear by talking about fictional persons who are partners of a host parent, also have a function at a host parent's office where a signal comes and which then get a different function at another location. But there is a reason why I made a commitment to jointly organise communications with the industry. It is precisely in the policy rules for the supervisory authority that we need to establish, in such a case, whether we have behaved properly, and always have a certain level of assessment, that we have to clarify as much as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-9.u46	That definition should then be discussed not only with the supervisor but also with the industry itself. Childcare organisations themselves, of course, have ideas about this. They know the contents very well. Is it true that, in addition to the supervisor, the Minister will also involve the industry itself?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-9.u47	I mentioned two routes that are independent of each other, but which I am going to relate to each other. You shouldn't ask the sector itself to assess what the supervisor should do. That's a key rule of supervision. You have to look with the sector to see if you can agree on what is meant by structural and how it is communicated. Then you have to define policy rules for how to deal with them together with the supervisor. That's what I plan to do. For the record, I would just like to say, with thanks to the diligent officials, that mediators for host parents themselves should also have a vog and should therefore also be on the register. They should therefore be put at a standstill under all circumstances, if such a signal were to come.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-9.u48	I assume that both the sector and the supervisor can influence what the definition will ultimately look like.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-9.u49	The definition looks like it is in the law, but for further clarification of what that definition means in practice, not Saint Nicholas, but the established lat relationship of the host parent and how you deal with the situations between them, I will enter into consultation with the industry and lay down the results as clearly as possible in policy rules that are again at the service of the supervisor. Of course, you also keep the usual remedies. So if you think that a dog is wrongly asked on the basis of the definition, then you can appeal against it, and even if a dog is refused, you can object and appeal against it again. So there are always possibilities at the individual level to get you right. What matters now is that I have also listened to the contribution of the Chamber to make it clear to the industry and to the host parent as much as possible. I want to do it this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-9.u50	In his first term, the Minister gave a clear answer to almost all the questions raised by my group and removed concerns. It is only with regard to the last point, the request for assistance in education and its operation for childcare, that I still need some clarification. When I read it like that, it actually says: if it is up-to-date, a dog applied to educational institution A also counts for childcare organisation B and for extracurricular institution B. However, the examples I have come across last year are about a teaching assistant at child care organisation A, in which the vog should not be used in childcare organisation B. The functioning of what the Minister says here should apply there, shouldn't it? It should also apply to the fact that if the vog is up-to-date, it can also be used in another organisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-9.u51	In addition to the answer to the question about the time limit for informing the Chamber about the elaboration of communication on the definition of what is structural and laying down policy rules for the supervisor, I will also address this question in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-9.u52	In order to avoid a second deadline for myself, I would just like to say that I have asked another question about the evaluation of the recommendations of the Gunning Committee. Is that evaluation coming up?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-9.u53	I just forgot to include that question in the suspension. I have three questions now. I cannot, of course, enter into the opinion of the Chamber on a possible second term, but I would like to offer to respond in writing to those questions before the vote. The question then arises when the Chamber is informed about the policy rules and the communication, Mr Heerma's question as to whether the topicality of an education system is different or not than that of childcare and Mr Mulder's question as to whether there will be an evaluation of all the recommendations contained in the Gunning Committee's report. If appropriate, I can answer those questions in writing before voting on the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-9.u54	I have just indicated in my interruption that all my other questions have already been adequately answered by the Minister. If my last question can be answered in writing, I no longer need a second deadline.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-9.u55	Let me see if other colleagues do need a second term. I see that only applies to the SP. I call Mrs Siderius.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-9.u56	Mr. Chairman. The SP welcomes the fact that this definition will in any case be further developed. We like that very much. We also welcome the fact that the Minister has committed a study on children aged 0 to 4 years on the effects on language disadvantages and learning outcomes in multilingual care. We still have one problem: the training of teaching staff is going to be offered as bilingual care. After all, we want these employees to have a qualification and speak good English. However, with the training as a teacher, you do not yet have the language level of English that we are legally going to require. If a host institution indicates that it wishes to offer multilingual care, then there must be some way for staff to train in it. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that it is proposed to make the minimum language requirement for a teacher in a multilingual extracurricular care level B2 (HBO level);]] [[Whereas the language requirement in the training of teaching staff is lower (MBO level);]] [[calls on the Government to send a plan of action to the Chamber so that all teaching staff can qualify for language level B2 and there is close monitoring of the language level and qualification of the teaching staff;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Siderius. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34195-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-9.u57	Mr. Chairman. I will inform the Chamber for the entry into force of the law next spring about the communication with the industry and the policy rules for supervisors. Evaluation of the recommendations of the Gunning Commission will follow in the second half of 2016. Unfortunately, I have to return to Mr Heerma's question in writing. I just want to make sure we're doing okay. It's a little too technical to answer here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-9.u58	The Minister says: spring 2016. I was also a little confused just now when he said: the employees have until the end of next year to register free of charge. Does this mean that the law will enter into force on 1 July 2016?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-9.u59	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-9.u60	Okay. Then I'm satisfied.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-9.u61	But I wanted to talk about your motion. Maybe that'll make the satisfaction go away again. In that motion, in part No. 10, the government is asked to draw up a plan of action allowing all teaching staff to qualify for language level B2. I have already said in the first term that it is not the intention of all teaching staff to do so, and that it is not an obligation at all. If a daycare center or bso would like that, it is up to that bso to train employees themselves or to hire employees who do so. It's not a job for the government. Moreover, the law will enter into force on 1 May and not on 1 July. That's one last kept message. So that is next year, but just two months earlier than Mrs Siderius said. But I'm deceiving the motion, because it really doesn't recognize what this is. A number of BSOs want to do this, often in conjunction with primary schools where this happens. They must also ensure that their teaching staff can do so at the right level. It is not a task of the government to draw up a plan of action allowing all pedagogical staff to qualify for language level B2.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-9.u62	Mrs Siderius, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-9.u63	I understand, therefore, from the Minister's words, that a reception institution which wishes to do so must bear the costs itself. Okay. Let's talk about the starting date of May 1st. The minister said he's coming up with the definition in spring 2016. I assume that we will have a real opportunity to discuss this with him if necessary. Because one spring is sometimes very broad with this government.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-9.u64	By this government! I think a spring is just as long every year, no matter who rules it. I said before the law came into force in spring. We're gonna do it nicely. If that leads to very shocking events, which I cannot imagine, then we can always look at how we deal with them. But it is not entirely the government's expectation that this issue will explode. The industry has not been excluded from the development of the law. He also works with the continuous screening, he also cooperates and he also thinks along. Nevertheless, you can of course come to questions about the definitions in the law. We're gonna explicate it. The industry itself has an interest in this. So I wouldn't know very well why it wouldn't be possible to do that in time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-9.u65	Furthermore, it is up to the Chamber, because the Chamber decides whether certain matters are being discussed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-9.u66	When reading the report and the Minister's answer to D66's question, some joy took hold of me. I understand now that the question I have asked is very technical and the Minister has to come back to it in writing, but that is what happens before the votes. That's what the Minister just indicated in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-9.u67	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-9.u68	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-9.u69	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-9.u70	Please.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-9.u71	We will vote on the motion and the bill tabled on Tuesday. The Minister has promised to send a letter to the Chamber before the vote. I would like to thank the Minister, the Members of Parliament, the officials and the people who have followed this debate.
