ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-16.u1	I would like to welcome all those present, in particular the Minister for Housing and National Service. First of all, I give the floor to Mr Monasch, the applicant for this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-16.u2	Mr. Chairman. It'll just happen to you in your old age. You sit in a service flat that you bought a year ago and you think you can spend the rest of your life in a beautiful setting. Yesterday I was visiting Park Boswijk in Doorn. There is such a service flat where the residents thought that they could enjoy their old age in peace and happiness. However, the fear has struck them and they now have stress and tension, because the corporation has other plans together with a project developer. You can choose as a resident: you still get €10,000 for your apartment, or you have to participate for €40,000 in refurbishing your apartment, where the apartment that is your own and that you have furnished yourself needs to be refurbished according to the requirements of the projectton wrapper. Say goodbye to the fitted kitchen you bought yourself and say goodbye to the furnishings you chose; others will decide what your apartment will look like. That cannot be done, and that cannot be done in the Netherlands, especially if a corporation is at stake. The residents haven't been idle. We have often discussed whether we should address individual cases or talk about policies in a broad sense. I will immediately come to the broader story, but the case needs to be sketched as well, because it is symbolic of many other service flats. Not for nothing has a detailed report been published by Platform31. As said before, the inhabitants have not been idle. They didn't sit in their seats. They moved in their old age and put forward their own proposal. That proposal is slightly less ambitious, with less large plazas and all kinds of mirrors and beads, but in line with the complex where they already live pleasantly. However, who paints our surprise: the vve is controlled, dominated by one party. One party's own plans, in this case the corporation, are printed through them. The many others, in number, are much more powerful against that one corporation. The plans of the corporation and the project developer do not focus on the current residents. The focus is on the real estate strategy of a corporation and a project developer, as we have unfortunately seen more often. The residents are skipped. That's the case. However, we are not here to discuss just one case, no matter how painful it may be. It is about how we can learn from what is happening there in The Hague, especially if it is in many more places. And it is found in many more places, as is evident from the report of Platform31 mentioned by me. I have three questions for the Minister. What does the Minister intend to do about the imbalance in power in the vves, especially if this can lead to the imposition of compulsory financial investment, with all the consequences for the rest of the vves? Does it fit in with the task and role of corporations to deal with their property in this way? There is another owner in the mentioned complex who owns twenty properties, which he rents for €600 per month. It is therefore possible to rent the properties at an affordable price. Why doesn't the corporation do that? Does the corporation once again outrun her role here? I would like to broaden that question, because I do not just want to talk about affordability. After all, it's about buying houses. Shouldn't a lot more of the service flats be looked at in the wide area? What position can they take in the policy of longer independent living? The minister has a support team for this, but the government's policy is to allow older people to live independently for longer. This applies to the current inhabitants, but also to the residents in the future. Here is a wonderful facility; why are the service flats not used for that? I would have liked to talk about the conversation that the chasing team had with the residents of this service flat and I hope other residents too, but that conversation has yet to take place. I expect from the chasing team that it will ensure broad representation in its invitation policy. At first there was an invitation policy that was based on many people from the corporation and one resident, but fortunately that was corrected in time. I assume that the chasing team, which will advise us through the Minister, will engage in a discussion in which all interests will be well represented.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-16.u3	Mr. Chairman. Everyone knows: if you don't have a roof over your head, you can't keep your head to yourself. A house and much more important: a home is a first need for life. Each phase of life has its own specific needs. In the final phase of your life, as in the first phase, you may need the most security, care and attention. The service flats we are talking about today are homes where older people live mostly. That's nice, too. Everyone wants to stay home as long and as long as possible, but that must be possible. The appropriate homes must be there and the elderly must be given the care and support they need, so that we avoid them succumbing to loneliness, psychiatric problems or neglect, which we unfortunately also see too much. It is therefore sad to have to read and note that over the backs of these highly aged people all kinds of parties are trying to enrich themselves. From the media, Mr Monasch referred to it as well. We have heard that there is a battle going on between all kinds of real estate entrepreneurs and older people. The fast jelles of this world want to buy up the flats for a shot, and then make as big a salad as possible. Older people and heirs in some cases stand against the wall with their backs. There's no other way to do this? That's what I'm asking the Minister. I also find the aggressive treatment unacceptable. The market does not seem to have any morals in that sense. What about the need and participation of residents? In the case of housing corporations, this is all the more true, especially where there are alternative plans of residents. While there is already a shortage of 84.000 suitable elderly homes in the Netherlands and the cabinet of people demands that they stay at home for longer, this minister saddles the corporations, which have to provide affordable social housing, with a tax of 1.7 billion euros. The rents are getting higher, also for the elderly. There's a big cut-down on nursing homes. If hundreds of service flats are left empty in the past, but also in the future, I find the Minister's response to this problem very lukewarm: contact us via some kind of chasing team. I would like a more active attitude from the Minister, focusing on the needs and wishes of present and future residents. Even though the houses may be empty now, we all know that in the future suitable homes will be needed more than ever, especially with all the developments I mentioned. Can the Minister not just let a chasing team talk, but is he prepared to present with all the parties involved municipalities, corporations, owners and the real estate guys who are apparently involved in it what the precise problem is now? How many service flats are creating problems in accordance with the specific example we are discussing here today? How many homes will be empty? In particular, does he want to make a plan with all those involved to turn these vacant houses into suitable, affordable, social housing, so that not the market wins, but the elderly?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-16.u4	I am curious to see where Mrs Karabulut wants to go in concrete terms. So you're gonna have to nationalize them. Is that the point?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-16.u5	I do not know what Mr Van der Linde is talking about. I am concerned that existing residents and owners should be treated in a decent manner and that alternatives should be sought. I note that this cabinet demands and wishes very much from the elderly, but that it then has an agenda to make homes suitable for the elderly and that this problem is also on the table. So, no, I'm not thinking primarily of nationalizing, but of course it might well be that new forms of ownership are emerging. Whether that's in the hands of the government, administrators, residents or corporations is verse two. However, concrete solutions must be sought and the commitment should be made if Mr Van der Linde's question is that this should indeed become suitable and affordable housing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-16.u6	Anyway, they're for sale now. That requirement is therefore met.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-16.u7	They are for sale, but they end up in the hands of all kinds of real estate guys, who make a lot of money out of it. The owners or heirs have checked and that is especially true for the elderly who are looking for a suitable home. It seems to me that the VVD doesn't like that either, does it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-16.u8	Mr. Chairman. We talk about service flats in response to a very specific case: Park Boswijk in Doorn. Older and older residents are uncertain about their home, their own safe place, and have been calling through the media and through us. The problem is complicated. If you bought an apartment or even a double apartment for a lot of money in the eighties or nineties and you then invested a lot in it, then you want to stay there undisturbed. The surroundings are beautiful. It's quiet. You've got everything under control. At the same time, the complex no longer meets the requirements you set in 2015. The apartments turned out to be unsellable. Survivors don't know how to escape service costs from €600 to €1,200 per month. This morning there were 30 apartments for sale in Park Boswijk on Funda, ranging from €8,000 to €180,000. Apparently there weren't that many fast jelles ready after all. Something must be done. System ceilings, fluorescent tubes and Trespa plates should probably be replaced. Apartments need to be modernised. The energy label E probably deserves to be upgraded. That's where the poisonous cocktail begins. A housing corporation feels responsible for its stock, comes up with concrete proposals and turns on a developer. However, we are dealing with residents who do not have any need to leave or sell their homes and with relatives who see their financial interests at stake. People have united in different groups. There are legitimate interests and a lack of trust on all sides. I've spoken to several parties. My first conclusion was that this is not a task for politics but for the courts. However, the parties do not want to do so. I understand that. You don't fight for years when you're in the 80s; then you just want to be clear. Good consultation is therefore the only recipe we can offer. The VVD welcomes the fact that the Minister is bringing in the search team led by Marnix Norder. Hopefully this team can bring some peace and mutual trust so that everyone can get back on the table. We understand that the first meeting is scheduled for June 22nd. From that point of view, we are actually too early with this debate. However, the problem is wider. These kinds of situations are going to occur in more places. The government cannot take responsibility for all private-law constructions that involve well-thinking people. We can't let that chasing team go like some kind of flying brigade or moving judge all over the country. However, in the context of longer independent living, we can engage in dialogue at local political level. Last year, with the support of all parties, including the VVD, we created a framework for housing cooperation. This private-law initiative will in practice be very similar to the construction in Park Boswijk. The same thing will happen to these cooperatives. After about forty years, large maintenance or renovation is necessary and residents do not always come out of it themselves. How do we prevent the government from becoming responsible to the left or right for buildings that are still being described as the top of its own initiative? Can the Minister respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-16.u9	Before my honourable colleague in the VVD hides behind the mantra that the government is not the solution for everything, I will be the last one to claim that I want to tell him that three parties are at stake here. That's the corporation, the developer and the residents. Does my colleague in the VVD agree with me that the residents are currently the weak parties to these relationships, both in terms of finance, in terms of information position, in terms of life expectations, in terms of professionalism and in terms of knowledge? How does Mr Van der Linde view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-16.u10	I have made it very clear that these people are in a very difficult situation. If you're 80 years old and you live in an apartment like this, you don't have any need to fight that battle. You feel put in a corner. I understand that; those people or their children are there. At the same time, I say that we do not have a prescription here either. We cannot say that the Dutch government will take care of that. If we give that impression here, we're gonna give people a false picture.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-16.u11	We're not just talking about two private parties. Corporations have a task and we have even strengthened this task with the Housing Act, which enters into force on 1 July. That task is to ensure affordable housing. The corporations also have an important role to play in the high demand for longer independent living. Because the corporations are part of the system for which this minister is primarily responsible, we do have a role and a task in this house in the transition to and problems in service flats, not only in Park Boswijk but in many service flats. This minister has a legal role to play.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-16.u12	Yes, Mr Monasch must be absolutely right about that. The only thing is that the corporation in question bought into Park Boswijk years ago. She's stuck with a file and wants or needs something with it. She has a responsibility for that. I understand it's a hugely complex puzzle, but she's working on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-16.u13	I share Mr Van der Linde's view that there are no ready-made answers, but does Mr Van der Linde see that more generally, apart from this particular case, empty service flats can and will become problematic in the future? Given the objectives of the cabinet to make more housing suitable for the elderly.............................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-16.u14	In the past year we have talked extensively about longer independent living. The key message I have left is that a lot of tailor-made work needs to be done locally. We cannot do that here from The Hague. Nor should we pretend that we can do this, because then we are on the wrong track.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-16.u15	Either you acknowledge that you are imposing all kinds of obligations on people, that savings are being made with the aim of keeping people on their own for longer and that you have to solve the shortage of homes together or that's what I'm hearing from the VVD right now. You're saying we've changed the law and people are just figuring it out for the rest of the time. That's not style, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-16.u16	I can't rhyme with the housing shortage in this case. If Mrs Karabulut brings €8,000 today, she can live in Park Boswijk tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-16.u17	Mr. Chairman. Older people live for longer on their own. That's what they often want. It's the government's job, too. This means that the necessary framework conditions must be properly regulated, something which often causes problems. That card 50PLUS regularly. As a result, there is a need for new initiatives and other forms of housing at the intersection of living and care, such as the existing service flats. According to the Evaluation Room, interest in service flats is increasing slightly. Unfortunately, around these, often outdated service flats, abuses have arisen. For example, real estate owners or housing corporations try to obtain a majority in the association of owners by buying up apartments, in many cases at a low price. It doesn't scare them back to pressure residents into doing this. Once we've managed to get a majority, they can do whatever they want with such a complex. In this way, purely for profit, the character of the complex can be changed. In some cases this has even led to demolition. The Minister for Housing and Rijksdienst stated in his response that professional parties may be expected to take extra care and take into account the situation of older, often vulnerable residents. However, this has not happened in many cases; that is precisely the problem. Isn't the Minister aware of that? This gives these residents a lot of stress, while they were looking for a quiet place to live comfortably. They often involve people with disabilities. They can also expect a service flat to live comfortably there. The Minister refers to all kinds of complaints and participation procedures and states that people can eventually go to court. He leaves the elderly, well considered, to their fate. That's gotta be different. The government must ensure that this alternative to a nursing home remains available. Does the Minister agree that, on the basis of its responsibility for the policy of living longer at home, the government should ensure better protection of the position of residents of service flats? Does the Minister agree with the 50PLUS group that most service flats should be maintained for their original destination? That is why I ask what the Minister thinks of the idea of registering service flats as a separate form of housing. What are the pros and cons of this, according to the Minister? Why isn't this happening now? Can the Minister explain whether this will lead to better protection within the zoning plan? Is the Minister prepared to talk to the Association of Dutch Municipalities to see what can be done in this area, since municipalities are about planning? I'd like to hear a detailed explanation. Or does the Minister also see other solutions? I come to my final point. There are often too high service costs that residents, or relatives who fail to sell the apartment, cannot pay. Rental prices also vary enormously, from €210 to as much as €1,900 per month. Those are rental prices excluding service costs. In addition, the apartments are sometimes in a questionable state of maintenance. Does the Minister see any possibility of putting a stop to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-16.u18	Mr. Chairman. The reason for this debate is a broadcast of the NOS Journal in which specific attention was paid to the situation in service flat Park Boswijk in Doorn. Unfortunately, the situation there is not on its own. It is a textbook example of a situation in which problems result in the value of apartments falling sharply. These problems can even undermine the existence of a long-term service flat. Due to high fixed service charges and decreasing demand for service flats, the value of these flats falls significantly and there is a lot of delayed maintenance. There is also the problem with heirs, which in some cases leads to distressing situations. Heirs are obliged to pay service costs of up to €1,000 per month while the value of the apartment has been completely evaporated by these costs. Clearly, something must be done about this. The CDA has advocated this before, including during the debate on longer independent living, which was held in November 2014. Firstly, it is very important that a good solution is found for the current residents of service flats. Older people shouldn't be staying in haunted houses. Residents of service flats deserve to be able to live carefree. The service flat must be a sufficient quality house for them and with sufficient amenities. In addition, the challenge is to provide sufficient housing to cope with the effects of an ageing population on the housing market. Indeed, it is expected that the number of over 75 will more than double between now and 2040. The growing demand for elderly homes therefore offers the opportunity to positively influence the problems surrounding service flats. As far as the CDA is concerned, this is an important task for local players: municipalities, housing corporations and healthcare institutions, among others. In the letter sent to the Minister on 30 April last. Sent to the Chamber, he explained the problems surrounding service flats. On 6 November 2014, the Minister indicated that staying at home for longer is a major social challenge. He indicated that it was therefore necessary to ensure that this great task was properly carried out at a national level. Good coordination between municipalities, housing corporations and healthcare institutions is important. The so-called Chasing Teams Langer Self-employed Living is therefore asked to raise awareness in the country. It should also be converted into local action. The Minister also indicated that the chasing team was explicitly asked to regularly reconnect which bottlenecks require adaptation of national regulations or local actions. I have a number of questions for the Minister. Does he want to inform us about the feedback he received from the hunting teams? Where have there been successes? What actions have been set out on the basis of this feedback? Have the hunting teams also had contact with the residents' organisation and housing corporation in the specific case of Park Boswijk? If so, what concrete results did this bring? I have just been informed that this contact has not yet taken place, so we have to wait for that. As mentioned earlier, the CDA Group believes that local government can play an important role close to the citizen in the event of problems surrounding service flats. Signals from older people's organisations suggest that much remains to be gained in this area. Is the Minister prepared to talk to the VNG about strengthening the approach?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-16.u19	I think this is a very clear argument. Still, I have a question. The municipality is not involved in the case of Park Boswijk. As long as no new zoning plan is requested, she probably doesn't know what's going on there either. In my speech, I am so interested in these corporations, but I like to involve the municipalities. What is the problem in this case? People first buy everyone out or out. Then we have achieved what we want: the elderly have been bullied away. Next one goes to the municipality with the question whether the zoning plan of the now empty complex can be changed. So the municipality is coming in way too late. How does Mr Ronnes think we can bring the congregations to the fore in this whole story, given their task and scope?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-16.u20	It hasn't been so long since I was alderman myself, among other things, of housing. Being an alderman, you regularly sit around with housing corporations and have moments when you can bring parties together for consultation. That's what the CDA means when it says that local government has the perfect opportunity to bring parties together. That is where I believe the key to success lies, to progress. In addition, I wonder if the pursuit teams have seen improvement points that we can pick up here in The Hague to help the local government and the local parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-16.u21	Thank you for your contribution. This brings to an end the first term of office. The Minister for Housing and National Service doesn't need a suspension, so I'm giving him the opportunity to respond immediately in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-16.u22	Mr. Chairman. Service flats are places where many elderly people live pleasantly and safely. At the same time, they are the subject of a lot of discussion and there are many problems. Due to the social changes that took place before this cabinet took office, demand for these types of housing has declined significantly. This results in an empty position, which means that the service costs generally have to be spread over a smaller group. That leads to higher costs. This creates a kind of spiral, which reduces the attraction and makes less money available to keep the homes and common spaces, a very important part, up-to-date. That will strengthen the process further. That is expressed at an abstract level how such a process is going, but for residents and their families it is, of course, incredibly close. It is very unpleasant to notice that the hallway is slowly empty because apartments are for sale but there are no buyers or because apartments are for rent but there are no tenants. It is very unpleasant to note that the provisions are decreasing, but the account is increasing. It is very unpleasant to see that the environment in which you hoped five, ten, fifteen years ago to have a very enjoyable evening of life together with a lot of like-minded people is completely changing character. That's very moving. The position of heirs is particularly important. They can be faced with an apartment that involves high costs that need coughing up, while it is a situation that they have not asked for. This problem led me and my ministry to take a number of actions. Mrs Karabulut rightly pointed out that I am a system operator. Mr Monasch knows me long enough to know that I cannot act in any individual case. The same goes for Doorn. But the theme of longer independent living and good elderly housing is not for nothing one of the four key issues of housing policy. It is not for nothing that we have taken a whole series of actions. The hunt team led by Mr Norder charts national issues and opportunities for older people's housing and other types of housing. Part of this is the study of Platform31, which also gives rise to this debate. The Langer Home report was co-written at the request of my ministry. It clearly has the intention not only to map the problems, but also to show what the way out can be for many residents, associations of owners and the complexes. With good design there are indeed opportunities for the service flats, but that generally requires a different way of working. In addition to the chasing team, Platform31 has started working. I also asked Platform31 to follow-up and start a number of experiments. I also promised the Chamber that there would be a legislative proposal to strengthen the position of owners' associations. This means that the members of associations of owners can agree on the level of the annual maintenance contribution and can also legally enforce it from each other. In this way you are not suddenly confronted with the fact that such a building is no longer of this time and that there is not enough money in the common pot. A number of actions have therefore been launched to ensure that this process, which remains complicated, is accompanied as much as possible from a national level and that we can learn lessons. As a minister, it is impossible for me to assess exactly what the demand for elderly housing in Doorn is, and what exactly are the right interventions. That is also why I asked the Chasing Team Langer Self-Employed Living to go to Doorn, to bring the parties to the table and to see if there can be a mediation role played there. The lessons that are drawn from this can be used here and then shared. Hopefully, in similar situations, we will be able to make such a process more flexible. That conversation is about to take place and I will, of course, inform the Chamber about the results. I cannot guarantee that it will be very soon after 22 June, but I will keep my finger on the wrist. I'm going a little deeper into the situation in Doorn as I understand it's in place. I do so because she illustrates some of the problems very strongly. A number of questions have also been asked about this. I understand that the housing corporation chose to buy part of the complex a few years ago. She did so partly on the basis of her objective of providing good housing for the elderly. I agree with that objective. However, 70% of her share is now empty. This illustrates once again that there is a conceptual demand for older people's housing, but that this does not lead to large-scale rentals everywhere, or specifically here in Doorn. Mr Van der Linde mentioned some figures on the part that is not in the hands of the housing corporation. This also shows that the demand for housing in this State is very limited. Understandably, the housing corporation and residents say about this situation: something must be done. Next it is the task to get out of there in a construction with an association of owners. We can, in part, speed this up with legislation, but it is ultimately also human work. The statutes are between that legislation and that human work. Legislation on owners' associations provides a framework, but the statutes generally indicate exactly how voting relationships should lie. I understand that this kind of radical decision in Doorn requires a two-thirds majority. This is not unusual in statutes of owners' associations. The housing corporation owns a third, so she won't be able to block decisions on her own. However, this means that agreement must be reached between at least a large part of the other owners. This kind of complex decision-making is, of course, specific to an association of owners. Now it is also not the case that all associations of owners do not work anywhere in the country, but it is very difficult to avoid problems at national level with an individual association of owners. That is why I can offer the role of the chasing team, but cannot say in such an individual case: we offer a ready-made solution for this. I was very much in agreement with Mr Ronnes's approach from his experience as an alderman. I recognize them. I've never taken it to alderman, but I was a city councilman. In a city council and a college of mayor and aldermen, housing for the elderly is also an important topic of discussion. Doorn is now, I think, the municipality of Utrechtse Heuvelrug. Doorn is really so clear that an alderman rides his bike every now and then and sees what's going on. If he or she doesn't do it himself, the city councilmen will. This will be a subject of debate. Preferably, parties are brought around the table and it is said: how do we solve this? No one would benefit from such a situation. In addition, we have agreed in the new Housing Act that municipalities will make residential visions and then record them in concrete plans with housing corporations. We have also agreed that housing for older people is a very concrete part of this. If this was not already on the agenda in Utrechtse Heuvelrug, it will inevitably come on the agenda due to the law that will enter into force on 1 July. And that alderman is indeed talking to the housing corporations about elderly housing in general and about the future of Park Boswijk and the role of housing corporation in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-16.u23	A few more specific questions have been asked. Mr Monasch asked how we deal legally with the distorted power relations in the association of owners, as he called it. I have already said that, in general, the statutes are the most decisive, because they indicate whether a simple majority or a qualified majority is necessary for major decisions. Mr Monasch has already drawn attention to this issue. At that time, I promised the Chamber that I would examine how this would work in practice nationwide. This is an example, but the question is whether there is any reason to tighten up legislation. I expect to be able to send that inquiry to the Chamber this autumn. Mr Monasch also asked if Park Boswijk fits into the role of the corporation. Yeah, at first sight, sure. Older people's housing is one of the core tasks, within the income limits we have agreed on. I have already stated in my letter that all parties in an association of owners can be expected reasonableness and care towards each other, but that this certainly applies to a professional party with a social objective, such as a corporation. Mr Monasch also asked how I see the role of service flats within the policy of longer independent living. It is not that we have a national policy or objective for service flats. I began my speech with the progress of the thriving history and the declining interest, which I am sure you will all recognize. It shows that there is a real need for change. I want to help with this change, through the research of Platform31 and the experiments that we want to follow. It will really depend on local demand, but also on local entrepreneurship as to what this role of the service flats will look like in the future. Mrs Karabulut asked how the role of residents has been arranged in cases like this. Again, this is an association of owners. In doing so, the statutes are leading over the necessary majority. I have already indicated the areas in which I will come up with legislation. At Mrs Karabulut's question how I see my own role, I indicated that I cannot deal with the specific Doorn case myself. I did ask the chasing team to dive in here and to put it back to me and therefore to the Chamber when playing things here that give rise to national regulations.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-16.u24	Does this mean that the Minister will back us up on how the problem of vacant flats is expected to develop and where possible have opportunities or concrete opportunities to transform them into suitable, affordable old people's housing?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-16.u25	Platform31's report on longer independent living outlines these opportunities. I have promised earlier that I will inform the Chamber annually, together with my colleague Mr Van Rijn, about the progress of the recruitment team and its experience. If that leads to adjustments, I will, of course, share that with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-16.u26	It is something else to outline those opportunities rather than to encourage them to be grasped. This could be done, for example, by intervention or by amending laws and regulations, as the Minister says, but in some cases this may not be necessary. I am looking for the Minister's commitment that he will do his utmost to ensure, in consultation with all the parties concerned, that no homes are unnecessarily empty. If there are opportunities to transform service flats into old-age housing, they should also be used.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-16.u27	I take Mrs Karabulut's question in such a way that I will not intervene in local situations simply because I cannot properly judge it from The Hague. That is why Chamberwide has been said that this is a municipal responsibility. Last week I sat at the table with Marnix Norder and the chasing team to discuss progress, but also with the VNG, the dome of nursing homes ActiZ and Aedes on behalf of the housing corporations. They tell me their wishes and their bottlenecks. I can then make sure that we change things if this is necessary. Just two hours ago, I promised Mr Ronnes that I would look again at how the appropriate allocation would work out and whether it would need to be adapted, precisely for the purpose of living care. I therefore feel very responsible for this, without being able to intervene in Doorn or other individual cases. We have introduced the possibility of a housing cooperative in the new Housing Act. Against this background, Mr Van der Linde has asked how we can avoid problems in this area in the future. If a residential cooperative relates to an apartment complex with split property, the apartment right is mandatory. There must be an association of owners. I have already indicated that I want to tighten it up on parts for owners' associations rather than an association of owners within a housing cooperative. A housing cooperative may also cover land-based housing. If this residential co-operation relates to apartments, it will generally be about co-operation with regard to maintenance. That figure remains possible. In both cases we are dealing with a property in bondage. In this respect, the housing cooperative is very similar to the association of owners, because there too inevitable consultation, reasonableness and good agreements are desirable. The statutes shall specify which majority is required for which decision. It should also be laid down that sufficient funds are to be reserved. This can be achieved not only by being happy and expectant at the opening, but also by offering housing in 20 or 30 years' time and by offering an organisation that will not be a burden to the residents or heirs. Again, not all owners' associations are in serious trouble. The creation of a housing cooperative is therefore possible, but it is complicated. In setting up a housing cooperative, it is fair to point out to people that they still have to be able to work together after 20 years. Mr Ronnes has asked when exactly I will send the following report from the chasing team to the Chamber. That will happen before the recess. Mr Krol has asked whether I think there should be additional regulation for the protection of people in service flats. I said that there should be additional regulations for an association of owners. That extra regulation is on the side of the Chamber. Many service flats operate along the route of an association of owners. This also seems to me to be the logical point of reference for legislation. Mr Krol also asked whether we should register service flats as separate housing. In my view, this will lead to great complexity, because in that case we will have to define legally what this means. That does not seem to me to add much. We already have existing legal criteria for social housing and free sector rentals. We also have legal criteria for calculating additional rent related to care facilities. I believe that we have enough criteria to classify housing into different categories. Mr Krol and Mr Ronnes have asked me to look together with the VNG at how we can tackle this problem. I will answer that question immediately with yes, because I will. I just indicated that last week I sat around the table with the VNG and other parties on this issue. Mr Krol has asked whether too high rents or service costs can be reduced. When it comes to rents, there's the law. The rents for social housing are strictly regulated. As far as the additional allowance for care is concerned, I have already promised to look at it again this afternoon in the context of appropriate allocation. The service costs are typically something that is on the vve. He'll make a deal about it. Only, it runs counter to the mechanism that charges on an ever smaller group of owners. For this, the solution is to either cut costs or make the relevant complex more attractive; then you will find the different routes that Platform31 outlines for this. Doing nothing is not a solution in such a situation. Mr. Chairman. I hope I have answered the questions in the first place.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-16.u28	Thank you. I note that there is a need for a second term among Members. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Monasch.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-16.u29	Mr. Chairman. How much need and demand come together in the case of Park Boswijk is of course the question. I rather think it's some kind of death home construction. If you see a complex becoming an army and you're expected to make big financial investments, you're looking forward to investing in it. If the corporation does not offer the properties to be rented out, nothing will happen. It is rather impregnant that another landlord owns twenty properties and that all twenty are rented. So it's a little less simple than just Google Funda for a little while. There is just a conscious strategy going on here to create vacancy so that the plans of that corporation and project developer can continue and the existing residents become more and more afflicted. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that several corporations throughout the country own both separate service flats and service flat complexes;]] [[Whereas this property can play an important role in carrying out the core business of corporations, offering affordable rentals, or using this property for the wider objective of allowing older people to live independently for longer in both the rental and purchase sectors;]] [[calls on the government to consult with these corporations and to agree on how this property can be used for these purposes.]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Monasch. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32847-172]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-16.u30	My second motion concerns vve's in the future. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that owner-residents in service flats may experience significant financial consequences when one or a few owners or managers have a majority of votes in the vve and can thus unilaterally enforce far-reaching plans on the other residents in relation to the common vve property;]] [[Whereas a legislative proposal is under development which improves the functioning of VVEs;]] [[calls on the government to introduce into the regulations protection in vves against far-reaching financial proposals and mandatory interventions in and around a complex by one or a few members of the vves at the expense of the other members of the vves,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Monasch. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32847-173]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-16.u31	I'm trying to figure out the last motion. Does Mr Monasch say that the vve must make a compulsory reservation in order to allow renovation, or is it not being renovated? Where does that lead?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-16.u32	It seems very sensible to me that a vve should ask its members to make a compulsory contribution in terms of service costs and maintenance. However, it can't be that in the case of service flats or other apartment complexes, a landlord who is out there or who might be buying up property, during the quiet possession and enjoyment of the other person will say: we have quite different plans with this complex, take it or leave it, you can get €10,000 or you will be obliged to invest €40,000. That kind of intervention can take place. We see it in the telecom industry, where a Mexican suddenly wants to make a hostile takeover. Actually, this is also some kind of hostile takeover. It's good to throw up those kinds of constructions. This is about the importance of individuals. If one or two parties suddenly want to seize power or force others to intervene that they cannot actually pay, then we must prevent it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-16.u33	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for the commitment to come forward with the report at least before the recess. The request is to pay particular attention to the problem of service flats and the opportunities they can offer in the transition process. The Minister made a firm commitment to discuss this during his consultations with the UNG. However, it seems to the CDA Group that it is right to confirm this in the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that local authorities can play an important role in the problem of service flats;]] [[noting that the service flats can play an important role in the transition of the care real estate;]] [[calls on the government, in consultation with the VNG, to ensure that service flats are explicitly addressed in the municipal housing visions and performance agreements to be made between municipalities and corporations,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Ronnes. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32847-174]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-16.u34	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for replying. I have two small questions. It is not quite clear to me whether every older person is mature enough to be able to give the right input to the association of owners. Then what does the minister recommend to the older man? Doesn't the Minister agree with me that not everyone can withstand the pressure of corporations or property owners? I had a motion ready to call for more consultation with the Association of Dutch Municipalities, but the Minister has convinced me that it is not necessary and that he is on top of it. We like to hear what the results are. I have one motion left because he hasn't convinced me about the registration of the service flats. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, in view of the problem of service flats, better protection of the position of residents of service flats is highly desirable;]] [[whereas service flats are not registered as separate housing and therefore the exact size of the number of service flats is not known;]] [[Whereas for better protection, for example within a zoning plan, separate registration as a form of housing is desirable;]] [[requests the government to register service flats as separate housing,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32847-175]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-16.u35	Mr. Chairman. Mr Monasch has tabled two motions. In the first motion, in part No. 172, the Government is invited to consult with these corporations and to agree on how this property can be used for these purposes. In addition, "these corporations" are corporations that own both separate service flats and service flat complexes. It is in the structure we have agreed on in the Housing Act, where municipalities are leading in assessing the local need for housing and also specific housing for the elderly, not logical if the minister then starts talking to individual corporations. What makes sense is that the minister speaks to the dome of corporations, so to Aedes. If, therefore, Mr Monasch would like to amend the motion so that the government is asked to consult with Aedes, then I will leave it to the Chamber, but in this form I must discourage the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-16.u36	That is a legitimate point of the Minister, and that should also be said, so I will amend the motion accordingly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-16.u37	In the second motion by Mr Monasch, on item No. 173, the Government is requested to include in the regulations on vve's protection against far-reaching financial proposals and compulsory intervention in and around a complex by one or a few members of the vve at the expense of the other members of the vve, and the Chamber shall proceed to the order of the day. As a result of an earlier debate with Mr Monasch, I indicated that I would like to have a look at the problem areas at the moment. Of course, I do that with the aim of doing so if there are bottlenecks there that lend themselves to a legal solution, also along that route. I do not have that picture yet, so I consider the motion to support policy, but Mr Monasch must be able to live with the fact that it is only this autumn that I will be able to assess the substantive consequences of this. Mr Ronnes asked the government in his motion for a resolution on item No. 174, in consultation with the VNG to ensure that service flats receive more emphasis in municipal housing visions. I'd be happy to, so this motion is policy support. Mr Krol asked me if every older person is mature enough to withstand external pressure. When I answer it, I always have to remember that my 82-year-old mother can look now, too, who is mighty. This is actually a question that cannot be answered properly. Mr Krol will not want us to talk to each other about the fact that older people are not mature and are not resistant to pressure. I can see this in Mr Krol's reaction. I have already indicated that a party such as a housing corporation can be expected to take extra care in this kind of process, also because if people are able to withstand pressure at a later age and can stand up well for themselves, they will not simply have the inventory packed and moved out of their homes out of discontent. This therefore requires extra care. That is why I have the investigations carried out and I have the legislation amended. Mr Krol has also tabled a motion on item No. 175, in which the government is requested to register service flats as separate housing. I don't feel anything like that, because that means extra government action. I am very fond of my officials, but it is not the case that I want to increase the number every time, because I do not see any added value in this. We keep the tenant's protection in social housing where necessary. For the possible calculation of extra rent and in the context of the real care provision in the AWBZ or the Wmo we also apply criteria, but to get back on top of that whether or not something is a service flat, I actually find administrative burdens, so I have to advise against this motion. Mr President, this is the answer to the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-16.u38	Thank you. Then we have come to the end of this debate. We will vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday. I thank the Minister and his officials and the people in the public gallery.
