ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-9.u1	I give the floor to the Secretary of State for Infrastructure and the Environment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-9.u2	Mr. Chairman. I am here very rarely; despite my broad portfolio I do not regularly enter the First Chamber. So it is my honor and pleasure to be here again. Today we are talking about the legislative proposal to implement the Recast Directive, which we call the Recast Directive in the department and in the popular sense the Recast. This Directive further elaborates and strengthens the rules on market forces on rail. The House has a great deal of interest in this matter. I'm happy about that. Mr Kuiper already referred to the investigation into privatisation and independence with the title 'Connecting?'. I think this investigation is still fresh in memory. Although market forces on the railways have often been debated, I am aware that I have never done so here. There has been no mention of it in this Chamber recently. The treatment of the implementation of the Recast is a good reason to talk about it. Before I go into the content of the legislative proposal, I would first like to outline a general picture of market forces in the Netherlands and give my vision. I'm gonna go into about six points. Where are we now with the market organization? How does this relate to long-term rail policy? How does the track record relate to the Disconnected Report? From the First Chamber? How does the Recast Directive fit into all of this? I also refer to the usage fee on which a number of spokesmen have asked a question. I would like to conclude with the Fourth Track package, because it is very topical. I had another conversation with the Commissioner last Thursday. I would like to take this Chamber into account, because it has explicitly asked whether we will have any room for manoeuvre. With a future view of that question, I'm gonna close. I don't think I need to tell this Chamber anything about where we came from with the trail. That has already been discussed, also in the report Disconnected? So I'm moving on fast. However, at the end of the 1980s and in the 1990s, thinking of liberalisation and privatisation as a sign of a modern government had a direct impact on the current market organization. Times when the market organisation was looked at more critically have also had an impact on this dossier. Both currents are often present at the same time. One group calls for liberalisation and the other for more public intervention and regulation. A year and a half ago I had a debate in the House of Representatives on the organization. There were two streams on display. To me, to this day, it is a continuous optimization between these extremes. I would like to mention three quotes from this Chamber's report on privatisation, which I have just quoted, with the first one: 'However, privatisations and autonomy soon appear to raise new administrative questions. Links between government and privatised services are becoming more looser, while new connections between services and citizens are emerging." The report also expresses the following: "It is not always clear what role Parliament plays in situations where control is given over. However, both chambers want to continue to steer developments, with the result that decisions sometimes take a erratic course." And: "Characteristic of the decision-making process is that at every subsequent stage, Parliament is making corrections to the "uncomplete" decision-making process in an earlier stage." During the time I have been working on this dossier, I come across all these characteristics and some of the conclusions and observations from the Chamber report. Where are we now with the market organization? The main thrust of the market organisation on the railways is as follows: There is one railway infrastructure provider in the Netherlands, ProRail. The shares of this infrastructure manager are held by the State. My ministry fulfills the shareholdership. ProRail is at the same time controlled by my ministry through the management concession. There is one carrier on the main rail network: the Dutch Railways. The shares are invested with the State and with the Ministry of Finance as shareholder. The NS is controlled by my ministry through the transport concession for the main rail network and the HSL. For the period 2015-2025, the transport concession was awarded directly to the NS and the management concession to ProRail. Local authorities are responsible for regional rail transport through regional concessions. These concessions are awarded in competition. I have expressed my view on the railways and the market organisation in the Long Term Track Agenda. Moreover, I am talking to the local authorities to see if we can better coordinate some of the elements of the concessions, for example for cooperation. You may ask yourself whether you should not align certain forms of reporting. If, for example, I am asked what is happening in the Netherlands with regard to social security on the track, I ask the NS. But that question is, of course, at least as relevant to the local authorities. So I am talking to the local authorities to see if we can standardise articles to ensure that we are unambiguous. The main line of my vision in the 2014 Long Term Track Agenda is that we need to move towards a "network Netherlands." This must be a network in which the interests of all the different parties are subservient to those of travellers and shippers. This means that there must be a good mix of connections throughout public transport. It is no longer traveling from station to station: people travel door to door. With the Long Term Track Agenda, the government provides clarity on the design of the rail sector. In this way, the parties can focus on a better journey for the traveller. The Dutch Railways are carriers on the main rail network and should focus on that transport. The main rail network remains intact until the end of the new NS concession on 1 January 2025, with the exception of the two Limburg lines that have since been tendered by the province. As I said, the regional carriers operate the regional railway lines. Several passenger transport operators may operate on international connections. There is no change in the market organisation in the long term Track Agenda. This was deliberately chosen on the basis of different analyses. We've actually had all the possibilities analyzed. We have more or less released a strength-weakness analysis on it and looked at what could be an advantage and a disadvantage of that choice. Eventually, we decided to leave it the way it is. I'm gonna go into that a little bit more deeply. Otherwise, we would end up in a structural discussion that would cause a great deal of unrest to the staff. In whatever way it would happen, it would mean for ProRail that the organization should be split up. I can explain that briefly. The capacity allocation of ProRail should be independent. If ProRail and the NS were to be brought back together, the capacity allocation would not remain there; it should be removed. At the moment we make another movement and ProRail, for example, would be put in the Ministry, where the inspection has now been put in place, the question is how independence towards the inspection is secured. We did a great deal of that analysis then, and we said: we leave it as it is, but we think that a number of looming errors need to be removed. That's what we're doing right now. This is not always flexible, but it is very important that we ensure that the organisations work together optimally, that we prepare them for the future, including the Fourth Railway Package, and that we ensure that other passenger transport operators, freighters and public authorities are involved in the cooperation. Boring the cooperation and the question of how ProRail and the NS should go into the future, I have laid down in the management and transport concession. We have said that the objectives of these two concessions, unlike the old concessions, can only be similar. ProRail cannot pursue other goals than the Dutch Railways. Those targets must be similar. The traveller, the shipper, the freighter must stand on one. In the concessions, therefore, we have designed as many incentives as possible in the same way. Mr Flierman asked about the direction. This cooperation is in line with the fact that the NS and ProRail are controlled by the same ruler.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-9.u3	Thank you to the Secretary of State for the clear statement on where she stands. I'm going back a bit to the concession to the NS until 2025. The Secretary of State says that until then we will have this order with the NS as the rider on the main grid. Now, of course, the point is that in this directive and later in the Fourth Railway Package too, I know that the Secretary of State is going to talk about this later. The pressure is to fully open the track and also allow competition on our main grid. In my view, that would have disastrous consequences. If you're going to cut up that main grid into pieces, from the thought of that Fourth Track package of multiple riders, it's all gonna cause connection problems and even more communication problems. So we really shouldn't do that in the Netherlands. The Secretary of State says it'll stay that way until 2025. But how does it deal with this pressure from Europe, which is nevertheless consistent in its approach to further liberalisation?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-9.u4	Mr Kuiper has tempted me to go into the Fourth Railway Package already. He's asking me the key question. The Recast Directive is a closed whole. The influence is going to come with the Fourth Track Package. Instead of sketching the future, I shall do so right now, because that is best in line with the question. The implementation of this directive is independent of the Fourth Railway Package. Mr Kuiper, you asked whether the adoption of the legislative proposal still leaves room for the Netherlands to prepare for the Fourth Spoor Package. The answer to that is yes. The Recast Directive does not contain any new requirements in terms of rail organisation compared to what is already covered by the Railway Act. The European Commission aims to fully open market forces. This is not covered by this directive, but the Fourth Railway Package is about opening up the rail market. The implementation of this Recast Directive does not hinder the Dutch commitment in the negotiations on the Fourth Railway Package. As you know, the Netherlands is not in favour of further opening up the national rail market. The negotiations are really in full swing as we speak, because we are busy trying to see if we can talk about a proposal in the Transport Council at European level on 8 October. I have been very active in this, because it was important to me that it was not the means of tendering that were chosen as an objective, but that the quality of the rail network should be the goal for the Netherlands and for the whole of Europe. I went out with two yellow cards under my arm, one of which was handed out by you, particularly because of subsidiarity. The Dutch commitment is that we want to make our own choices. So we want to be able to choose between tendering and direct award. That is the case now in the Netherlands, because the regional lines are being tendered, the main rail network has been awarded directly, and I would like to stress that transport on the main rail network should remain possible. In doing so, it is based on benefits in the form of concessions. It now seems that we have the support of other countries. That's not a race yet; we're really in the last few days to see if we can get that proposal done. This would mean that, if you take quality and the traveller as the starting point, direct award should remain possible, but it should be checked whether that actually produces the quality that you would suspect from a direct award. For example, I said to France: imagine that Paris will be divided into six pieces and then tendered. They hadn't thought about it. When I look at the outskirts of town and think that we should cut it up, I don't know how you look at it, then I start to get the goosebumps, because then the question is whether you can still offer that quality.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-9.u5	I look at it just as much as you do, Madam Secretary of State, because it is indeed interesting and important in cutting up the pressure on the Dutch version of the comparison with Paris. That would indeed lead to all kinds of problems here, I agree with you. So you say that if we vote today or next week in favour of this bill, it will not stand in your way if you have to negotiate under the Fourth Railway Package? I would, of course, like to believe you, but I am only hearing this from you now, when this legislative amendment and the directive are, of course, completely breathed from the paradigm of the open market on the European track. So again, how is it that you are not standing in the way of the negotiations on the Fourth Railway Package?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-9.u6	I have already been tempted by Mr Kuiper to bring forward the end. I'll be right back to the Recast Directive. I am now going through my speech in a different order. If you will allow me to conclude my speech in part, I think I will come to his answer. If that's not the case, I'd like to hear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-9.u7	I would like to go back to the last part of the Secretary of State's speech on the internal organisation of the management of the rail network. She said in so many words that it is very good that the management concession for ProRail and the transport concession for the NS are dealt with at the same ministry and by the same govern ment because the interests coincide. This is perhaps the case as far as passenger transport on the main network is concerned, but we are also dealing at least with international transport, freight transport and regional transport, all of which are of great importance to this country. ProRail also has a responsibility, but that responsibility of ProRail is not necessarily in line with the interests of the NS. My question focused precisely on those aspects of transport and on the modalities that transport providers can also use independently and carefully when it comes to responsibility for the various concessions. Is it wise that they should be with one ruler? So I would like to hear from the Secretary of State how she deals with those potentially conflicting interests.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-9.u8	I do not see any conflicting interests in that. For example, when it comes to the allocation of capacity, we have tried to make a huge impact on freight transport. The freight was arranged via Keyrail. We have lifted that and put it in ProRail to make better considerations. In addition, we have looked at how freight transport is now organised. You must imagine that slots were being spent on freight transport but not followed, because that freighter suddenly had some transport at another time, so in the middle of the day there were train roads empty. We have put this in ProRail in order to be able to switch much better between passenger transport and freight transport, because the goal is not only to get better on rail but also more. For more, you need a balanced distribution when assigning those train paths. Regional carriers must also be treated non-discriminatoryly. The capacity allocation at ProRail should be independent. How that capacity is distributed and how it is handled in the field must be equal. This is guaranteed, but the cooperation between the NS and ProRail must also be optimised in the interests of the traveller. Now, as I said, the concessions were not similar. They're heading for the same targets. ProRail and the NS simply need to work much closer together on the main rail network and ensure that cooperation also benefits the traveller. The capacity distribution in which goods and passengers meet shall be set out in a timetable each year. Anyone can submit their train paths. What matters to me is that there is also room for the dedicated Betuweline to fill in slots at the last minute. This capacity allocation takes place at ProRail. The moment I can manage both organizations through the concessions, I can also bring them together.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-9.u9	Let's talk about capacity allocation. The Secretary of State previously stated that the organisational component that does this should be able to operate independently and that it should not be incorporated within the Ministry. What about the Chinese walls, the separation between the part of ProRail that divides the capacity and the rest? If I understand the Secretary of State correctly, she says that the interests are in synchronised with maintenance and so on and that she wants to steer them, but that she should stay away from the distribution of capacity, quite frankly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-9.u10	Capacity allocation shall be independent. There's also traffic control. It's supposed to make sure it all goes well. At the moment when there are problems, traffic management has to solve them. There has been a kind of crisis center for several years where all freighters, ProRail and the NS are together when something happens, for example in a collision with a person. Then there can also be equal switching. I would also like to draw attention to maintenance and investment. I'm steering those cases in the context of my grant-giving role. I also want to make these issues work better, because it has occurred that ProRail and the NS had conflicting interests in this regard. For example, the NS wanted to drive a bit faster and have a double track for that, while ProRail indicated that this cost money and wondered if that one minute was worth it. In order to stay out of these discussions, I've committed myself to an investment committee. That committee will be set up in the very near future, because it has now been set up. When it comes to large investments, in fact subsidies for large investments, the independent committee is going to look at whether the investment decision was properly made. An analysis is taking place so that, before I agree with the investment, a group of experts has looked at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-9.u11	Very briefly, Mr Flierman, because I would like to give the Secretary of State the opportunity to make her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-9.u12	I'll be very brief. I had also asked the Secretary of State about the role of the shareholder. Maybe she'll come back to that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-9.u13	The gentlemen tempted me to keep my speech in a slightly different order, but I will come back to it all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-9.u14	Also briefly, because this is the point. We are talking about the split between ProRail and the NS. In the 1990s, we took a very firm step in this direction, which other countries did not take. Integration has remained stronger there. I was referring to the fact that this choice was not made in Germany and France. The Secretary of State is now taking steps to achieve integration. ProRail and the NS should work together mainly on long-term rail infrastructure investments. But should we not also learn that the split has gone too fast? In fact, the Secretary of State is again protecting the current construction, but then we have to manage the gap between ProRail and the NS constantly close, while there is still a deep looming error. A different order, however, is certainly possible. Other countries protect them, too. Germany does that, too. This is also the way it is reflected in the directive. I quoted that. You can have two departments within one company. I would like the Secretary of State to respond to this in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-9.u15	The analysis of the different scenarios also looked at the scenario of a holding company with underneath ProRail and the NS. The question is, however, what a holding model adds if you want to enforce that cooperation, for example through the concessions. I will finish my speech on the Fourth Railway Package in that context, because another element of the Fourth Railway Package concerns the question of whether the existing possibility of holding structure, management and rail transport in a holding company remains. The key point in the Fourth Railway Package remains that independence between management, such as capacity sharing, and transport must remain guaranteed. The holding structure is mainly an item for Germany and France. The negotiations are still in full swing. The European Commission stands for a Chinese wall between the parts of the companies, but I am a little less rigid in that discussion than France and Germany. I know that the debate between these two countries and the European Commission is currently taking place.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-9.u16	Very briefly now, Mr Kuiper.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-9.u17	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of State asks what you win with it. You win by having one captain on the ship. That's what you win with it. By definition, these are long-term projects. What kind of trains do you have in 20 years? What kind of tracks do you need for that in 20 years? How's that gonna work? That calls for one captain on the ship. That's what you win with it. I believe that Germany will continue to defend the need to remain a holding company there. That Chinese wall probably won't get there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-9.u18	I'm afraid I can't see into the future. I don't know how that's gonna work out in the package. Let me give you an example. A new train protection system must be installed. It's called ERTMS. That's the abbreviation of a very long term concept. This means that we need to organise both jobs and trains in order to ensure that the new security system will be in place soon throughout Europe. This should be done in close cooperation between the NS and ProRail. That is why we have set up a specific project organisation for this purpose. That project will run for a long time, at least until 2030. We've looked at where cooperation is needed. In this context, we follow the programme Better and More. First, it needs to be better tracked, because there are too many disturbances that take too long. We have to deal with that. After that, we want more to drive. That's what we need that security system for. One of the side effects I call it a side kick of the security system is that there can be shorter drives on each other, because software is used to steer. That means the trains can run closer together. Do you need a holding company with two companies for that? We have said: no, we are creating an environment for the project. This was also a major project in the Lower House. We ensure that we manage things in this way, so that we know that there is optimal cooperation with the parties that are needed. We can also connect with Europe. Would it be different with a holding company? No, because even then we would have opted for a project organisation. The analysis carried out a year and a half ago was very thorough. Bringing the NS and ProRail into a holding company has no added value if we can direct both organisations through a project organisation and management concessions. In particular, the management concession and the transport concession are based on a completely different set-up, with common objectives. That's totally different than before. I'm defending this because I think it's been a good choice. That's how I got the Fourth Track package. Mrs Meijer asks how I have taken account of the results of the examination of the Upper House. In drawing up the Long Term Track Agenda and the analysis of how we want to organise the organisation, the report of this Chamber has served as input. That report has therefore been taken into account. Then the control on ProRail. Questions have been asked about that. With the Long Term Track Agenda, I also used a different direction on ProRail. ProRail should become the public implementation organisation of the railway. To do that, I work along three lines. The first relates to shareholdership. As the owner of the property relationship, I am at a distance, while the supervisory board is responsible for steering the organisation to improve its quality, so that it is able to carry out its social task. That is why, in the appointment of new Commissioners and subsequently in the appointment of the new directors, I have focused on a greater affinity with the public tasks and the social role of ProRail. I have already gone into the management concession in detail. In this respect, I will send to ProRail's public service, such as reliability and availability of the rail system. In addition, the new ProRail concession requires greater transparency. Things that don't go well should be reported earlier. I have already said a few words about the granting of subsidies. In this respect, I make demands on the quality and implementation of projects and agree on the reporting obligations. So I use external audits more often, from gate reviews, so we can see if we're doing the right thing. Because things are now being put into motion, things are also coming out. That is annoying, but that is the only way to put things in order. I think it is very good that a culture is being created within the organisation in which people dare to say that something has not gone well, that it is then being checked whether that is true and that it is being acted upon. I think it's a reward for people to work in a safe culture, in which they can mention things that they don't think are going well, that they see that the organization picks up those things and that something happens to them. Both at ProRail and at me the drive is very big to make it better for the traveler. Performance needs to rise steadily and steadily. That is also the purpose of this change. ProRail is also working on the desired change. Examples of this are the new top structure coming up and the action plan to improve compliance culture. In freight transport we have positioned the goods differently: no longer outside the organisation. In many places in the organization, changes are made by steering differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-9.u19	I would like to come back to the relationship between the Secretary of State as shareholder and ProRail. Moreover, we had asked why the shareholdership does not lie with the Minister of Finance, as is the case with the NS. Perhaps the Secretary of State will answer this question. What I just heard intrigued me. The Secretary of State said that a new Supervisory Board has been appointed, including a chairman. She then discussed things she does as Secretary of State for ProRail. I always thought that this was typical of the work of the Commissioners. That is where I think the problem lies: it is not clear what the Supervisory Board is doing and what the Secretary of State is doing for the company. This could be the source of a great deal of unrest and uncertainty.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-9.u20	Changes have been made in the different roles. An order has been given to the organisation from the shareholdership. That is a property relationship which I believe the board of directors and the supervisory board should be involved in. They send the organisation and must ensure that the organisation continues. As a shareholder, I stand at a distance. We have a shareholders' meeting once or twice a year. It is customary to discuss the annual accounts and the finances in the spring. In the autumn you can talk about the strategy or wishes for the next year or several years. However, Mr Flierman refers to the management concession. That is where I will focus on the quality of public services. That must be in the concession and that is the quality that is delivered to the traveller, the buyer of ProRail. That's different from the ownership ratio as a shareholder. In addition, we have the grant. In the case of large projects, I believe that we should ensure the role of funding. I have said that I want an investment committee to assess new investments on a number of technical, economic or financial criteria. By the way, we are working hard on the road, because the number of stations we produce is large. I try to put those three roles very purely, but I notice that I almost come back to the quotes I got from the report, which is quite complicated for the outside world, such as the First and Second Chambers, to know what role you are monitoring. In the shareholder role, that is a great distance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-9.u21	I could well imagine that the Secretary of State will take on the what-question from different roles, but that the how-question is a par excellence for ProRail's board of directors and board of directors. However, I sometimes find in the State Secretary's speech that in the steering relationship between the Ministry and ProRail the question of how to do so is also regularly discussed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-9.u22	In that case, I sincerely apologize for the lack of clarity. I'm just trying to get rid of a lot of confusion, especially for the ProRail organization. Asked how I separate the different roles. We've placed the roles in the organization with other executives. They're in the department separate. Mr Flierman asked why the shareholdership was not deposited with the Ministry of Finance. In State participation policy, we have made a very conscious choice. The reason is that ProRail has been identified as a policy participation. In a policy participation there is no proper distinction between an independent organisation and the policy aspects of the company's work. Policy participations are also financially dependent on the relevant policy department. In this sense, ProRail actually functions as an extension of the policy. That is why we have positioned ProRail as a public implementation organisation in the Long Term Track Agenda. Separation of the two roles is not effective in that case. You have to deal with it very transparently and not take the wrong role at the wrong time. As a shareholder, I'm remote. The Management Board and the Supervisory Board shall be in charge. ProRail is also an e.g. How will ProRail's independence be secured? We have secured independence in laws and regulations. The decision on capacity allocation shall ensure that it is assessed non-discriminatory. Within ProRail, the capacity distribution is organized separately. ProRail consists of three cases. The capacity distribution, the traffic control and the very large carpentry company. Those are the elements of ProRail. Then there's the grant. I've already indicated that I'm pushing it tighter too. Additional capacity is being deployed and I have already mentioned the committee. The Committee also helps to better understand the complexity of the large investment projects. A large investment project such as station Arnhem runs for twenty years. It's often about executives and directors. I believe that we need to make this transparent. Now it seems that people are surprised by an adjustment of the budget. When a judge or the Security Research Council decides on another project, we may have to make technical adjustments. It may also be that the environment has a nuisance and is being built at a different pace. This needs to be transparent and insightful, so that people who are new to a job get an overview of the project. In the Eerste Kamerondere onderzoek entitled Disconnected? The Chamber has examined the Dutch privatisation and independence policies of the past decades. It also looked at the parliamentary debate and the arguments put forward for privatisation and self-determination, and its impact on the relationship between citizens and government. I think this has produced very useful insights and lessons for future discussion. I have already given a number of quotes that hit me most at the moment. One of the cases examined was the independence of the Dutch Railways. The research conclusion, which I think is most obvious, is that the citizen was seen as a customer in the discussion on the independence of the NS. That is a conclusion that fits in with my policy, because I believe that the traveller should be at the centre: not the stations, not the journey, but the traveller. This traveller goes door to door and we want a safe, affordable and reliable product, so that the traveller wants to use public transport. In this way, the objective of the Long Term Track Agenda can be achieved that the traveller is tempted to travel by train. The report also contains a piece of history. Mrs. Meijer asked about the divorce. In 1993 the parliament and the cabinet elected for that divorce. Other countries have made their own choices. That was a question from Mr Kuiper. What are the actions for the future for the Dutch Railways? Together with the Minister of Finance, I started an investigation into the current positioning of the Dutch Railways throughout the railway's playing field. We identify the advantages and disadvantages of the current positioning and what optimizations and alternatives the cabinet sees for improvement. Then we look at the issues where the NS must cooperate with other carriers and where other carriers depend on the NS. How is it currently regulated, there are vulnerabilities, how is these issues handled abroad and what does this mean for the position of the stations? This study looks at this widely. In the autumn we will come up with the results of the survey. Mr Kuiper asked how I looked at the interesting idea that we read in Socialism and Democracy. The aforementioned research with Finance is being looked at in a broad way. It is precisely this broad and open vision that matters to me. This article more or less makes a choice for national carriers. I see an answer not so much in structure, but above all in cooperation. That's how I looked at that article. How does the Recast Directive fit into all this? The implementation of the Recast Directive further strengthens and clarifies the rules surrounding the organisation of the Dutch railway market. In Mr Flierman's words, we are looking at fair and equal access. This is important because in the Netherlands the main rail network has been awarded to the NS and the regional railways are competitive. Many of the rules in the legislative proposal strengthen the guarantee of a level playing field, especially in these regional tenders. The draft law increases transparency on tariffs and access conditions for services and services, allows operators to refuse access to services and services only if there is an economically viable alternative elsewhere, requires organisational and accounting separation if there is a dominant position on the market, strengthens the role of the ACM and introduces the ex ante review by the ACM on the calculation method and remuneration for the minimum access package. The Recast Directive further improves the level playing field. I am convinced that the implementation of the Recast Directive is an important step, because market organisation on the track in the current dynamic times requires alertness and commitment. The Chamber can expect both of me. I welcome Mrs Meijer's suggestion on the inclusion of additions in the explanatory memorandum. Then I come to implementation in other countries. Each Member State has its own parliamentary route to implement a European directive. The European Commission is actually the only body to check whether the Member States have implemented the European rules in good time. There is no record of how far each country is actually going with the implementation. I have been informed informally that Sweden is ready for implementation in time and that the following countries are not yet ready: Belgium, Greece, Spain, Luxembourg, Austria, Lithuania, Poland, Slovenia, Finland, the United Kingdom, Bulgaria, Denmark, Germany and Estonia. I hope I have answered Mr Flierman's question as closely as possible. I come to the usage fee or, as it is now called, the fee for the minimum access package, which then leads to the abbreviation VMT. I am still in the "use fee" position myself; it is always getting used to new abbreviations. The Directive states on the VMT that the operator shall pass on the costs directly related to the operation of the train service to rail transport operators and that the operator shall establish a method for allocating those costs. It also states that the supervisor must approve this method of calculation. Mr Flierman asked why the bill did not include the ACM's monitoring of the efficiency of management costs. The monitoring of costs is not part of the Directive. Moreover, the ACM is mainly concerned with the market organisation and not with the efficiency of businesses in the market, but that does not mean that it is not working efficiently. As a shareholder of ProRail and as a grantor, I have an interest in ensuring that ProRail operates efficiently. The budget allocated to ProRail is part of my budget. More specifically, Article 5 of the management concession states that ProRail must operate efficiently. I can be very specific about imposing on ProRail the task of management and maintenance and the equipment costs. ProRail should aim to minimise life cycle costs and compare management and maintenance costs with other European rail operators once every four years in a benchmark. Mr Van Hattem has asked whether, for reasons of transparency, I see a need to lay down detailed rules for ministerial arrangements. Article 10 of the AMvB fee includes minimum access package that the ACM performs a test on the allocation methodology by which ProRail determines the fees for the usage fee. The same article states that ministerial rules may lay down detailed rules for the approval of the allocation method. The ACM has carried out a feasibility test on the General Management Measures. The ACM indicated in the execution test that the method for allocating ProRail can be assessed on the basis of the draft decision for this AMvB. Therefore, according to the ACM, there is no need for additional rules at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-9.u23	I didn't ask what the ACM thought. I have asked whether the Secretary of State thinks that there is at present sufficient guidance on efficiency, on costs. According to media reports, there are apparently a lot of problems with ProRail's financial records. Isn't that why it's important to send extra?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-9.u24	I have not read all the articles, but I think Mr Van Hattem's underlying question is whether I can have confidence in the organisation of ProRail. Yes, I have faith in the organization of ProRail, but improvements need to be made. We'll make a deal about that, and I'll send it over. On efficiency I send through the management concession as I have just indicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-9.u25	I do not think that is enough concrete. There is now a legislative proposal in which the methodology is indeed tested by the ACM. There is little to be said of that in itself. There's a logic in that. If the input of data is not correct, if the figures that are going to be correct are not due to a failing financial administration or perhaps even to fraud as suggested, then we still have a problem of costs that are ultimately passed on in the price of train tickets and in the cost to freighters. That is the weakness of this proposal. How can the Secretary of State, with concrete measures, ensure greater efficiency, regardless of the direction of the method?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-9.u26	As I have just said, once in a while there is a benchmark of tariffs. When I look at the usage fees and pricing, I have very alert viewers, namely the users of the track. I have no reason to believe that that's not going well with ProRail.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-9.u27	I heard a new thing in the State Secretary's speech that intrigued me, namely the benchmark. Maybe I didn't read everything correctly, but at least that was new to me. It is a partial answer to my question about the efficiency test. I wonder if such a benchmark is public. Is it shared with the users of the track? Is there a possibility for discussion, so that this benchmark can be used as an effective means of pressure to promote efficiency at ProRail?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-9.u28	Yes, the benchmark is public. I can assure you that some of the rail users are waiting by the mailbox for it to enter. I came to the end of my answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-9.u29	I still have a brief interruption. Such a benchmark is nice and nice, but it is the same as for the calculation methodology. If corrupted figures go in there, figures that just don't add up, that benchmark doesn't stay adequate. My question is once again: what does the Secretary of State intend to do to improve the financial administration of ProRail and at least to make it more fraud-proof?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-9.u30	I do not share Mr Van Hattem's words. I do not have any justification for using it at the moment. The questions about the articles that I have been asked have been put to me by the Supervisory Board.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-9.u31	Finally, Mr Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-9.u32	This was one of the questions I asked. The Secretary of State is therefore not familiar with internal reports that appear to be at ProRail which state that there would be a poor financial administration and possibly even fraud?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-9.u33	As I said, I have not read a number of articles. I can't read everything. I have put the questions to the Supervisory Board and I expect the answers to them in the near future.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-9.u34	I understand you were at the end of your speech, Secretary of State. Thank you. We have now reached the second term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-9.u35	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for her reply. As far as I am concerned, it has really clarified a number of things. We have asked a number of critical questions, but I would like to stress once again that the CDA Group is not against the principles of European policy. In our view, the fact that Europe is trying to make monopolistic state-owned companies more customer-oriented by allowing more providers on the rail network is a good development. We in this country often tend to place a great deal of emphasis on everything that is not going well. However, this is without prejudice to the fact that in relation to many other European countries, not to mention the rest of the world, the Netherlands has a very well-functioning rail network on which much is going well and which is being used intensively. As a resident of a part of the country where suppliers other than NS are also active, I can say that this regional concession is really appreciated and that the blessings of it are counted. As a smalltalk: the railway line on which my mother-in-law lives has been threatened by NS for twenty years and is now operated to the full satisfaction of Syntus. So there's a lot going well, too. We have received from the Secretary of State a number of acceptable and convincing answers about the formal structures and, in particular, how concessions to NS and ProRail are interrelated. The starting point is that the Secretary of State and the Ministry mainly look at the what-question, but that the how-question is really up to the directors and supervisors of ProRail himself. That's important. It remains complicated, these three relationships: the grant relationship, the management relationship and the shareholder relationship. Therefore, my impression remains that where it might be possible to explain it formally, it is important to make it work in practice as well. This often has more to do with culture and handling than with formal rules. I think that remains a task for the government. I have one more question about shareholdership. The Secretary of State said: ProRail is what we call "policy participation," hence the shareholdership lies with the Ministry. She can of course see the question coming: isn't NS a policy participation? I do not have that impression, however, that the Secretary of State does not pursue a policy with regard to NS. Then I will come to the directions, also in the direction of the region. It is good to emphasise once again, precisely because there is a lot going on there, that this is a task that lies not only with the Secretary of State, but also with the other concession providers. It is a task of cooperation and not a task in which mainly from The Hague should be sent. I think the Secretary of State will soon agree with me on that with her Groningen background. I found it interesting to hear about the benchmark. I assume that this benchmark is not being carried out by ProRail itself, but that there is an external test by independent experts, so that the figures that are placed next to each other are indeed verified and give a reliable picture of the relationship between ProRail and other railway operators in other countries for the efficiency of services. I see the Secretary of State nodding. I think she will confirm this later.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-9.u36	Mr. Chairman. I'm actually rather shocked by the answer given by the Secretary of State. She is not familiar with the articles from the media to which I referred. Half of the Netherlands can't have escaped the fact that this week with big letters in the newspaper said "ProRail in court for tariff increase" and "Position of Mansveld particularly shaky." It's all there. It's all business that hits her wallet right away. My question is simply whether the facts are correct. If there's no answer to that, it's very annoying. I ask the Secretary of State once again to take a good look at it and come up with an answer to us. There was another specific question that I had left open, namely that of the budgetary costs included in the charging framework and the underlying empirical data and business models of ProRail and, as a consequence, my question about the fraud resilience and reliability of the financial administration. How much is the Secretary of State's confidence in that empirical data? How does it assess that data, except through a benchmark? I've been looking at a benchmark here. In my opinion, this is not of such a detailed level that it can be derived from it. To what extent does it have concrete confidence in this? Another point concerns the ACM. There is also a case currently under way, about which the Secretary of State sent a letter to the House of Representatives on 9 September and also to this Chamber. This concerns a complaint by the FMN against the ACM. The FMN is, for the sake of clarity, the Federation Mobility Companies Netherlands. The ACM has made a ruling on this, which specifically states that the user-related costs for the maintenance of the rail and the switches and part of the replacement investments have been unduly charged to rail transport operators. Therefore, a new calculation methodology should be established for ProRail's revenues. This new methodology was to be delivered in mid-September. Is it now available and, if so, can we receive it? Is it reliable enough? Finally. It is clear that the PVV will continue to oppose a European railway area imposed by Brussels. The Netherlands must be able to decide on its own railways, so must its own borders. The free movement of persons promoted in this proposal is a free movement for the Islamic invasion that is now flooding us. I really relate that to this proposal, because this afternoon we received the message "It was a press release from Deutsche Bahn "that there is no longer any international train traffic possible until at least October 4th, which is a long-term journey between Munich and Salzburg, precisely because of that invasion. This shows how much the European Union has failed and how much the open borders and the free movement of persons and goods are a mockery. It's a mockery and a direct threat. We have seen it with Islamic terrorists on our trains threatening the Thalys with kalashnikovs and the people there. The europhile dream of open borders is an unprecedented and uncontrolled chaos. This Brussels dictation does not make our railways better, cheaper or safer. On the contrary. Our group will therefore vote against this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-9.u37	I would just like to respond to what Mr Van Hattem has to say here in the second term. I don't know if the mores say you shouldn't be interrupted in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-9.u38	After a maiden speech you may be interrupted in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-9.u39	Fine. I'd be happy to. The image that Mr Van Hattem evokes reminds me of the time when you had to cross at every border of one train. Is that the picture he has in mind, that if you travel from here to Berlin, for example, in Bad Bentheim, you have to switch locomotive and train?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-9.u40	There's absolutely no need for that. As I indicated in my first term, we were already able in the nineteenth century to establish a direct connection between Valkenswaard and Paris, for which you could simply buy tickets. None of that is necessary. All we have to do is check our trains carefully. Put a customs officer on it doing checks. That is a much more essential factor. But the point is that we cannot support the current policy of open borders and the single railway area, which is the driving force behind this piece. You must see this as an explanation of vote on our part: this is simply a piece of Europhile ideology in which we do not want to go along.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-9.u41	Last time, Mr. Flierman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-9.u42	The problem that Mr Van Hattem is now pointing out has nothing to do with the subject we are talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-9.u43	Well, the operative part of the document states that the creation of a single European railway area for the free movement of persons and goods. That is simply a point of principle which we cannot support and which we believe is a follow-up to. That is why we will not be able to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-9.u44	Mr. Chairman. I will continue on the main line of our debate. Thank you to the Secretary of State for her reply. She herself indicated that she doesn't talk to us very often. I look forward to that being the case more often. I think this subject is worth it, too. If positions are determined this autumn by the cabinet around NS and Fourth Spoorpacket, there is every reason to speak more broadly about this in this Chamber. I would very much like that. Anyway, that's a choice that, of course, lies with us. For my group, it is important that the directive that we now have and which is transposed one-on-one into this legislation does not restrict the scope for making our own choices. I would like to get the most convincing answer from the Secretary of State, not just to say that it is. The most convincing answer is important for our voting behaviour. We think it is important that we can make our own reflections on our track. The Secretary of State indicated that these questions are getting very exciting when it comes to the Fourth Railway Package. I encourage her to choose her own position in this. If I let the list of countries that have not implemented the implementation come to my attention, thank you for the openness and honesty of the Secretary of State, I have to say that this is an impressive list. These are countries which do not implement or do not implement the implementation in full. I will not qualify it, but it must give us the room to make our own decisions; other countries do the same. I come to the big line, which occasionally came forward. The Secretary of State himself has tried to outline that large, long line, including by raising the profile of parliamentary history. We made choices in the nineties that didn't work out well. We conducted a "frills" policy.. the Secretary of State also took that word in the mouth............................................................................................................................................................... Things went well. I agree with Mr Flierman that competition on the sidelines, some of which were uneconomic, has worked very well. But the consensus in the Netherlands is that you must remain in control on the main grid. You have to let NS ride that and that must of course be done under the best quality conditions. But I think we're trying to straighten out those past weave errors in a long-term process. The Secretary of State indicated that she, like the Minister of Finance, is engaged in an important reflection. When we talked to the Minister of Finance about the state participation policy, he indicated that the new state participation policy would leave NS entirely in the hands of the State. I hope that will continue to be the case. What's the Secretary of State coming up with? Does she at least intend to lay down a vision? That would be important to me. We were just talking about Maarten Veraart's proposal, on which the Secretary of State reacted a little more inflamed. I hope there will be a clearer response to that. Is the Secretary of State planning to do that? The answer to that question is decisive for our voting behaviour.............................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-9.u45	Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of State has answered for a long time, which we are rather disappointed about. I agree with the words of my predecessor, Mr Kuiper, who refers to the impressive list of countries that have not yet implemented it. I wonder how we can continue on this dead end, on our way to that Fourth Track package and be the best boy in the class. The Secretary of State also says that she has taken into account the input of the First Chamber. But I don't see that at all in what she's presenting to us now. The Secretary of State may imagine that I will advise my group not to vote in favour of this proposal for the time being.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-9.u46	Will the Secretary of State be able to reply immediately? That's the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-9.u47	Mr. Chairman. I think that at the beginning of his speech Mr Flierman said exactly what it was about. We have a great rail network in the Netherlands. We're in the global top three, looking at the quality. In the Fourth Railway Package, the possibility of direct award comes back. This is because the Commission has looked very closely at what we are doing in the Netherlands. We have a privately awarded main rail network with a quality that belongs to the top of the world. We have tendered the decentralised lines and we see that Mr Flierman has also argued that their quality is good. You can see that a combination of contracting and direct awarding works on a small, busy network of thousands of kilometres. I am very pleased with what Mr Flierman has said. Furthermore, I am very happy that his mother-in-law lives on a decentralised line that she is satisfied with. The role of the shareholder has rightly been taken into account. You're standing at a distance. You have a supervisory board and a board of directors to run the organization. That brings me to Mr Van Hattem's comment. I have of course read a number of articles, but I never know if I am complete. What matters is that the tone of those articles and their content is responded to by the organisation and by the Supervisory Board. They're in charge at that point. I turned those questions off. Mr Flierman said that paper and practice should be brought together. We've done a lot of paperwork. Then the practice turns out to be more unwieldy. I am talking about this with the unions and with the people in the workplace; they know what the effects are. I think it's important that the executives of NS and ProRail talk to each other. Because in the end, it has to happen there. In the end, it is important that the tracks are well located and the trains run well on them. Why is NS not a policy participant, has been asked. I saw that question coming. The difference between ProRail and NS moves in different ways. We do not pay NS compensation for the transport, while ProRail does receive a subsidy. Other carriers also use the infrastructure. NS has also considered privatisation in the past. ProRail has never dealt with this, because that is a national public task. Mr Van Hattem held up a benchmark. The management concession entered into on 1 January. I think it is important that there is a sound, insightful benchmark, on which it can indeed be steered. Because something that is vague rarely leads to more clarity. I have answered Mr Van Hattem's questions. The Chamber has also asked how we test empirical data. There are several instruments for that. You can think of a benchmark, but you can also think of audits. ProRail's board of directors is also sending this. In addition, several targets have been imposed on ProRail in recent years. They really hurt. It's sent at the cost of ProRail. Recently, the series of maintenance, management and replacement of ProRail have been fully vetted. These are series up to and including 2028. The question of whether these costs will be sufficient in the future has been examined. This is the subject of a report with a number of recommendations, and we will look at it again. So, how did we test it? We do it that way, among other things. I am not talking about the agenda of this Chamber, but when I hear the debate here and when I hear how much interest people are in the developments, I do not mind coming here to talk about a number of issues, such as the Fourth Railway Package. Mr Kuiper asked for a convincing answer. I've been very busy with the Fourth Railway Package for the last year and a half. This directive is framed. He has a beginning and an end and is clearly defined. We have played an important role in the creation of the Fourth Railway Package. As I said, the Netherlands played a leading role in the creation of the Fourth Track Package by considering whether it was still possible to obtain the direct award, which was not in it at first. The Fourth Track Package is about steering on quality rather than on means, tendering or direct award. The point is that there is a guarantee of quality and that it must be tested, both in the case of procurement and in the case of direct award. Those opportunities, the scrutiny and governance are all in the Fourth Track Package. That's where those choices are made. Why did I go to war like this? The conversation about direct award was and is quite exciting. I entered into this discussion because the Chamber handed out a yellow card because of the principle of subsidiarity. I believe that a European rail network will benefit goods and passengers. It is also about the quality of the material. There is also a technical pillar in the Fourth Railway Package. I believe that the standardisation and harmonization applied in this area will be of great benefit to the sector. However, I think it is important that we can make our own choices. With regard to the choice of tender or direct award, we have in any case in the Fourth Track Package that it does not start in 2023, but that it connects to 2025, to our concession. I think we should make that choice ourselves. That's what happens in the Fourth Rail Package.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-9.u48	The Netherlands is one of the few countries to implement this directive. When the Secretary of State comes to Brussels to conduct a difficult negotiation and finally to draw a direct award out of the fire, they do not say to her: wait a minute, did your Chamber not just implement this directive or did it not just agree to it? I have expressed a few fears that this could happen if we adopt this bill, but does the Secretary of State say that this will not happen to her?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-9.u49	That's not gonna happen to me. Nor have I said that other countries are not implementing this directive. The European Commission is watching to see whether it has been implemented and there are countries that have not yet fully implemented the Directive and are at a certain stage of the process like the Netherlands. I think I have been unclear on this point, because if all these countries did not do it, the European Commission would do a great deal of work. Those other countries are also working on it, but Sweden is ahead of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-9.u50	The statements on the open market and competition on all lines, which the European Commission is thinking of, can be ignored by the Secretary of State, but the Secretary of State says she wants to remove the other point, namely the granting of private concessions. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-9.u51	I want us to be able to choose how to fill that out. I'm fighting to cut up a main rail. In the Dutch case this is extremely awkward because of the fact that it is so busy and so intensively used. When I mentioned Paris as an example, France suddenly became very alert, because you have to imagine what happens in practice when you divide Paris into six pieces. So we have several conversations within the framework of the Fourth Railway Package. I hope the proposal is in two weeks' time. I assume that's why it's in the possession of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-9.u52	The discussion I have just had raises the question of how much benefit we have for the EU and for Brussels. Why isn't it better to just take care of these things as a country? What is the real advantage of this? I simply cannot find that out in the proposal before us.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-9.u53	That's an open freight network. It's not just about the travelers. You can also think of the harmonisation of pieces of technology and freight corridors, for example from Rotterdam to different parts of Europe. The Netherlands has a renowned position in the field of rail. Harmonisation and market opening, on the understanding that we can complete things ourselves as we want with the direct award, can only produce quality.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-9.u54	But that still does not answer the question of why we cannot simply settle this with the countries concerned on the lines in question. A hundred years ago, we were able to drive the Orient Express through all of Europe to deep in Asia and now suddenly we need the moloch from Brussels to settle this. What is the real advantage of the Brussels bureaucracy over our own insights, which means that we have to fight to get our interests out of the fire? That remains an irreconcilable contradiction for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-9.u55	I think that the essence of Mr Van Hattem's speech is in his last sentence. We will never get closer when it comes to Europe and Brussels. Mrs. Meijer called us the nicest boy in the class. The Netherlands is very good at implementing business. Keeping things in order is in our culture. However, as I said, other countries are also implementing this directive. I just told you who's ahead. Mr Kuiper has asked about the research that is out on the NS. It's not like the NS investigations mean we're going to revisit the order. A year and a half ago, the cabinet decided on the order. That's how it is right now. We will continue to follow the developments of the NS. I'm involved because I'm doing the transport concession. The Minister of Finance is involved as a shareholder. But it's not like we're going to have a new structural discussion to see if we're going to position the NS differently, for example in relation to ProRail. I'm assuming I've been complete with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-9.u56	One last question, though. The Secretary of State just said that she dropped the questions about the usage fee and the financial administration and all the problems there were at the Supervisory Board. When can we expect a possible answer to that? Is the Secretary of State also prepared to send that reply to this Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-9.u57	I didn't say "use fees." I have said that the questions also asked by the House of Representatives in response to published articles will be answered by the Supervisory Board. The House of Representatives has set a deadline for this. I'm assuming we'll meet that deadline. This means that the answers will be available next week. They're public documents. I have no problem sending it to this Chamber as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-9.u58	Another question has not been answered. I also asked about the procedure between the FMN and the ACM. When will that be clear? When is the calculation system revised, the method?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-9.u59	That's right. ProRail is currently working on some clarifications in his calculations. These will first go to the ACM, which then gives its opinion on the new calculations. That could lead to adjustments, but I don't know yet. For that, I first need the research and the ACM's ruling on the new proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-9.u60	I understand you had just completed your response.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-9.u61	I'm here to deal with the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That's the case. I propose that we vote on this bill next Tuesday.
