ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u1	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I congratulate Mr Rinnooy Kan on his maiden speech and his very perceptive analysis. The government also realised in good time that despite the slight economic backwind, the 2016 government budget was difficult to present as a festive budget. After all, we live in a time of multiple crises in Europe and beyond. Last week's terrifying attacks in Paris also show how nothing and no-one can get very close to peaceful violence. The SP Group is happy to endorse the fine words you have just said, Mr President. For the same type of violence, hundreds of thousands of people have already fled to Europe. Of course, this also brings with it tensions, especially when politics has been in default for so long, and for example over the years, too little structural investment has been made in social housing. And this while it's a crisis you could wait for after all these years of military intervention. We all agree on the need to improve reception in the region. My group therefore believes that you should invest heavily in this. But the refugees who have reached our country must, of course, also be adequately received. This also costs money and, as far as we are concerned, we should not run away from it and do what is necessary. This should not be structuralally at the expense of the budget for development cooperation, as stated in the motion tabled by Mr Koffeman on our behalf. Fortunately, many good things are also happening in terms of reception, partly thanks to many thousands of volunteers. Human dignity and solidarity are values which, fortunately, are deeply rooted in our society. Not a party, but presents for some groups of citizens. Of course, it is good for those who benefit from it, but it is a pity that the 5 billion in gifts that the cabinet wants to distribute to alleviate all the cuts does not go to those who have suffered the most from the cuts. The reason why the cabinet is now handing out is, of course, understandable. It is the last full financial year for the elections. It is therefore also time to take stock of the situation. Let us set the financial and economic and socio-economic policies of this cabinet, as the Millions note says will continue in the coming year, along its own measuring bar. So let's judge the government, and this rich budget, on the basis of its own priorities: sound public finances, sustainable growth and fair sharing. The first priority is to put the state budget in order. I suspect the cabinet will be satisfied with a planned deficit of 1.5% next year. The sustainability of public finances remains to be seen, as this is closely linked to the second priority: sustainable growth. We believe that the tighter and tighter line of European budgetary rules in recent years has been far too restrictive for the Netherlands too. Moreover, the same short-sighted, procyclical fiscal policy has been pursued throughout the euro area, which has unnecessarily deepened and prolonged the euro crisis and has deprived the future of whole generations in countries such as Greece and Spain and driven millions of households into great poverty.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u2	Perhaps, in that context, Mr Van Apeldoorn can reflect on the countercyclical fiscal policy pursued in Greece last year, which has received the warm support of his party and which has thrown the country so far back into the recovery process.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u3	Mr Postema may be able to explain what he means by the anticyclical fiscal policy that has been pursued in Greece. As I know, huge cuts have been made in Greece by the Troika, chaired by your Minister, Mr Postema. So I would not call it 'anti-cyclical fiscal policy'. In the past Greece has spent too much and the country had a large budget deficit. That has indeed been a problem. Moreover, I would point out that Greece was the only country in the euro area with this problem and that other countries, such as Spain and Ireland, were doing very well in terms of the budget deficit and national debt, while the overall analysis was that it was an expansionary fiscal policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u4	I didn't ask for any of this. I would like to have an analysis of the way in which the last year has operated in Greece, with the unsolicited warm support of the SP for the Greek Government's policy, in relation to the disastrous consequences of that policy. You're calling for a lot more spending. In fact, this has been exactly the agenda of the Greek Government over the past period. I would like to confront you with what is going on in real life: a country that has had extremely painful measures and policies for a few years is going down, with your spiritual support.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u5	Mr Postema, I would remind you what it is like for the people of Greece. You are talking about what it really is like there. What it really is like in Greece is that there has been huge cuts. There have been huge so-called reforms. There was and is enormous unemployment, with youth unemployment around 60%. Poverty among ordinary Greeks has increased enormously. National income has deteriorated enormously. As far as the standard of living is concerned, the Greeks have turned in about a quarter to a third. You refer to what the Tsipras government has done. It has tried to remove the sharp edges of that policy and give some air to the ordinary Greek citizen. In my group's view, this was not entirely achieved because it was forced to accept last summer's stranglehold agreement, which now brings even more social misery to the Greeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u6	Finally, Mr Postema.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u7	It is a pity that the answer to my question will only come to an end. You say that, unfortunately, this has not been fully achieved. We then had to offer Greece another 80 billion in aid because we wanted to let go of everything again, with your party's support. I would like you to take responsibility for that. You yourself played an important role in this, without being asked to do so. You wanted to steer the debate on this. Now that we're in trouble, I'd like you to take responsibility for that yourself rather than just looking at the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u8	It is really not quite clear to me what the SP Group has to take responsibility for when it comes to what is happening in Greece at the moment. In any case, it does not take responsibility for what is currently at risk of happening, namely for the mass expulsion of Greeks from their homes and for the enormous decline that the Greek economy has experienced and the enormous social misery that it has caused. Moreover, I did not plead for much more unbridled spending on the Greek side, but I spoke about Dutch budgetary policy, which, in my group's view and in the opinion of the CPB, has been extremely procyclical in recent years and has had consequences for the Dutch economy which are not positive, including ever-high unemployment. Madam President. Let me now give more thought to the third priority, that of sustainable growth. It is true that the Netherlands is now going more economically than it has been in recent years. But in our opinion, the Netherlands could have come out of the crisis with a more sensible macro-economic policy sooner, faster and better. Stronger because the cuts have unnecessarily slowed down the economic recovery. We are only now, after seven very lean years in which we did worse than the countries around us, for the first time again above the level of 2008. This has taken the recovery longer than at the time of the Great Depression. And the crisis is still not over, at least not the unemployment crisis. Socialist because cuts, which will continue to work in the coming years, have turned out to be antisocial for many people. This is particularly true for people with lower incomes, including the most vulnerable in our society. What is so strikingly called "austerity" in English is almost by definition particularly affecting those groups that are most dependent on a protective and caring government and much less those who can easily save themselves. Measures such as the dismantling of social workshops, the expulsion of people from the Wajong into even lower welfare benefits and the disappearance of domestic aid have further widened the social gap in the Netherlands. The Netherlands is better off in terms of gross national product, but the people affected by these measures are not better off in terms of their livelihood. And is it better with the 400,000 children living below the poverty line according to figures from the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau? What does the Cabinet think of this fact? Does the Minister agree with us that this is not acceptable in a rich country like the Netherlands? The fact that too much savings have been made in the area of security and justice, with all the consequences, is something many agree on. We are eagerly looking forward to the way in which the government will try to implement a motion from this Chamber calling on the government to invest more in Security and Justice. All this raises the question of what is actually behind the government's budgetary policy. We've just heard that this is probably not Keynes' vision anymore. Can the Minister explain once again what macroeconomic theory underpins his policy? And how do we move on to genuinely sustainable recovery? With the 2016 budget, after tens of billions of cuts, the cabinet will not go beyond 5 billion cuts. There is no investment agenda, neither a green nor a social investment agenda. In the opinion of the SP Group, the 2016 Millions Note is above all a visionless piece, neither meat nor fish, which inspires neither the left nor the right. Partly in the light of this lack of vision, the question is how sustainable the renewed growth is. Although all signals are called green, I do notice a few bright orange lights. The Millions note also identifies different risks from the global economy. Turbulence is trump. Despite increasing domestic spending, the Netherlands remains very dependent on exports and thus on the uncertain world economy. With a current account surplus of 10.9% this year and 10.7% next year, the Netherlands remains European champion of trade surpluses. This major structural macroeconomic imbalance is a problem both from a Dutch and a European perspective. One's surplus is the other's deficit. If I had time, I could go into the situation in Greece even further, because that has a lot to do with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u9	But you don't have that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u10	That time was not given to me. The SP Group would like to hear the Minister's views on this. What does the Minister think of a surplus of more than 10%? Does the government agree with the SP Group that this is an undesirable situation? If so, what does the government intend to do about this? In the Cabinet's risk analysis, I'm missing two more things. Firstly, the SP Group fears that the cabinet is underestimating the chances of the euro crisis re-emerging. With this summer's stranglehold agreement, the social misery in Greece continues. Many Greeks, as I have just said, are now in danger of being evicted, while the Greek Government understandably has difficulty in implementing this part and other parts of the troika dictatate. With this, a renewed Greece crisis is not unlikely, especially since the CPB also recognises that it is not excluded that more money is needed. Will the Minister also bear in mind that this will again not prove to be the last package? According to the CPB, the risk for the Netherlands is limited given the small size of the Greek economy, but if the grexit scenario gets closer again, the political crisis that is already threatening to bring the EU to the brink of collapse will become even more acute and deeper. Secondly, there is the risk of a renewed general financial crisis. Economic growth cannot be sustainable without financial stability. The security of life of people is not sufficiently guaranteed if the risk of a financial crisis, and in the wake of a recession, is constantly lurking. In order to really contain that danger, we need a different kind of financial sector. As my party has argued before, selling ABN AMRO is a missed opportunity in that respect. But at least there's another chance. SNS REAAL could be retained for the public interest and transformed into a real popular bank, a bank that may be a tad boring but which is serviceable to savers and entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u11	Let me take back to Mr Van Apeldoorn's story about Greece. I have not fully understood what the SP wants with Greece. I understand that the SP is against home expulsions, and against all the other conditions imposed by international organisations. At least, home eviction is not a condition, but there are demands on the mortgages. If these conditions are not met, there must be money. Does the SP think that the Netherlands should simply contribute to additional money for Greece?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u12	We will have to weigh that in that moment. It depends on what the package looks like at the time. We are not against extra money in principle to Greece. However, the money must be for the benefit of the Greeks and not just for the sake of saving our own banks. The latter has happened in the past: money transferred to Greece has only been used to pay off interest on current debts and has thus returned directly to our own banks. Greece could have been put in a better position years ago than it is now, namely if we had pursued a different policy, for example if I had just pointed out that Southern Europe had been given more air by, for example, raising spending in northern Europe and raising wages and inflation in northern Europe. The trade deficit, this structural imbalance in the euro area, is at the heart of the problems, the root cause of the euro crisis, and not the so-called expansionary fiscal policy of the so-called peripheral countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u13	I note that the SP has no objection to additional funds to Greece.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u14	I will continue my speech. What is the status of the privatisation plans for SNS? The Minister's own party agrees with us that SNS should remain a utility business. How does the Minister view this? The SP Group wonders to what extent the minister is always guided by the public interest of a stable Dutch banking sector and whether he is not too often taken up by the strong lobby of the same sector. The recent revelations, which will go down in history as a 'cocogate', make our group fear that too often we let the banks make the call instead of trying to make them truly serviceable to society. Unfortunately, cocogate isn't on its own. The lobbying power of large banks and their overly close links with the political and supervisory authorities - we also see this with the ECB, for example, recent revelations in the Financial Times - is a structural problem, which undermines our democracy and prevents it from being really tackled. ING thinks this kind of "thinking" is normal. Does the Minister agree? Can he tell us who else is on this level? For example, does the Minister include critical NGOs at the same level? The Minister always talks about increased capital requirements, even in the debates with the Chamber. How strict are these capital requirements actually if they are dealt with in this way? What does the Minister think of the statement by several experts that this complex quota of convertibles does not benefit the intended financial stability? The SP Group also wonders how the Minister will explain this in Brussels and what the consequences will be if the Commission considers this to be state aid. Should the deductibility of this form of subordinated loans apply to all companies? So what are the budgetary consequences? Meanwhile, under pressure from the banking lobby, much-needed further structural reforms, such as cutting up and shrinking banks, remain out of or being delayed. As a result, banks in the Netherlands, and in Europe, are still too big to fail, and in the context of the European Banking Union they are only threatening to get bigger, while the Dutch people ultimately pay the costs if they really fail. When I read the European Commission's new plan on the Capital Markets Union, it seems that policy makers have not learned anything from the crisis. The Commission is once again fully committed to the policy agenda that has plunged us into the greatest post-war crisis, namely that of further 'financialisation'. The capital market union is part of the roadmap that this minister himself has with four yes: four! Other "presidents" have been put on paper. The so-called Five Presidents' Report aims to give EMU a stronger governance framework and to make it robust for the future. In particular, the SP sees in these plans an intensification of the already existing salami tactics whereby, if it is up to the five presidents, with ever greater financial and socio-economic powers being cut off from the Member States, national democracy in these important areas is completely undermined. In the meantime, this does not solve the structural problems of the euro area and EMU. Can the Minister reflect on this criticism? Returning to the theme "growth," it is also the question whether the Netherlands will do enough to stimulate sustainable growth next year. The IMF states in its World Economic Outlook that the Netherlands should still have room in its budget for additional investments. What does the government think of this observation and call from the IMF? The SP Group agrees with the IMF that the Netherlands can and should invest more, for example in health care, education and social housing. But more green investments, so real sustainable growth, would also be welcome. The greening of the tax system, which has not yet been achieved, is also a missed opportunity, but it may still be possible to use it. The issue of sustainable growth in terms of environmentally sound growth also underlines that growth can never be an end in itself. However, in a capitalist market economy, which we accept as a fact for the time being, growth is necessary in order to maintain employment and to guarantee some economic stability, and hence security of life, for people. However, reducing unemployment, which is also one of the priorities of this cabinet, is something that, despite all the so-called reforms, the government has so far failed. With 6.9% of the labour force this year, and expected to be only 0.2 percentage points less next year, in total still more than 600,000 unemployed, unemployment remains unacceptable according to the coalition. What do you mean, end of crisis? Among the unemployed, 270,000 are long-term unemployed, as was recalled this morning. This number has risen considerably and is still rising. The question then is what the cabinet intends to do about this. Shooting the 5 billion cannon, according to the CPB, only 35,000 new jobs will be created from 2017. Doesn't the cabinet think this is too skinny? We once had the goal of full employment. As far as I know, it is still in the PvdA's programme of principle. Shouldn't that, as we ask the Minister, also be the ambition of this cabinet? Meanwhile, many compatriots remain on the sidelines for a long time, with all the disruptive social consequences as well as permanent damage to the Dutch economy. In the perspective of the SP Group, this government, with its so-called reform agenda, has devoted far too much effort to improving the supply side of the economy, while, as in the 1930s, the major problem was the lack of demand. Even though the cabinet now draws the wallet, it is too little too late. I'm getting to my last part. What has this cabinet achieved in terms of the third spearhead, fair sharing? As I said before, growth in itself is not an end but a means. Redistribution is at least as important as growth when it comes to achieving prosperity and well-being for all. The question of distribution is first and foremost an international one. Global inequality is still extreme. OxfamNovib calculated that the 85 most wealthy people in the world possess the same amount as the 3.5 billion poorest people. Of course, that screams for redistribution. But what does this cabinet do? Structurally cut a billion dollars a year on development cooperation. Meanwhile, the euro crisis, and in particular crisis policy, has increased poverty and inequality throughout Europe. And now I come to the inequality in the Netherlands, both income and wealth inequality. We will come back to this in more detail when we deal with the Tax Plan, but I will take some shots ahead of us. In my group's view, it is a myth that income inequality in the Netherlands is not so bad. Within the OECD group, the Netherlands scores very average Gini coefficient. And what are the effects of the 2016 state budget on that already huge income inequality? Contrary to what has been said in the Throne speech, not everyone gains in purchasing power. As I pointed out in my introduction, the better-earned benefit from the 5 billion package. Many social minimums are not improving and many of them are deteriorating. Eventually, the package increases income disparities. Why not reduce the burden on the lowest incomes and at the same time do more for those who are not necessarily able to participate in the labour market? Evident is that power inequality is much greater and still growing. The 10% most wealthy people in the Netherlands own two thirds of the wealth and are richer than ever. The millionaire tax proposed by my party would be a good step towards reducing this inequality. We therefore also have our wishes with regard to taxation. The most rich also evade 10 billion in taxes through so-called letterbox companies. Does the Secretary of State have a plan to do something about this? And then I haven't talked about tax avoidance by large multinationals. My colleague from the PvdA was right to talk about this this morning. In this context, I would like to ask the Secretary of State about the state of play regarding the prohibited state aid to Starbucks, champion of tax avoidance, which the Commission has found to be thanks to this cabinet. How is it that the Secretary of State was able to explain earlier that it was all right? And is the government actually going to recover that money and, if so, at what time? I'm closing up. With regard to the three priorities, I conclude that the state budget has been put in order for the time being, but at a very high price and in an extremely inefficient way, that growth is lagging behind and is not sustainable for the time being, while unemployment remains far and far too high. And in the field of fair sharing, this cabinet scores a total incompetence. The 2016 budget will not reverse these trends and also contains too few longer-term ideas for this. It's time for real alternatives. In the meantime, as always, our group looks forward to the response of the Minister and the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u15	Mr. Chairman. We live in an uncertain, turbulent time. The terrible attacks in Paris bring terror very close. We are also thinking of the Parisians, the victims and the next of kin. The same horrors take place daily in countries such as Syria and Iraq. Many people flee their country and come to Europe. Climate warming is continuing steadily and we are not yet able to stop it. We actually only have 15 to 20 years to do that, to ensure that we do not exceed the 2 degree limit of warming, above which the consequences will be disastrous. In our country many people experience uncertainty in their personal lives, by losing a job, by not being able to find work, by losing help and care. Municipalities and aldermen are called the alarm clock, because they are given enormous additional responsibilities and tasks, for the well-being and participation of their residents, but insufficient budgets and unexpected additional discounts in a short time. The members of GroenLinks find it incomprehensible that the cabinet is currently handing out 5 billion euros as a gift in the country to spawn voters. It seems as if Prime Minister Rutte's €1,000 will still be brought in. It is the acclaiming of money that is desperately needed to tackle climate change, to invest in countries where poverty, hunger, social disruption are high, to compensate for home care baldness, sheltered work or suitable work for people with disabilities, or to do something about the towering unemployment. The cabinet prefers private wealth rather than doing something about public poverty. €5 billion reduction in charges, and not just in 2016. It's about structural money, year by year. In ten years' time 50 billion! And what's in it for you? A lousy 35,000 jobs. Additional purchasing power for workers but hardly anything for those who do not work, for those on benefits or for those over 65. A lot of money actually goes to people who don't really need it. The cabinet motivates this 5 billion relief by saying that the economy is not yet good enough and that more room for the economy to grow. The key question, of course, is: what good is it? What does this 5 billion reduction really help society? My group believes that social added value is low, because billions are not spent on the major urgent problems and on structural strengthening and greening of our economy. For a substantial greening, the cabinet could have obtained a majority, but it did not. How is it that the Labour Party is so late in the cabinet for these things, so I ask the Minister. The financial soundness is also at stake. The structural budget deficit of the Netherlands is rising due to this 5 billion "cash discount" and exceeds the maximum structural deficit that the Netherlands has to meet in 2016 according to the European Union. The Council of State is very critical of this and warns that this is a more serious task for the 2017 budget, because the Netherlands will still have to make up for it. This could even lead to an additional cut of some 3.5 billion. To be honest, I think it is a policy of zigzag to reduce the burden considerably this year, but perhaps to cut back again next year. The standard for the maximum actual financing deficit is neatly met: it is not more than 3%. The cabinet calls it "the guardrail," as I read in the Millions Note. I would like to add that, of course, it is important to keep 'traffic' on a stable course within that guardrail. Then we are talking about the structural deficit. For years, GroenLinks has been calling for a financial policy that is more focused on the medium term and the structural financing deficit. After all, you have to ensure that your budget is sustainable and can take a hit when things are bad. The Netherlands has a bad track record at this point. It also seems to be learning little, even when the European Economic Board and the CPB consider this structural deficit and the medium term increasingly important. What about sound budgetary policies? Mr De Grave also reported it, but where is the sound budgetary policy of the VVD? Is that flimsy as soon as the voter's favor has to be won? And how is it that the Labour Party is giving away so much money, with so little social result for employment, greening, care and international solidarity? How important does the Minister consider the structural financing deficit to be? How does he intend to meet the European standard in this respect? Is he expecting an extra cut in 2017? You could even say: 2016 is a lost year. Social needs are not addressed and the available financial resources are not used for the structural improvements in employment, greening or the financial position of the Netherlands. What would GroenLinks want? First of all, we would like to address the climate problem. The climate problem is more urgent than ever. I was just saying that the odds of us staying within 2 degrees Celsius are getting smaller day by day. The Netherlands is in the broom truck with regard to renewable energy and energy saving. The judge even calls on us to invest extra in the short term to meet the climate forecast. And what does the Cabinet do? It increases the maximum speed on many roads to 130 kilometers per hour. It ignores the opportunity to substantially green the tax system. Power plants are burning coal like never before and CO emissions grew by 6.8% in the third quarter of this year. I would almost like to ask the cabinet: will you be able to show your face at the summit in Paris? What is the government's response to the major environmental deficit in the Netherlands? What measures is the government going to take to deal with CO emissions in the short term, as requested by the judge? In the Minister of Finance's Millions note, I do not see any additional funds earmarked to finance the additional task that is needed. Maybe you couldn't. Is the cabinet prepared to tackle large consumers more firmly? Is the government going to use the Tax Plan for this? What measures does the government intend to take to reduce the use of coal in electricity generation in the short term? Is there still a coal tax? Is that instrument possibly still being used by the cabinet? Pass-through accounts show that the climate judgment can only eventually be implemented when the coal plants in the Netherlands close. Some people say that the 3 to 4 billion subsidy for biomass, which is now going to be paid to the coal plants under the energy agreement, will no longer be needed; so use that money to bring about a rapid closure of coal plants. How does the cabinet feel about this? And what scope is there within the financial budgets and within the Tax Plan to put extra pressure on this? A second major problem we see before us is international violence and terror, which will bring refugees to the Netherlands and Europe. People who are in the horrors every day are coming here and we have a duty and a duty to offer them safety. However, reception in the Netherlands is crying out for additional financial resources, in order to be able to implement them on a smaller scale. This is also very important for the support base. The reception also calls for investment in integration, in the language and in activities that refugees can do. After all, they really want to participate in Dutch society. However, for the reception of first-year asylum seekers in 2016, the cabinet allocated less money than for 2015. That's not real at all, is it? How is the cabinet going to ensure that there are sufficient financial resources? And how is the cabinet going to ensure that these resources are not all excluded from the budget for development cooperation? In the Lower House is the motion-Slob c.s. The Commission has adopted a proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the permissible sound power level of motor vehicles and their trailers. I wonder what the cabinet will do with the implementation of this motion. The cabinet responsible for the reception of first-year asylum seekers is heavily involved in the development cooperation budget. The real use of poverty policies and the real objectives of development cooperation are under increasing pressure. The cost of the first year's reception will be financed from this. In total, the ODA budget falls further below the 0.7% standard for development cooperation in 2016. In the end, the standard reaches a low point of 0.5% in 2018, as a result of the coalition agreement. Moreover, international climate activities are also paid for within the Development Cooperation budget. That is contrary to international agreements. Why is the cabinet not even looking at Germany, which pays the extra cost of receiving asylum seekers, which is EUR 6 billion from the general budget? Germany says that we have more than EUR 21 billion extra because of economic growth. We can also spend that money on sheltering all those people who come to our country and who we want to provide security. Why doesn't the cabinet do this and let these costs be entirely borne by development cooperation? Isn't the cabinet a little weird, too? It is precisely the money for development cooperation that is intended to make it better and safer elsewhere in the world and to bring more prosperity elsewhere. How can we expect people to stop coming here when we keep reducing our investments to make things better elsewhere? I'd like to hear a response from the cabinet. Will the cabinet follow Germany? Unemployment in the Netherlands remains unprecedentedly high. More than 600,000 people are on the sidelines, of which 270,000 are long-term. The government itself is the biggest job destroyer, through cuts in care and on its own government apparatus. The cuts in home aid lead to large job losses for the less educated, a group that is already difficult to get to work. Is the Cabinet prepared to consider how, in the case of home help, which is so important to allow people to live in their homes for longer, additional jobs can be created? Does the government share GroenLinks' view that investment in the sustainability of the economy, such as in residential and commercial buildings, can lead to a lot of extra work? Is the cabinet prepared to stimulate and financially support the isolation of housing and business buildings, and to accelerate the zero-on-de-meter concepts, in order to address both the climate shortage and the shortage of employment in the Netherlands? I'd like to receive a response. I would also like to briefly address the cabinet to the budget of Security and Justice, which we will discuss in detail later in this Chamber. What room is there in the budgets to give more room for the budget of Security and Justice? The problems cannot be solved within this budget. I also have a special urgent question for the Minister of Finance. How is it possible that he has passed this budget? Everyone can see that this budget is totally inadequate for the objectives and tasks assigned to it. It's not the first time. The General Court already handed out a red card to the Ministry of Security and Justice in 2013 during the 2012 accounting investigation, due to an inadequate budget. Now the cabinet is once again presenting an unrealistic budget of security and justice. Why didn't the Minister of Finance intervene? I'd like to hear a response from him. Obviously, the First Chamber won't let this go. I'm gonna finish up. As is clear, the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance is very disappointed with this Millions note. We ask for a change of direction from the cabinet and, in particular, from the Minister and Secretary of State for Finance. The Minister writes in the Millions Note: "Centrally in the budget is the further strengthening of economic growth." We think this is an old-fashioned approach. It is not about growth as an end in itself, but about the quality of economic growth. Growth that does not produce work, warms up the climate, pollutes the environment, affects nature, destroys health and reduces people's well-being is growth that nobody is looking for. I would like to quote the following quote on a different approach to sustainable public finances and growth: "Isaac Stern has calculated that solving part of the climate problem now costs ten or twenty times as little as when you do it in twenty or thirty years' time. (...) I find it interesting to consider whether a study similar to that on the impact of ageing on the sustainability of public finances can also be carried out on climate issues. This could lead to enormous innovation in our thinking. I think I know that at the CPB and the MNP there are masses of people who also find that an exciting and relevant exercise. I'm happy to take that initiative." Minister Dijsselbloem can guess who this quote belongs to three times. No, it's not from a green politician or researcher. These are the words of former Minister Bos, when dealing with the 2008 Millions Note. What I'm so curious about right now is how you feel about this, Minister. Why do I hardly ever hear about this? And why are you so silent about the initiative of the House of Representatives, which has established a broad concept of prosperity? I invite you to seize the opportunity to put a beckoning perspective and take this stick from your predecessor Wouter Bos again. I'd like a response from the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u16	It's nice to have a little puzzle like that at the end. I have one for you, too, Mrs. Fox. You said that if the cabinet had chosen to come up with more green burdens, there would be a majority for that. What majority would that be in your eyes?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u17	Let me put it more precisely. I said that if there were greening, there might indeed be an opportunity to create a majority.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u18	You said a majority.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u19	You're talking about green burdens. I would prefer to see that in a broader package, namely a package that also invests in employment. In my view, there was indeed the willingness of the GroenLinks and D66 groups to do so, and I think that perhaps the Christian Union would also be prepared to do so. There were several parties who considered it absolutely important that, even in the field of greening, there should be a stronger change in the Tax Plan. In my view, the cabinet has used too little on that side.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u20	Perhaps, possibly, thank you for the nuance, but I am still concerned about that point. You mention three parties, but those three parties do not form a majority. So how could the majority of these three parties have been achieved in this house and on the other side? Do you count PvdA and VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u21	Of course, the coalition will have to agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u22	That's right. So the VVD would have to find something of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u23	I'll say that for sure, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u24	Can you then perhaps understand what the problem is beginning to arise?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u25	Perhaps the VVD should think about what it really is about in this world. I didn't set an example for nothing...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u26	That's a bit different from us but automatically with a majority...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u27	May I ask you to debate through the chairman? I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u28	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u29	I would like to remind Mr De Grave that in the past the Prime Minister has also worked for greening, let us not forget that. There are many measures that can go hand in hand with regard to the climate problem, but also with regard to employment and the strengthening of the economy. Around such a package I can imagine that the VVD would certainly have said that it would want to participate. It would be very good if the VVD might want to put out a little more of its hand to that type of proposal. There are many sectors in the Netherlands...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u30	If Mrs. Vos also answers my question, I would appreciate it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u31	There are many sectors of the economy that say: we are getting stronger, there will be more work, we will earn more if we are really going to take green measures. I think it should be perfectly possible to make that happen with the VVD as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u32	Finally, Mr De Grave.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u33	Absolutely, we should have that debate and there will be plenty of opportunity for that, but I would appreciate it if you did not automatically count the VVD in your majorities without discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u34	I certainly did not assume that either, but in recent years we have become accustomed to constantly negotiating with other parties. In my view, this has not been enough to date. Hence my question to the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u35	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr Rinnooy Kan on his maiden speech. We look forward to his contributions to the debate on a sustainable and innovative economy. This debate is overshadowed by the barbaric terrorist attacks in Paris. My group's thoughts go out to the victims and their neighbors. These attacks lead to many questions, but also to the question of whether we in the Netherlands have properly aligned our core institutions of justice, security and defence in terms of financial resources in order to deal with such acts of terrorism. Isn't there a need for extra investment? We can no longer avoid this question. I would like to ask the Minister for a brief reflection on this point. After years of economic bad news, the tide seems to turn, at least macroeconomically. This year the Dutch economy is growing by 2% and next year by 2.4%. A number of things are in the plus. Producer and consumer confidence and domestic spending are increasing and business investment is attracting, and the housing market, fortunately, also has better times. In addition, inflation is low. We are helped by the low price of oil and the low euro. Still, it's not all cookies and eggs. Because while after seven lean years the Netherlands has struggled towards the pre-crisis welfare level of 2008, the road to seven fat years is by no means open. The rest of the world is preparing for future crisis threats. Economic growth in China is slowing down considerably. And especially if the internet and fair bubble in China explodes and the overdrafting and overcapacity take their toll, the Netherlands will also suffer the consequences. A hard landing of the Chinese economy will hit us firmly. This also applies to the shrinkage of commodity-producing economies such as Brazil and Russia, not to mention the continuing risk of a re-launching euro crisis. I am also concerned about the fact that things that were at the root of the credit crisis - the excessive expansion of money, the cheapening of money and the build-up of debt - are now being used at European level as a recipe for recovery. That is certainly not a positive cocktail of risks. I ask the Minister how he estimates this accumulation of risks and whether this also gives him cause for concern. It is striking that the Millions' Note pays little attention to the immense refugee issue and its implications for our financial stability and for our control tools. Can the Minister outline how, from his budgetary responsibility, he looks at the issue of refugees as a geopolitical problem of the first order and at the cost of a merciful and effective reception of these victims of violence and war? We're not gonna get out of this anymore with some financial cut-and-paste work. How does this relate to the cash-flow intervention in the budget for development cooperation? A number of speakers have already mentioned this. In my group's view, it should not lead to this being at the expense of traditional development cooperation tasks. In this connection, too, I refer to the Slob motion, which has already been mentioned. The Netherlands responded to the crisis with a series of reforms and tightening ups, whether or not ordered from Brussels, of the financial institutions and monetary mechanisms. We've had a lot of debates about that in this house. My group's question is what lessons our Minister of Finance has learned from the crisis, or from the Great Recession, as the Cordelia indicates the crisis. Are we reasonably in order now or are there still major challenges ahead and if so, what are they? Does the Cabinet feel the urgency to address these challenges with priority, i.e. the general problem and the necessary flexibility of the pension system? Is there now a sustainable financial recovery? The crisis also had to do with a culture in the financial sector in which self-interest, financial gain, bonus hunting and short-term thinking dominated and the involvement in the general interest and long-term was strongly eroded. How does the Minister appreciate this culture right now? The Millions note doesn't talk about that. Is there a clear reversal in his view or is there a persistent delay in maintenance? The Christian Union Group wishes to stress that institutional reform only works if it is based on the right cultural ethos. Is that enough, we ask the Minister? What we are unable to achieve is to substantially reduce unemployment. The recovery of the Dutch labour market is lagging behind the rest of Europe. In the next two years, our country will have to count on some 600,000 unemployed, almost half of whom are long-term unemployed. In addition, labour market opportunities and the job opportunities of older jobseekers are alarmingly low. They hardly benefit from the improved economic climate and the policy does little here. This policy, leading to an increase in labour supply, exacerbates the problem of long-term unemployment, especially in the short term. The question the Christian Union Group wants to ask the minister is what story the cabinet has to tell this large group of long-term unemployed Dutch people. The longer they remain unemployed, the less likely they will ever find work again. We need to get a lot more out of the closet in order to offer this group perspective. And now that the economy is getting better, we can also free up the resources for that. My group asks the Minister whether additional efforts by the cabinet can be expected here. The cabinet marks the supposed farewell to the economic crisis with a 5 billion relief package. This positive impulse must restore consumer courage and make work more rewarding. This after a period in which our country took almost 50 billion in deficit reduction measures. Such a relief package is, of course, not without consequences for the state treasury. It leads to our structural budget deficit rising again this year and next year and exceeding the European standard of 0.5%. Mr De Grave pointed out the same thing. So did the Council of State. How does the Minister weigh this development, which we are now seeing in the rest of Europe? The rising structural budget deficit also puts a mortgage on the 2017 budget. Mrs. Vos said the same thing. How does the Minister assess this line of policy responsibility of the ministers who might come after him? The Millions note does not fail to emphasise that the government deficit remains within the 3% standard of the SGP. By the way, in 2016, the government is running a deficit of 8.6 billion, which I do not think is a small thing. It is striking that the other SGP standard is given so much less attention to a maximum public debt of 60% of GDP while our country is well above this standard by 66.2%. Can the Minister explain this difference in attention to both standards in the Millions Note? It's a bit like the wrong list logic: when you get to a standard, you pay a lot of attention to it; if you don't, it stays quiet. Are our financial buffers sufficient to speak of sustainable public finances? This seems to be the key question for my group. The Christian Union Group evaluates the rich budget from the perspective of whether the benefits and charges are reasonably balanced and whether there is a fair distribution of purchasing power between population groups. In this context, my group is particularly shocked by the considerable differences in purchasing power between two-earners and single-earners. The median purchasing power improves by 1.4% in 2016, but two earners are way above that and one earners are way below that. And that's just the picture of 2016. If you take into account the picture of the past few years, the difference in purchasing power development between one and two earners will become even more acute. Here, the primacy of the cabinet that paid labour is more important than unpaid labour and the primacy of the individual over household. And that while companies are simply approached by the cabinet as companies and households on the supplement side are approached as households. But on the wage and income tax side, the same household is less and less in the cabinet. The Christian Union must not have escaped your notice. In the House of Representatives, together with the colleagues of the SGP, it has called hard to correct this issue for us. Mr Schalk's motion, which we have signed, to close the gap between single-earners and two-earners, was to count on majority support in this house. My group believes that households who deliberately opt for the single-earner model, for example because of the education of children, care for a disabled child, care for the family, should not be financially punished. This kind of choice also benefits society. Let me stress that this is not a typical Bibletissue. All parties have large numbers of single-earners among their supporters and voters.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u36	Mr. Chairman. In the first place, I advocated a division of work within the household, within the family. That is indeed not a Bible theme, but I do believe that this is not at the expense of the much-needed emancipation. If you are not careful, it is precisely in terms of employment and the point made by Mr Ester. Can he indicate how this position relates to the high degree of urgency he feels about bringing unemployment down in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u37	Emancipation also has to do with people's choices, including at household level. If both partners agree that the tasks are shared within the single-earner model, whether it be male or female, that does not, in principle, matter that is a very powerful signal. This also benefits society, because a lot of work is done by single-parent families who now do not confiscate... I see Mrs Barth falls...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u38	I think that turned out okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u39	Don't apologize, Mrs. Barth. I'm glad you're okay. At least you can laugh about it. So that was a point about emancipation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u40	That scared the hell out of me!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u41	I hope my answer has convinced you. Now a point about labour. There's all kinds of maths going on and on. It was also calculated by the CPB. Perhaps Mr Schalk will go into it again, because this matter has been dealt with in a very strange way, not at all in accordance with the views of both parties. I can make a whole speech about what's wrong with that CPB billing, but I won't do that. This may come up when the Tax Plan is being dealt with, but it is considerably more nuanced. I am pleased that the PvdA colleague does not see this issue as a Bibletissue. This may give a chance for a broader consensus on and broader support for this idea. The issue will undoubtedly come back to the Tax Plan in the middle of next month. My group asks the Minister and his Secretary of State, who has been working on this, we have noticed the question of what justification they apply in allowing purchasing power differences between one and two earners. As measured by our collective spending, we have a strong government; almost 50% of GDP. Further study shows that our government is not big because it does so much of its own, but because it redistributes. In fact, the expenditure on classical public service tasks is less than in the past. Public investment and defence are now spending less than a few years ago. Expenditure and efforts for the general interest, for public goods, are falling. And that's worrying. Especially since 2000, healthcare expenditure has largely absorbed the growth of total government expenditure and, above all, defence expenditure. And passerby, we've completely resurrected our peace dividend, which was created by the fall of the Wall. With regard to the budget of the Ministry of Security and Justice, there is also a worrying story. Does the Minister share the concern that traditional public administration and public spending with an investment character are slowly but surely being suppressed? How does he intend to prevent this sneaking process from continuing? Last weekend's attacks in Paris show that we must not let our judicial apparatus and our defence be lost. And that simply costs money. Over the past few years, Greece has always been a major player in our General Financial Reviews. That is not the case now or much less. The Greek economy seemed to be doing less bad than expected earlier this year, but it is still doing badly. The ECB's two-week stress test showed that the four largest Greek banks in the worst scenario would have to raise more than 14 billion extra to maintain their capital buffers. These banks have over 100 billion in dubious loans. Moreover, the Greek Government is a major shareholder of these four banks and even has a majority shareholding in three cases. How does the Minister assess the financial and economic situation in Greece at the moment? How does he view the bank's recapitalisation? Is the Greek Government taking the process of reform forward with sufficient vigour? How are the negotiations on this point going? The Christian Union is particularly curious about how the Minister now assesses Greek debt. Is the scenario of debt relief, as suggested by the IMF, not getting closer? The CPB outlines four alternatives in the draft resolution to reduce Greek debt: write-off, interest rate reduction, extension of maturity and deferral of payments. Which of these four alternatives would the Minister prefer? Earlier this year, the so-called Five Presidents' Report appeared. The SP spokesperson pointed that out for a while. The Presidents of the European Commission, the Euro Summit, the Eurogroup, the ECB and the European Parliament are looking at the future of EMU. Under the somewhat bombastic title The completion of Europe's Economic and Monetary Union, a number of proposals are made which should ultimately lead to a euro area built on an integrated economic union, a financial union, a fiscal union and an integrated political union. Shared sovereignty is the starting point, thus extending the transfer of national powers to Brussels and further containment of national self-regulation. Our finance minister was one of the scribblers in his role as president of the eurogroup. We will certainly be discussing this report in detail. However, my group would like to put a question to the Minister. One of the shortcomings of today's monetary union is the lack of an exit policy. On the Greek question, this lack of clarity emerged. The report by the five Presidents does not mention this looming error. Is that purposefully the case and if so, what is the reason for that? Why has it not been considered to provide a scenario of retirement for countries that systematically exceed agreed standards? That keeps all the countries in the euro area much sharper, doesn't it? Why is the policy of sanctions not much more convincing in this respect? The Cordelia then shows that the reduction in gas production from the Groninger field is depressing our GDP growth. Growth reduction is 0.5%. The Cordelia adds almost sighingly that any further reduction in gas production by 2.5 billion cubic metres has an effect of -0.1 percentage points on GDP growth. This seems to reflect a somewhat far-reaching accounting mentality, because in the short term getting less gas from the Groningerveld means, of course, that we can also have our gas for longer. We are therefore only talking about delayed economic growth, possibly at higher prices in due course. Nor does it indicate that this reduction also responds to a number of major social concerns, which, unfortunately, cannot be expressed in hard euros. It concerns the collective peace of mind of the people of Groningen, who are now negatively affected by daily fears of earthquakes and the psychological effects of soil decline, ecological damage, public distrust, concern for future generations and concern about house prices. Does the Minister agree with the Christian Union Group that indicating only the negative macro-financial effects in the short term is a very poor economic approach to rightly reducing Groningen gas production? You can't express fear in money, but that doesn't make the problem any less. Shouldn't we stop much more creativity in innovating our current economic and econometric models, in which these social and environmental impacts are taken into account, as we do in social cost-benefit analyses of, for example, physical projects? This can be done in a qualitative sense if necessary. If only because sooner or later society will be billed if we continue unbridled gas extraction on the old ground. That is exactly what is happening now. I now turn to the Netherlands as an entrepreneurial country. The Dutch government has become much more active in stimulating start-ups in the last three years. My group wholeheartedly supports this active commitment. Start-ups are an important indicator of the degree to which the Dutch economy is innovative and competitive. As young companies, they are examples of modern entrepreneurship, economic dynamism and entrepreneurial culture. Unlike a top innovation region like Silicon Valley, the Netherlands has no strong tradition of venture capital. Moreover, banks aren't really keen on investing in start-ups. Research has shown that access to capital is an essential prerequisite for a booming start-up culture. Silicon Valley is a clear example of this: as much as 40% of the venture capital is invested in the United States. My group invites the Minister to consider how the Netherlands can become an attractive country for private funds to invest in innovative and market-proof start-ups. Does he see a role for his ministry to play in increasing this attractiveness and, if so, what is he thinking about? Or would he prefer a distant role of the government in relation to the role of venture capital? The cabinet has now entered the second half of the playing time. The endgame is coming in sight. In the first half, there has been strong reform, including in the areas of the labour market, the housing market and care. The Christian Union Group asks the Minister and his Secretary of State what the political priorities of this cabinet are for the remaining time. What is the financial agenda for the next two years? What are the ambitions and topics? My group is also keen to see the reform of our tax system. Is this process now being moved as a whole to a subsequent cabinet or do the two directors themselves still have the necessary aspirations to leave a positive legacy of some importance here? Is there really any direction on this issue? If so, who feeds this? I'm rounding up. The Christian Union Group is pleased that the Dutch economy is improving and that the worst acid seems to be behind us, but the flag is not ready yet. The CBS figures at the end of last week were quite sobering. That obliges us to do two things. We must now do everything we can to build a sustainable foundation under our economy. This concerns both the basis and the direction. The basis is that, following the example of Archfather Joseph, we must keep the grain barns filled, just as we are in a better position. The direction is to turn our economy vigorously into a sustainable, green economy in which creation is done justice. It also obliges us to take a second step, namely to ensure that vulnerable groups, including earners, chronically ill and disabled people, share in the economic revival and that refugees driven out of their homes by war violence will find a merciful Dutch government and society on their tragic path. We are still a rich country, a very rich country even, and that is mandatory. My group wishes the Minister and his Secretary of State God's blessing at a time when much of the government is being asked. We look forward to their answers to our questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u42	I am going to ring the bell again, because I am going to give Mrs Teunissen the floor. Mrs Teunissen is having her maiden speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u43	Mr. Chairman. I'm not the youngest anymore, but I'm still in this house. That means that I am happy to go to this weekly reunion with very pleasant colleagues, often with an impressive track record and a high degree of collegiality; everything you can wish for as a newcomer. It gives a special feeling to speak in this historical environment to a company where the average life experience is double that of mine, without being contradicted, because it is your maiden speech. Those who have followed the news a little in recent weeks know that these General Financial Reviews are not so general, but better to mention the Specific Financial Reviews. In the run-up to Sinterklaas and Christmas, the cabinet has decided to hand out the impressive amount of 5 billion in gifts. That amount was actually intended for very necessary structural reforms, including our tax system. But the cabinet decided otherwise, because the coalition does not have a majority in this house, because it is difficult to come up with structural reform proposals and because the period until the new elections is short. Wouter Bos, the architect of the current coalition, gave a staggering picture in the Volkskrant last week of how ideals work in politics in his vision. His column was so telling that I briefly recount him here for the Acts. Suppose that's how Bos starts, you have a 100% opinion on something. Then you become a member of a political party, and then it starts turning in because that party doesn't have the same opinion about everything as you do. Then you become a member of a group, in which you also encounter people who are indifferent and so you have to turn yourself in. Then you have to compromise with political opponents; even more water by the wine. Then it turns out that the practice is more rigid than you thought at the time of the coalition agreements, with new adjustments following. Suppose a politician manages to maintain 80% of his ideals at each of these steps and 50% in the compromise with the coalition partner, then 25% of your ideals will remain at the end of the journey. According to Bos, every politician who steps into politics with a big story at the end of the ride has only a quarter of that big story left. Bos adds that in his opinion such a politician then does what he has to do. I doubt that, and voters doubt that, too. Whoever surrenders the vast majority of his ideals also loses the vast majority of his constituents. I know that sometimes there are indulgences about witness parties who have never borne government responsibility. It is said narrowly that they have clean hands but also empty hands. But if the alternative is to have dirty hands and empty hands at the end of the process, one may wonder what exactly is the benefit of that. Of course you can sit in one cabinet with your political archrival, but if it turns out that you cannot develop a common policy that can count on a majority in both Chambers, the weakness of the journey follows without new policies. Then throw the reserved 5 billion out of the windows of the Golden Coach in the midst of the people. Widespread sowing; it's easier than spending money on things that you're structurally disagreed about. It seemed like an easy solution, which no one could really object to. But it didn't turn out that simple, we saw it last week. The First Chamber, which had been forgotten at the formation, now seems to be of greater importance than at the time thought. During the treatment of the Tax Plan in the Lower House it became clear that within the present pikorde gifts cannot be given away without fighting them heavily first. The surrealistic of all these considerations is that they are about voting relations in the First Chamber, while the debate is held in the Second Chamber and in the Back Chamber. It seems that the voting relationships in this house could be determined outside this house. In that case, the debates we are having here would be more mirage than quality of legislation. It is of course customary that the First Chambers maintain close contact with the other side. The chance that a political group in this House will vote for a law while the colleagues on the other side voted against that law is small, but that is not the same as the political deals that are concluded in the Lower House outside the scope and without interference of the First Chamber, to make decisive for the voting behaviour in this House. This does not improve Parliament's credibility. My group is happy to discuss this further, perhaps during the debate on setting up the relevant state committee. Back to the 5 billion relief. It carries the risk of a missed opportunity if it is not accompanied by the necessary structural change of course. It could have led to a necessary greening of the tax system. In 1994, Eckart Wintzen proposed not to tax people's good behavior, but to make the polluter pay. Why tax activities that add value? The alternative could be a "draw-off value." The tax on labour would be substantially reduced, while taxes on raw materials, pollution, oil, land, wealth and bonuses would be increased. In this way, we encourage the re-use of raw materials and employment and reduce unwanted behaviour, as we do with the consumption of alcohol and tobacco, and should do with the consumption of meat. The Free University calculated that for every kilo of pork sold, at least half of the cost is not paid by the consumer, but is borne by society. The costs of business that are passed on to society will have to be directly charged to the end user. CO emissions could be taxed per product. It's not emissions trading, it's direct payments. Simple, clear and effective. It is an excellent measure to tackle, among other things, the very urgent climate problem. What possibilities does the Minister see for making the polluter pay instead of taxing the good? Worldwide, additional investment is vital for sustainable development, but this cabinet has so far hardly paid any extra money for it. The development budget will even fall by 654 million euros in 2016. An increasing emphasis is on spending on the reception of asylum seekers in the Netherlands, while it is difficult to explain how the reception of asylum seekers contributes to structural aid in developing countries. Expenditure on the reception of refugees here competes with the availability of money for development purposes and, according to Cordaid, even with the reception of refugees in the region. I ask the Minister to reflect on this. It is clear that this government sees poverty primarily as the root cause of migration, but it forgets that climate change can trigger the largest flows of refugees of today. NATO has been warning against water wars for years. Those are armed conflicts not on the water, but on the water. Researchers at Columbia University found that the war in Syria can be referred to as a climate war. In its report of 8 November, the World Bank states that climate change needs to be combated faster and better, otherwise by 2030 there will be an additional 100 million poor people. In order to reduce climate change sufficiently and to prevent poverty, the World Bank states, we need to integrate measures to this end into development work. We need to do this quickly because the consequences of climate change are increasing. This makes it more difficult to eradicate poverty completely and to contain refugee flows. The World Bank advocates "good sustainable development cooperation" in order to avoid "the rise of poverty through climate change." And what does the Cabinet do? It's cutting back on development cooperation. If there was ever a need for a vision of our rulers, then it is now. The global fire that is currently raging and expanding cannot be separated from our consumption patterns, our trade policy and our supplies of arms. If we consume as if there are several orbs at our disposal, other earthlings have to cope with their shortages. This leads to lasting disruption of peace and security. The budget deficit is expected to decrease further next year, and the environmental budget deficit is only increasing. The traditional growth model is literally exhausted and offers no prospect of a sustainable future. Earth Overshoot Day, the day we exceeded Earth's natural reproductive capacity, fell on December 14th in 1980. This year, Earth Overshoot Day shifted to August 13th, a budget deficit of 30%. In less than eight months, we as humanity have used up the entire natural annual budget. From that date on, we will be in a phase of overshoot, so ecological overload of the earth. Take biodiversity. We know that biodiversity is seriously at risk and that 30% of this decline is caused by livestock farming. Without biodiversity, no agriculture and therefore no food. Without nature and biodiversity, the flow of raw materials stops for our daily lives. So we are taking an advance on the future of our children and future generations. I would like to hear from the Minister whether, like me, he believes that the ecological budget deficit, which is a multiple of the economic budget deficit, deserves structural attention in government policy and, if so, where it takes shape. The Millions note should go much more on solutions to the scarcity and distribution issues of today. Money has been given such a central role in our policies and in citizens' lives that its importance seems to rise above all other interests. What poverty! Money is what magical powers are. Five years ago, during the General Financial Reviews, this house assumed that the multiplier effect in the economy could do wonders, that every euro invested in the economy could produce much more than that euro and that every euro withdrawn from the economy costs far more than a euro. Sheer van Wijnbergen calls that reasoning based on superstition. Alan Greenspan went one step further before the US Congress in 2008. He put on the fine dress about the lack of supervision at the time of the banking crisis. Most of us, and I in particular, have fallen into a state of shocked disbelief, so he said about failing banks. He said that in his own mind he had found the error that the free market could regulate itself better than government control. He said he was very sad about that. What's changed since then? The cabinet says to work towards a solid and serviceable banking sector, but banks have become interested in unbridled money creation through debt. Almost all the money in our society is now being created by private commercial banks. The political debate on burden reduction focuses on the question of whether the gap between one and two earners is not getting too big, but the most important question we can ask ourselves at the moment is how can it be for a house where a single earner could easily raise the burden in the last century, now two incomes are needed. That is where the real problem lies with the one- and the two-earners. In good times, a lot of money is created and in bad times little. As a result, commercial banks have a disruptive effect on our economy. They are no longer of service to the economy, but are the determining factor as long as a public institution does not have the monopoly on money creation. That should be a political choice, but that task has now virtually completely out of the hands of politics. In any case, our money system should be made more robust by increasing risk capital in banks and reducing the tax benefits of debt financing. This is also recommended by the Sustainable Finance Lab. In 1982 there was another equivalent of 100 billion euros in circulation in the Dutch economy. In the meantime, this amount has increased tenfold as a result of unbridled money creation. However, the bank summit does not think there is a need to increase the buffers. Why would she? It literally deserves an ability to lend much more money than they really have in cash. And if things go wrong, then the taxpayer comes along, so the experience learns. When taking out new loans, banks only have to keep buffers of 3%. This means that for every €100 they lend, they only have to have €3 in cash. Professor Arnoud Boot indicated that in practice buffers of only 1% to 2% were found in large commercial banks. All experts call that shockingly low, but the government is hardly taking any action to change it. Why are the requirements for financial buffers that banks are required to hold not significantly strengthened? And if these buffers are strengthened, what does the Minister think of a safe percentage and a reasonable timeline? I would like to hear a response to these questions. We will have to ask ourselves how long we can go on with an economic framework based on money and debt that leaves other scarcity issues unnamed. Can we afford to ignore unpriced quantities such as ecology, water, clean air, clean soil and a stable climate? Can we keep seeing money as the size of things? Can we continue to express all our needs and desires in money? Isn't that a very poor and one-sided interpretation of what man moves? In 2008 a motion was passed in this house by Professor Schuurman of the Christian Union. It invited the government to take both national and international initiatives in order to develop scenarios in which the crises facing the world's population are dealt with in conjunction. He stressed in that motion that the credit crisis should not be separated from all the other crises facing the world. Professor Schuurman referred to the climate crisis, the biodiversity crisis and the world food crisis. His motion was supported by all parties in this house, with the exception of the VVD. All the other parties felt that money was too limited a unit to identify and solve major problems facing the world and therefore our country. I ask the Minister what the cabinet has done since then to implement this motion. If the 2016 Tax Plan does not succeed because of lack of political support, does the Minister see room for serious work on the implementation of the Schuurman motion, not for 25% as in the calculations of Wouter Bos, but with all the energy we can mobilise to address the current crises in the interests of future generations? Finally. It is an illusion to think that we can cope with the great challenges of our time - unemployment, climate change and resource scarcity - without a drastic system change. Tax reform, the structural approach to unemployment and our role in the refugee crisis are very divided. This division has now been translated into freezing structural reforms and distributing the available budget through the same quartet game that formed the cabinet. The question is not whether we can afford another sustainable policy. My point is that we can't afford not to. I'd like to hear from the Minister what possibilities he sees.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u44	Mrs Teunissen, thank you very much. I wish you every success in your maiden speech. On 9 June this year, you were sworn in as a member of this house and doubled the number of members of your group in one blow. Before that, you have been here for some time as a group supporter. Slowly you became a familiar face on this side of the Binnenhof. That same face was used in your campaign for the Provincial State elections in a more than life-size projected portrait on the wall of our building at the court pond. In the election campaign mentioned above, you announced that the First Chamber could use "a bit more spirit" and "a fresh wind" as far as you are concerned. You pointed out that it took 193 years, for example, for the first time a member of the First Chamber to become a mother. I should like to make the small point that we did not get universal suffrage until 1919. It's only in the last 90 years that someone became a mother for the first time. I don't think you should count the time for universal suffrage. Now I hear you say that you will correct it if you see it anywhere. In any case, with these demographic data, you have made a break. You are a very strange man, the Benjamin of the Chamber: you save no less than 46 years and three months with the oldest senator. Who that is, of course, I won't tell you out of courtesy. But the name of his party is so a man gives away a lot already. I'm just looking around. Allow me to outline some of your background: you studied social history in Leiden from 2005 to 2011. During your study, you investigated various social movements that were competing against the established order. You investigated, among other things, the developments in the imaging of the Party for Animals in the media. After your studies, you started working as press officer for the Dutch Parliamentary Group of the Party for Animals in 2012. In March 2014 you became city council member for your party in The Hague. As one-man group, you strive for a local "green revolution." Part of this is a plan to "green" the most petrified neighbourhoods in The Hague and reduce the causes of climate change. There is no doubt that you will also be an advocate of sustainability, animal welfare and the environment in the First Chamber. We have just heard that from you. Mrs Teunissen, I wish you every success in your further contribution to the work of the Chamber and I shall suspend the sitting to allow colleagues to congratulate you on your maiden speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u45	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank you for the way in which you have considered the tragedy in Paris, to which most of us have also referred, not only this afternoon, but also this morning by Mr Hoekstra. I very much agree with his words, addressed to the cabinet. In our group meeting this morning we also considered it, not only with our words towards each other, but also in our prayers. It is a strange little bridge, but I would also like to congratulate some people on their maiden speech, namely Mr Rinnooy Kan and Mrs Teunissen. I look forward to the discussions between us and the debates we will have with each other. I wish Mr Van Rooijen strength, who will give his maiden speech after me. I had only registered for ten minutes, because I wanted to name some general themes in my first General Financial Reviews. But I have adjusted my contribution because I believe that the First Chamber, but even more so the Government, is entitled to know how the SGP Group lives on to the treatment of the Tax Plan. Call it a timely signal; as far as I am concerned, Mr De Grave is being served.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u46	Should I understand from this that your contribution will be longer than ten minutes?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u47	I'm gonna try. Can I put it that way?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u48	You're gonna try to get that ten minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u49	Make it eleven! Last year it was about support for the General Financial Reviews. This was then provided by the so-called C3, namely ChristenUnion, D66 and SGP. That would have been possible again, if it hadn't been for D66 to lose weight before the summer. That is a pity in itself, because then perhaps a firm start had been made with the tax renewal, which was and is very much needed. That is not inconceivable at all, because there has been some mention of the amount needed for this reform. That amount was, yes, exactly 5 billion. And that money is there! Only, the constructive 3 is gone. So, 5 billion in the cut. What are you gonna do with it? I see three options: saving, redeeming or spending. Option 1 is saving so that in 2017 a new coalition can get started with the much-needed revision of the tax system. But that option doesn't fit in the system. So we automatically go to option 2: redeeming the sovereign debt, the financial system further in order. However, fair is fair: after so many years of hard intervention and austerity, it is understandable and to be appreciated that the government chooses to reduce the burden on citizens. Moreover, the Council of State questions the intention to use EUR 5 billion to reduce the burden on labour at the expense of the structural budget deficit. How does the Cabinet appreciate this warning from the Council of State? In any case, debt repayment has not been chosen. And so we come to option 3: spend. We are talking about 5 billion for the citizens with three goals, repeated by the Secretary of State: reducing the wedge by reducing the burden on labour, reducing taxes, as this increases purchasing power thanks to increased disposable income and increasing the number of jobs. Bet's 35,000 jobs. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats considers these important points to be important, but there are other areas of interest which should not snow under. We are thinking of two important issues in our society: security, both outside and within national borders, and participation, with attention to paid and unpaid work. First, security: compliments on the extra effort for the Defense Department. That's a good start after all the demolition of the last few years. The question is whether it is sufficient, especially in view of the developments of the last few days. In the House of Representatives there seems to be another amendment for an extra boost, which was dissuaded last week. Are the developments of the last few days perhaps a reason for reconsidering this opinion? In addition, there is internal security, i.e. the budget of Security and Justice. It has yet to be congratulated by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. We would very much like to see improvements being made there. The Brinkman c.s. motion. shows that this is a broad shared vision of this Chamber. We are anxiously waiting for the budget debate in the House of Representatives. Participation is also an important theme, especially from the Christian point of view: Loving God above all else and your neighbor as yourself. The latter can be reflected precisely in the participatory society. The main focus of the cabinet is on paid work, but the SGP group insists on paying attention to the position of those who do unpaid work. They are very often put away as inactives, but perhaps these are the people who really give substance to our participatory society. That's where the group sits. And there are still a lot of them, about 1 million; that amounts to about 500,000 households. To this group, the SGP commissioned research by Maurice de Hond, who has a publicly recognized research office in The Hague. This study shows that 75% of them cannot find a job or accept a job, because they have a disability, because they cannot find a job, because they want to care for their family, because they have sick family members, and so on. That is not, for a large part, just a choice of one's own and free choice. We are talking about 750,000 people in 375 000 households. This means that 375 000 jobs are paid as a earner, and their 375 000 partners are thrown into the hope of inactive people. If I mention that number, everyone knows right away that this cannot only be the people behind the SGP: the SGP won 193,000 votes in the most successful elections ever. Research shows that 20% of those SGP voters are earners. That's less than 40,000, about 20,000 households, so far less than 375,000. Then where are those one-earners? Absolute leader in terms of one earner is the largest party in this Chamber and the largest party in the House of Representatives: 18% of VVD voters are earners according to Maurice de Hond's research. Converted to the last Lower House elections, one earners account for more than seven VVD seats in the Lower House. A good second is the Labour Party, with 11% of their voters. That's more than four seats. Nice detail: there are more earners who vote for D66 than for the SGP. If others are interested in the numbers for their party: I have the list with me. One thing is clear: one earner sits with all political parties, and it is therefore very good that this group has been given particular attention in the political debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u50	With all due respect, and perhaps also on behalf of other parties, this reasoning does not seem to me to make any sense. The simple fact that a earner votes for a party does not mean that that party should automatically attract the tax fate of the single earner in particular. With our choice of sharing the burden between one and two-earners, we want to serve purposes other than merely expressing the status of a earner. So if Mr Schalk tries to persuade us along this line to support his motion, I will give him little chance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u51	I thank Mr Rinnooy Kan for his question. He is, of course, right that if someone chooses to be a earner and also vote for D66, that does not mean that D66 has to do exactly what this person says. If Mr Rinnooy can do that, I agree with him.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u52	That's not what I'm talking about. I myself, for example, am technically a earner at the moment, and I am voting against that motion out of total conviction.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u53	Yeah, I'm trying to tell you that, too. Of course, D66 doesn't have to care about the fate of the single earner. Indeed, one earner can vote with full conviction against the motion of the SGP and seven other parties. I totally agree with Mr Rinnooy Kan. Everyone's free to vote what they want. I am simply trying to show with the figures I have mentioned that the prejudice that those earners would be mostly with the SGP or other Christian parties is not true. Moreover, Mr Rinnooy Kan did not say that at all in this speech, but that is often said. That it isn't true, is shown by the research that has been done specifically to see where they actually are. Thus I reached 11% of the D66 voters who are also a earner. Maybe they love it that, if they earn €40,000, they can pay €8,000 more taxes than others. It's okay, and it's okay. That is the reality. That is what I was going to say just before Mr Rinnooy's interruption: the difference between one and two earners can take absurd forms. The difference in tax with an income of €40,000 is known and recognised. Two earners with that income pay €2,000 tax and the one earner five times as much, €10,000. That's unfair. On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, I raised this point in the General Political Reviews and included it in a motion calling on the government to take measures to reduce the substantial differences between one and two earners. This motion was useful for what took place in the Lower House around the 2016 Tax Plan. That was an intensive process, for which the Prime Minister praised all parties in his weekly press conference. But despite all the kindness, there was no agreement. Only reason for this is that the cabinet clings to a calculation of the Central Planning Bureau, which does not comply with the amendment of SGP, ChristianUnion, CDA and SP. The CPB says the proposal would cost 35,000 jobs. However, that calculation model is wrongly based on the assumption that the tax rebate will not be reduced at all, but will remain at the higher level from 2016. And that is not at all what the amendment is asking for. Conclusion: a rigid approach to a calculation model results in a rejection of a good proposal. What remains is an amended note, with a range of measures to overcome as many parties as possible. However, it is precisely the group that has turned the whole debate around that is coming to an end. I will put that against the motion on the single-earner, which I have indeed tabled together with seven other parties in this Chamber. It called for a reduction in the gap between one and two earners. So what happens now? That gap is widening. Even the government's amended proposal increases the gap a few more tens. The members of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats cannot understand this. It is unfair for a earner to pay up to five times more tax than two-earners. Do the rulers agree that the gap is indeed not reduced? And how does the government intend to give substance to the motion on a single earner, which was supported by eight parties in this Chamber? Resuming: there is a cautious recovery in the economy; the purchasing power of citizens is strengthened. Congratulations to the government for wanting to promote that. However, the way in which the unfair treatment of a earner is pursued, following many attempts torpedoed by a fictitious calculation, results in the SGP's fraction having to make up its mind. I am doing this at an early stage in the General Financial Reviews, because I believe that the government is entitled to know in good time how the SGP Group looks at the treatment of the 2016 Tax Plan. I would find it unbelievable if the SGP, against its own motion, supported the Tax Plan that would widen the gap. I cannot justify this to a large number of voters of all political parties, taking into account what Mr Rinnooy Kan said. Nor, of course, can I justify this to my own supporters, nor, finally, to seven parties in this Chamber who have signed and supported the motion. Madam President, I've been shot a little over the last 11 minutes. Thank you for your understanding.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u54	Given the importance of what my colleague has said, I would like to know a little more about the facts that lead the SGP Group to regard this as a deterioration, as an increase in the gap. Could Mr Schalk be more specific about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u55	The Tax Plan now under way will widen the gap. That has happened three times in the past few years. The SGP Group has drawn attention to this in all kinds of negotiations and previous agreements, in which the SGP has been very cooperative and has participated in a lot of things, in all possible ways. Every time it was said, we're really going to do something about that. At the General Political Reviews that took place here on 16 October last, the Prime Minister asked me to hold my motion until the Tax Plan was discussed. Then I would have to file that motion on 15 December. That seemed to me to be very late, especially since it is clear that the position of the single-earner is getting worse because of the tax plan that is now under way. One earners are going to pay five times more taxes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u56	Does Mr Schalk agree with me that it is not just a question of comparison in a relative sense, but that it is also important to look at the disposable income of families? With the most recently planned adjustments to the Tax Plan, is a certain helping hand in the direction of the SGP?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u57	That is certainly true when it comes to disposable income. I didn't fight that either. I didn't talk about that. The purchasing power cards show that everyone is making progress. That's beautiful. I do not have the percentage ready, but I believe that two-earned people are even improving 3.4%. Of course, that's a wonderful percentage. An earner has an improvement of 1.5% or 1.4%. In other words, there's a difference. Everyone is making progress, but two-earning people are making about 2% more progress. That's actually the problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u58	That is an earlier ventilated and known problem. However, we noted this morning that we also have other problems, including far too high unemployment. I would ask the SGP Group and Mr Schalk as chairman of the group to also consider the prospects for workers and those who offer themselves on the labour market. I hope that Mr Schalk will also see that the package of measures now before us is a two-edged sword. This is an increase in purchasing power across the board and it is aimed at improving the labour market perspective, especially for those on lower incomes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u59	I think my colleague is making an important point. What about employment? I have just put that briefly in my contribution. There has been a whole series of amendments in the House of Representatives. I cannot pass them all by and that is not important now, but it is precisely in the last amendment that it has been made clear that there will be no job losses if you carry out it as it is now. There's no denying that either. The 35,000 jobs the cabinet hopes to gain are therefore not affected. That is what you see when you calculate it on the basis of the amendment as it has now been formulated. The problem, however, is that the Central Planning Bureau puts the calculations in a certain way in its frame and says: in 2016, the general tax discount will reach a certain level and we will keep it until 2040. If you do that, it'll lead to job losses in the long run. Across the street, in the House of Representatives, it was said at that time: come away from the CPB model. I understand that government parties attach great importance to this, but if you were to pass it through on the basis of the legal text and therefore if there were any attention to reducing the general tax rebate to 2028, I would say, you would not have any job losses. I therefore call on the Minister and the Secretary of State to take a very close look at this. Why should we allow a possibility to get a tax plan through this Chamber, based on calculations that don't matter? I was at the end of my speech. I'm curious to hear the answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u60	I give the floor to Mr Van Rooijen for his maiden speech. We'll listen to him carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u61	Mr. Chairman. My group agrees with what Mr Hoekstra said about the terrible events of last week, the attacks in Paris. I too congratulate my colleagues, Mrs Teunissen and Mr Rinnooy Kan, on their maiden speech. We are colleagues this afternoon, the three of us. I too am not the youngest, but... I've seen the Secretary of State have had to leave us. He's been called out of the other room by one chamber. That's a little flash-politician. It may be rather unique under state law, but it may also reflect the harsh, unique situation we are currently experiencing in relation to the Tax Plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u62	I had already announced that the Secretary of State would leave.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u63	I didn't mean it like that. It's a mere observation. Of course, I would have liked to have turned to the Secretary of State. The future has a long past. This applies to the First Chamber, to income tax and to my presence in the Senate, after having been allowed to sit here behind the government table more than 40 years ago as Secretary of State for Finance alongside then Minister Duisenberg. And now I'm standing here for a maiden speech. It is good to reflect today on the attempt at a fourth reform of income tax after 1964, 1990 and 2001. It has remained in an attempt that has failed miserably and has resulted in a tax reduction for workers in particular. It is an ordinary plan without further vision, which was widely requested and urgently needed. A year before the 2017 election year there is a reduction. The cabinet must have thought: security for everything. I would first like to talk to the Minister about the tax policy leading to tax discrimination between older people and beneficiaries and the introduction of new principles into income tax. The government's financial and economic policy has a strong short-term focus. A reduction in pension contributions and a reduction in the tax burden for workers should encourage consumption, in the hope that employment will also increase. If the government wants to reduce the tax on labour, then that is no reason not to lower it for the elderly. We think it's and-and not or-or. Can the Minister answer this fundamental question? There's almost 4 billion going to the workers. The 2016 Tax Plan includes a reduction in the rate of the second and third discs, an increase in the labour discount and an increase in targeted discounts. The total amount involved is 7 billion, with a simultaneous reduction and reduction of the general tax reduction of nearly 2 billion. We are talking about 7 billion gross and, on balance, 5 billion for 35 000 paper-based new jobs. The net and purchasing power of the workers are making a great deal of progress. They've been awarded. The employment discount will be increased by €1,100 to over €3,300 in 2017. On top of that, the income-dependent combination discount, the IACK, of around €2,800 is still available for two earners with children under 12 years of age. For someone with an income of €30,000, a single person under 65, there is a reduction in the tax to be paid in 2016 by almost €7,500. That's a 70% discount, a subsidy. This has little to do with taxation of income. The elderly discount is structuralally €960 to an income of €36.000; above that it is virtually zero. That is €2,350 less than the employment discount of €3,300. The general tax discount for older people is also half: €1,100 lower. The elderly receive a total of roughly €3,500 less in discounts, not to mention two-earners. In 2016, the elderly receive a one-off increase in the €140 discount, a tip compared to the permanent €1,100 for the workers. This one-off tip will only be given to the elderly because otherwise their purchasing power would remain severely negative. That even got the cabinet too grumpy. This is all the more painful when the workers are making a great deal of progress. According to the Minister, the reduction in working hours is a more effective way of reducing the wedge, since it applies only to workers. In my words, that is another way of saying that this discount excludes the non-working people. Can the Minister respond to this? In our group's view, the large shadowy side of this tax plan is the increasing deterioration of the principle of carrying capacity due to the much lower burden on workers. It's been going on for a while, but that's no reason to continue with bigger and bigger steps. Think of the growing difference between single and double households, for which attention is rightly called for on the other side and now here. When asked about the capacity, the directors give the following answer in the note following the report: "(...) The individual and progressive tax system which the Netherlands has is a system aimed at employment. The surcharges have a different approach. That system looks at the difference in carrying capacity." I read this with curved toes. I am pleased that the Minister's answer to our question on this passage recognises that the principle of carrying on as an important pillar of income tax is reflected in the progress, but still strongly disagrees with the Minister on the content of the principle of carrying on. I shall, of course, come back to that when I deal with the Tax Plan. Does the Minister recognise that the income tax with the Christmas tree of income-dependent levelling discounts has become a distribution of benefits and subsidies, a kind of sintering system with great randomness? Does this systematic breakdown lead to the end of income tax? This has nothing to do with taxation anymore, has it? Would the Minister like to discuss this in detail? Carrying power means an equal tax on equal income for all and a higher tax as income is higher. There must be no distinction by age. Can the Minister respond to this? In this context, can the Minister provide the appropriate table on the tax burden of older people compared to workers? We meant, of course, the calculation excluding the AOW premium, as this is not a tax. The 50PLUS Group calls the labour discount in combination with the income-dependent combination discount the discriminatory Rutte-Dijssel flower tax. I hold them both responsible for entering two separate systems in box 1: box 1W for workers and box 1NW for non-working people. In 2015 and 2016, alone, the net difference will increase by almost €1,800. Putting elderly people down as non-working people, when inactive people are derogatory, derogatory and embarrassing in our eyes. The income tax is thus basically converted into a tax according to age: as you get older, you have to pay more tax on the same income. The income tax has thus become an age-dependent life tax. In his letter of September 2014, Secretary of State Wiebes called the income tax a life-cycle tax: the tax burden better spread over the course of life. "The pressure is highest in the working phase, while at that stage the highest costs fall, such as the repayment of the mortgage and the student debt, the care and education of children. The pressure is lowest for the elderly." The enormous increase in the cost of caring for the elderly is then deliberately not mentioned, I note. Can the Secretary of State indicate on what basis he bases this fundamentally different view on income tax? This is an age-by-age tax, isn't it? He says it's about a choice. He also formulated this last Thursday in the House of Representatives: give your tax advantages and pay attention to the wording! In the active or inactive phase of life? In fact Wiebes says: from now on we are giving the present workers a great tax advantage. But then I say: we, the elders of today, have never had them. Too bad, the cabinet actually says. It's kind of a retrograde advantage. It's like saying to the workers: you're getting a mortgage interest deduction of 120% from now on. This applies only to the workers. It looks a little like it. Prime Minister Rutte's creativity has no limits in defending the tax reduction on labour. First, he mentions the limitation of the reduction to workers as a choice. We didn't miss that. But more in the defensive on the other side he comes up with the defense that the fact that pensioners do not receive indexation is not an argument to give them tax relief because the government is not responsible for non-indexing pensions. A thinker. On the other hand, the tax on income tax, both in the case of increases and reductions, is totally independent of whether or not the supplementary pension for pensioners is indexed. Can the Minister respond to this? Older people must also contribute to all tax increases, regardless of whether indexing takes place. Also in the case of full indexation of pensions, tax reduction has been applied so far and with emphasis also structuralally, especially in the two previous major tax reforms in 1990 and 2001. At that time, exclusion of the elderly did not play. It's possible. Can the Minister explain why the elderly in the above-mentioned years did share in the reduction and not now? That screams for a better explanation than Rutte's. What is the Minister's better explanation? Why does the cabinet double the elderly by not giving them indexing and lower taxes? For my group, it is incomprehensible and worrying that the Prime Minister in the Lower House has got away with this. It is a far-reaching and dangerous argument, because it is well known that pensioners will not receive any indexation over the next ten years through the policy of the Rutte Cabinet with the new rules of the financial review framework and the Ultimate Forward Rate. Last December, Mr Hoekstra debated both issues, the review framework and the Ultimate Forward Rate, with the Secretary of State for Social Affairs. What do you mean the cabinet isn't responsible? Does the Prime Minister therefore believe that in the next ten years, in the case of further reductions in income tax, pensioners should remain excluded because they are not indexed? In September 2014, the government, with a better tax system, wanted to reduce the tax on labour by 15 billion. In this case, other taxes should be increased by 10 billion. That is why Rutte knows where to find the pensioners. In that case, it would be self-evident that the elderly would also contribute to the increase in excise duties, the increase in environmental taxes and the increase in the low to the high VAT rate. In particular, they affect the lowest incomes, those of the elderly the hardest. This is pure discrimination, isn't it? Older people, however, have to contribute to tax increases, as in the past seven years of crisis, but cannot report on the tax cuts of today and, worse still, of the coming years. I repeat: can the Minister justify this discrimination? Our group believes that older people are treated as second-class citizens. We are talking about huge amounts of money. Over the last seven years of crisis, taxes have increased enormously; I refer to VAT. Since 2008, these have been tens of billions to which the elderly have contributed, and without protest, because that is what we seem to be, up to a certain point. But they do not share in the tens of billions of structural tax cuts over the next ten years. Ten times five billion is already 50 billion, but the elderly don't get a penny of it. Working people get a new bike every year, with a working discount of €1,100, two-earners even two bikes. Older people are lucky that in 2016 a flat tire of their old bike will be glued once. They just have to wait and see if the next few years a new flat tire is stuck. At least they don't get new bikes. This is jip-and-janneketal, chairman. Then it does not help that Wiebes answers in response to a question from the VVD: the aim will continue to be to move towards a simpler system with lower labour costs. So it's just gonna go on. Can the Minister clarify this answer? So is that policy going to continue? I have another pressing question: can the Minister state that it is not the intention to systematically reduce, halve or even abolish the elderly discount? Above an income of €36,000, the elderly discount has already been virtually abolished. This isn't getting much attention, so I'm just gonna remind you here. The elderly discount will be reduced by a further €83 next year, leaving a €70 tip for people with an income above €36.000. So far, it has been established that workers will continue to receive €1,100 or €2,200 more and older people will receive €180 to €450 less. This is due to the structural increase of almost 1% of the care premium. That's a hell of a decline, isn't it? Is that a balanced distribution of income? How does the Minister feel about this? Can he promise that in the coming years this premium, which is paid only by self-employed persons and pensioners, for the employee, the boss does not pay the premium again by 1.25% to the level of employers of practically 7%? Next year the disastrous abolition of the elderly allowance in box 3 will be added. We shall come back to that in the Tax Plan. Our group has a great deal of concern. This cabinet period is increasingly characterised by care for the elderly: no indexation, no tax cuts, but tax increases and increasing healthcare costs, partly due to the huge cuts in care for the elderly. Take it three times; you have to dare! There is another way of taking care of the elderly three times: the 2013 WUL of 4%, which caused a storm of protest among pensioners, the 2011 Forest Tax and the secret 4% indirect taxing of the AOW from taxes. Our group is also pleased that, in response to our question, the cabinet has not decided on what it calls speeding up the fiscalisation of the AOW. We do not agree that this is already a gear. We do not even want to start a real fiscalisation with the abolition of the AOW premium levy. Can the Minister give an unequivocal answer to this question? Older people are getting crazy about constantly stacking loads. The elderly have to pay more and more for their own care costs. Then it is only right that they should also be able to pay these costs through the structural and proportional sharing of the tax reduction of 5 billion. It cannot be said enough, even in this house: the average supplementary pension is only €500 gross per month. Half the pensioners are still under there. Speaking of rich elderly people! By the way, nobody ever talks about wealthy workers as a fiscal target, but that aside. If Minister Dijsselbloem had 15 billion, he would give it to the workers, he said recently in a national newspaper. Indeed, "Sinterklaas sits there," but not for the elderly. They don't exist for this cabinet. Our group finds it shameful. A civilized country also cares for its 3 million elderly, isn't it? Enough is enough. Finally, I would like to talk about the European Central Bank's policy on pensions. For the euro, the future does not have such a long history, but it has a history. In 1997, Nobel laureate Milton Friedman said the following about the euro. The European single market is a model of a situation which is detrimental to a single currency. Europe is composed of individual nations, whose inhabitants speak different languages, have different habits and have much greater loyalty to and attachment to their own countries than to a common market or the idea of Europe. Friedman concluded that the adoption of the euro would exacerbate political tensions by transforming various shocks into political issues leading to divisions. In his view, these shocks could easily be offset by changes in exchange rates. It's like he predicted a shock like that with Greece. Can the Minister respond to Friedman's vision of that time? What's the lesson to the present? ECB policy is characterised by a strong short-term policy. This started at the end of 2014 with the introduction of the variant on the incentive policy of the FED: the "Bernanke banknote helicopter." Everything is aimed at achieving 2% inflation, as if it had to be an end in itself in order to achieve more growth. It is limited effective so far, hence Draghi has recently announced an intensification for December. But if the oil price is cut by half this year, that 2% is a heroic and non-real objective. It's stimulating against the cliffs. The ECB's policy has put short-term interest rates at a historical low. What does the Minister think of this effect? So far, only the stock market has benefited from it, with hordes and punches. Back to the low interest rate. Does the Minister recognise that pension funds and savers are most affected by this ECB policy with further falling interest rates? Does he recognize that it's mainly the elderly who feel this directly in their wallet? I would like a clear answer to these two questions. Can the Minister, if he does not agree with this, explain why this is not the case? The wealthy pension funds are counted by the low interest rate on the street. Over the last seven years of crisis, the funds' assets have doubled from 700 billion to 1,400 billion because of very high yields. That's twice our national product. However, low interest rates should not be indexed. It's inexplicable. The risk-free interest rate decreases with the short Draghi interest rate to 1.5% now. I ask the Minister whether there is still a market interest rate here. For the long term, you're talking about pension liabilities in 40 to 60 years anyway. Can the Minister give his views on the relationship between the ECB's interest rate policy, the impact on the calculation rate and the consequences on pensions? Is there any reason to look at this again politically? Does the Minister recognise that working with a significantly reduced arithmetic rate has a procyclical effect on the economy? Is he prepared to take another look at the opinion of the 2012 Social Economic Council on countercyclical storage of risk-free accounting rates? Moreover, 50PLUS considers that the tax reductions should apply to young and old and that pensions should be indexed. We look forward to the answers of the Minister and the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u64	Thank you very much, Mr Van Rooijen. Congratulations on your maiden speech. Allow me to outline your background in your case as well. You are now known as "retirement champion," I'm just saying crazy, but there has been a long and versatile career ahead of that. You started out as a tax inspector in the mid 1960s. In 1968 you joined Shell, where you soon became head of the tax department. In 1973, you were asked to become Secretary of State for Finance in the Den Uyl cabinet. That cabinet was difficult to establish, but finally entered the books as the most progressive cabinet in parliamentary history. When you were 31 years old, you were the youngest secretary of state ever. Two of your achievements are the creation of a law on the introduction of a temporary self-employed deduction in income tax for smaller self-employed persons and a law to prevent improper use of som policies. After your Secretary of State, you were a member of the House of Representatives for three years. There you were a tax specialist of the CDA Group and you also did social affairs, economic affairs and public health. In 1980, you returned to Shell, where you eventually became director of public affairs. Later on, you worked for the Dutch ancestors of PricewaterhouseCoopers, now PwC, and as a member of the Supervisory Board of Social Insurance, as an independent management consultant and as director ad interim at Nuon. From 2005 to September 2012, you advised the Minister of Health Care Institutions from the College. Sports or, rather, the board of sports is close to your heart. For example, you have been chairman of the section paid football of the KNVB and chairman of the Royal Netherlands Athletics Union. In this latter capacity, you said in an interview in 2004: if we are going for something, then for gold, not for less. This statement is typical of the full surrender with which you do your job. As chairman of the Koepel of Dutch Associations of Pensioners, you have been defending the interests of pensioners with many Begeisterung for a number of years. Here in the Chamber, too, you will undoubtedly continue to draw attention to their position, as we have just heard. I wish you every success in your further contribution to the work of the Chamber. I'm suspending the sitting to give my fellow Members the opportunity to congratulate you on your maiden speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u65	Mr. Chairman. I am the last in line, but that gives me the opportunity to congratulate all three colleagues who made their maiden speech here. With a lot of others this afternoon, I notice that we are living in a chaotic time. This is underlined by the words you yourself said at the beginning of the afternoon, Mr President. I believe that this should also have an impact on the decisions that will eventually have to be taken following this meeting. Where do we want to go with our economy and our public finances? Of course, that's not a difficult question. We want a growing economy, with low unemployment and an acceptable distribution of income. For public finances, we want a budget surplus, big enough to be able to intercede in bad times, which are bound to come again, as well as a smaller public debt than we currently have, at least below 60% of GDP, as agreed with the EU. I'll go over the points separately. Our economy seems to be able to grow in the first few years, although we have no certainty about it, as was shown in the last quarter. Recent reports on the world economy are also more warning and gloomy than jubilant. Unemployment is too high, too high. The government wants to do something about this through more tax incentives for labour income. I'll come back later. The distribution of income in the public and semi-public sectors in recent years has been considerably improved, but in the commercial sector, for example in the banking sector, there seems to be very little understanding of this issue. This does not contribute to the satisfaction of the Dutch public. Our tax system is traditionally used to make the strongest shoulders bear the most heavy burdens, including in terms of income distribution, but we use it mainly for all kinds of politically motivated stimulation and discouragement. As a result, it has become a mess of regulations, exceptions, discounts and allowances, which, on balance, harms one-off households and favours foreign companies, who make profits elsewhere but prefer to pay taxes here. Does that have to change, this mess of regulations and that facilitation, seducing foreign companies? Yeah, of course that has to change. As far as income tax is concerned, this requires a tax reform that restores simplicity and transparency, and which is not going to happen now, so much is clear. As far as taxes on profits are concerned, this requires coordinated international action, which is being addressed at OECD level, but which may go a few more steps further within the EU. Surely we want a fully functioning common market with a level playing field? Does the Minister not agree that this will require the greatest possible transparency? Does he not agree that this objective can only be achieved by harmonising the tax base, because otherwise everyone always tries to be smarter than anyone else at the expense of the overall profit base? Surely our sovereignty is not seriously affected while we are still in a position to set our own rates? How does the Minister feel about that? Then I come to the point I mentioned earlier. Is it wise to reduce the burden of 5 billion? Fortunately, our economy is doing well now, but we do not know how long that will take. We meet the EMU deficit standard, the budgetary standard, but we do not yet meet the structural standard. However, EMU debt is also well above 60%. Moreover, it remains uncertain when we can achieve the budgetary surplus that will enable us to operate somewhat substantially counter-cyclically in the event of a subsequent crisis. After all, there are many things that can be pointed out that could cost us a lot more in the near future. First of all, these are matters where our austerity seems to have gone through and where money will have to go now or soon. There are also a number of issues where not only more money is involved, but there is also a need to provide more certainty in the longer term. We have already established that this applies to the armed forces. The military not only needs to get some of the cuts back, but is now right to discuss a multiannual perspective: more certainty in terms of spending. Something like this, I think, applies to the municipalities. There are many tasks that have been laid down, so there is a lot of money to go to, and solutions to the excessive cuts have to be found. However, the municipality also complains about the unpredictability of the Empire. This is sometimes about the system of stairs and stairs together, sometimes about the changes in the models used for the Gemeentefonds and often about all kinds of adjustments. There too, according to the protest of 234 municipalities last week, there is a need for more certainty in the longer term, and hence more money. Does the Minister see the possibility of allocating funds for certain items of expenditure for longer periods than for one financial year, for example for the Community Fund? For the municipalities, and indeed for the provinces, the situation would, of course, be very different if the tax area of these authorities were to be increased. Does the Minister still have that wish in the planning? After all, it has been cherished and worn by almost everyone for a long time. There will need to be more investment in justice. The police, the state's attorney's office and the judiciary aren't doing well. There is too little capacity everywhere and there is an increase in scale everywhere. That does not always happen in a way that makes sense to the public. A court of law, Leeuwarden-Arnhem, does that make any sense? In Belgium, the districts of the courts at first instance are similar to the provinces. Small provinces and even the German-speaking community also have their own arrondissement. Why can't we do that? Gas extraction in the Groningen earthquake area has been reduced to 30 million cubic metres. Because of the ongoing earthquakes, we will have to bring it back to 20 million cubic metres, or perhaps even further. That's close to $2 billion. In addition, there is the additional effort needed to make up for our delay in replacing fossil fuels with renewable fuels. The ever-expanding chaos in the world is also gonna cost us some. We are, of course, getting costs for reception, but also for all kinds of more or less clever agreements and measures to keep refugees out of the door, to guard the external borders and to promote peace beyond those external borders. These costs, of course, cannot yet be calculated. In short, there are many reasons to assume that we will have to spend more money than we are now taking into account. In addition to the things that come over us from outside, it is mainly about spending that may be more useful to the Dutch commonwealth than the measures now planned that benefit individual working taxpayers. These measures encourage consumption, but do not generate direct employment. They are actually more focused on stimulating additional labour supply than on additional labour demand. They therefore penalise those who do not want or cannot provide additional labour, such as the elderly, the sick, the unemployed and those who opt for more time for the family. Is it wise to spend this 5 billion on a privilege for the working part of the nation, rather than looking first at a number of urgent social needs, or first working on a balanced budget? That's how Germany does it! In that case, we will have opportunities if all these other claims are over our heads or if we are against the tide again. The Minister himself spoke of this in a speech at the TATRA SUMMIT in Bratislava. About the importance of our social systems he said: "People feel that the austerity and reform agendas detail a loss of social rights. This is the key concern." About the usefulness of a balanced budget, he said: "It is there of utmost importance that our public budgets have the capacity to deal with economic shocks. Come what may, it remains our duty to ensure our public budgets contain a buffer capacity. This requires using the good times to deliver, to bring down our public deficits when we can. And in the event of a shock - this buffer will allow us to use sovereign debt as an extra insurance against economic setbacks." I totally agree with both of them. So I know the Minister agrees with me, but I'd like to hear him explain it himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u66	Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u67	I call the Minister for Finance. Oh, now I forgot the button, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u68	Mr. Chairman. Thanks for the button. Thank you to the members of the Chamber for their input and for the many comments and questions I will answer as best I can. I will take a number of themes together, because otherwise we will go on until deep into the night, I fear. Let me also begin by congratulating the three Members who made their maiden speech: Mr Van Rooijen, Mrs Teunissen and Mr Rinnooy Kan. It is only humble to hear the impressive resumes of those members. The same applies to Mrs Teunissen. I will deal with the subject-by-matter question. First of all, I will make a number of comments about the economy in the Netherlands and internationally. Then there's the budget. Then a number of specific expenditure categories and underlying departmental budgets. Then Europe and finally the financial sector. Don't ask me why the order is like this, but that's how it is. I think it makes sense to start with the economy, because this is the framework within which we work in designing the Millions note and budgets. How are we looking at the economy right now? The Dutch economy is attracting a lot of attention. The recovery is wide. In other words, consumer spending, investment and exports have developed well. Of course it goes back and forth every quarter, but over the year it looks good. The economic recovery is also expected to continue for next year in the various estimates we have. For the world economy, and hence world trade, forecasts have been revised several times during the year. The uncertainty about economic reforms in China is a factor here, as well as uncertainty about monetary tightening in the US and a possible interest rate decision in December. That's also a factor that's working through. At the same time, I believe that, in the longer term, China's economic reforms are the right ones. There are always risks in a transition process as one must go through now, with regard to the way in which these reforms are managed. China still has great economic potential. The same applies to the risk of US monetary policy. The extent to which this leads to negative reactions is crucial to how it is implemented and communicated. All this is incorporated by the CPB in estimates which are adjusted. That's the environment we work in. This means that, despite the favourable developments in the Netherlands, we have to take this into account, and we do so. Questions have been asked about this by the groups of the CDA and the Christian Union. They have also specifically asked about developments in China, and I have spoken about this. These can also have an impact on the euro area. The recovery of the euro area economy is also wide. All the countries in the euro area are back on a growth path, except Greece, but I will deal with that separately later. All countries are back in the growth zone, ranging from 3.5% to almost 4% in Ireland, 3% to 3.5% in the Baltic countries and 1% to 1.5% in Italy and France. In France, it also attracts something in the last quarter, but the growth rates are not so strong. We are, of course, dependent on our exports. As is often the case, the economic recovery in the Netherlands stems first of all from the restoration of our export position. This has been the case in recent years. That's a common pattern after a crisis. A critical question has been asked about the trade surplus which, in the opinion of the SP, would be too large. Mr Van Apeldoorn has asked for my response. The Netherlands' structural, large trade surplus indicates a structural recess, but this is not really the case in this case. Domestic expenditure is increasing. The reduction in the burden on labour that we will be discussing in greater detail in the near future will further boost domestic spending. That's what you see in the CPB's estimate. This will put downward pressure on the current account surplus. The second element in the surplus is saving for old age. If the Netherlands will have more pensioners in the future, these savings will also be released and will lead to consumption. This will also reduce the savings surplus in the longer term. The third element is gas production. This is always a major factor in our trade balance. When gas production is reversed, as decided in several steps in December, we will take further decisions on the future of our gas production, leading to increased imports of energy and smaller gas exports. This will also lead to downward pressure on the current account surplus, so the trend will be for the Netherlands to fall in the coming years. Mr Rinnooy Kan expressed concerns about japanisation, as he called it; persistent stagnation, demographically driven, with low investment and low interest rates. Nevertheless, the picture for Japan and Europe is different. The European economy is currently attracting attention. I do not therefore believe that we will end up in a period of prolonged stagnation. Interest rates are at a low level worldwide, in a large part of the world, in relation to the large savings I have already mentioned, and a limited demand for investment. I believe that the major savings in pensions due to ageing will be spent at some point, as has been said. There are high levels of household and corporate debt that we are facing from the crisis. These lead to a process of balance recovery. This is a slowdown in our economic recovery. That's what we've always known. The type of economic crisis we had was a real balance sheet crisis, not only with the government, but also with pension funds, households and banks. There is a broad process of balance recovery in the economy. You can say that we are out of the crisis, as I said before, but that process of restoring balance is still going on. This currently reduces the demand for investment. Uncertainty about economic recovery and about the global economy also reduces the demand for investment. As mentioned above, investments in the euro area are attracting attention. The recovery in the euro area is also expected to continue. I do not foresee any prolonged stagnation there. In order to avoid this risk altogether, it is crucial, as far as I am concerned, that we continue in all European countries, including the Netherlands, with structural reforms to raise our competitiveness and productivity to a higher level. That's gonna trigger new investments. That is crucial to further remove the threat of stagnation, to use Mr Rinnooy Kan's words.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u69	It is always good to meet an optimistic finance minister, although you would suspect that from this metier there is a tendency to look at the world rather than cheerful. My question about'secular stagnation' was prompted by a number of phenomena which are quite worryingly similar to what has happened in Japan. One of the most important indicators is the phenomenon of low real interest rates. There is no denying that real interest rates, adjusted for inflation, are incredibly low in Europe. At some point you cannot escape the concern that the process of stagnation will manifest and ask for a response. So I have two questions for the Minister. First of all, I would like to ask him when he would be worried if he wasn't now. Will he be delivered when we're two or three years ahead and interest rates are still so low? Or does he actually think that's an irrelevant variable? My second question is in the same context of optimism versus what one might call realism. Could the Minister say a little more about how he looks at the disappointing growth rates we have received over the third quarter? These figures support the idea that the situation is not improving, but rather deteriorating. Should they not be invited to look again at budgetary policy for the coming years, as requested by one of the other First Chamber members?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u70	The discussion about secular stagnation or persistent stagnation has been sparked by Lawrence Summers, but that was one and a half to two years ago. The situation in the euro area is really improving. Growth has returned in all countries over the past year and growth rates are steadily increasing. In some countries they increase faster than in others. In doing so, there is a striking correlation between the amount of structural reforms that countries have implemented, whether forced by a programme or not, and the economic recovery. Part of this is recovery growth, after a period of deep crisis. But another part shows that the structural reforms have given these economies new resilience, provoked investment again and reduced foreign investment to these countries. Ireland, Spain and Portugal are interesting examples of the renewed dynamism and investment that has been made. This shows that you can gloomy and speculate a lot about this, but you can also see that it did not occur, even though it was announced two years ago by Summers in Europe. Perhaps Mr Rinnooy Kan thinks: it can still happen. I say: we know what to do about it, and that is to implement the structural reform agenda. In Europe and the euro area, a great deal of attention is paid to budgetary rules. I've had to spend a lot of time on that and I won't say anything nuanced about it. The budgetary rules are important for stability and confidence in the euro area and from the outside. But there is still a weakness in the structural reform agenda and there must be pressure on it. In the Netherlands we have a good track record on that. Some of the MPs will say it needs to be more and faster. They want to know what the next steps are. That is fine, but we do not have to blame ourselves for not doing enough on our reform agenda in recent years. The same applies to other countries. There are countries that have shown less of this and where the economic stagnation risk is greater.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u71	I hope, of course, that the Minister is right. Let me give you another indicator: the development of output gaps in European economies, for example, supports his optimism. I would almost say that I hope to meet him here in a year's time and that we can look back to his satisfaction on what has happened in the past year.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u72	I would also like to say to Mr Rinnooy Kan that it is not so much a question of looking at who is most pessimistic or optimistic. The question is whether we can properly explain the current situation and whether we know what is needed to avert risks. The risk of stagnation is there. This was first mentioned two years ago. Much has been said about this in recent years. My observation is that this is not actually happening in Europe and in the euro area. The trend is upward and economic growth is positive, more positive than we expected in the euro area as a whole a year ago. It is more interesting to ask what we have to do to avoid the risk, should it possibly still float above the market. I believe that Mr Rinnooy can and I agree on this: it requires timely reforms so that countries become more productive and therefore more competitive.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u73	I have one question that follows on from this and is also related to the optimism of the Minister. In itself, that optimism is of course good news. If it is indeed justified, one might imagine that the whole discussion about QE, with a good Dutch word, has become less relevant and that the need to pursue the policy that Draghi is conducting is at least decreasing. Let me put it this way. Would the Minister still like to reflect on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u74	I would still be on this subject, but I am now doing it as l'improviste. Monetary policy has been very accommodating. It wasn't just in the Netherlands. In Japan it is much more accommodating. In the United States QE 1, 2 and 3 have been done. Some say: Europe has done too late. Some say that it is not actually effective yet and it should be continued for longer. My observation is this: QE supports the economic recovery. Whether it should continue any longer, I find a decision to be taken later by the central bankers. I am quite precise: I think it is extremely undesirable, even in the euro area, when politicians decide what central bankers should do in their areas. I am also paying attention to this in the Eurogroup. My main concern is for politicians to sit back when monetary policy is accommodating. My concern is that politicians will then start thinking: we will postpone the difficult reforms and the far-reaching measures that we have to take and which are on our plate, because President Draghi will accept our recovery. It's always temporary. It's gonna wear off at some point. There are also risks and it has adverse effects, such as low interest rates. We all don't have to say that to each other, because we know that. So use the accommodating policies of the ECB to take steps quickly, so that you do not remain dependent on them. That would be my move.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u75	Mr Hoekstra, will you wait for the Minister to speak?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u76	Am I to understand that the Minister is going to say more about this in a moment? Well, then, I'll wait and see.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u77	Then we'd do it twice. This was now my answer; I am not going to say that again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u78	Mr Hoekstra, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u79	Then it is good to be a little more precise, and to understand better what the Minister means. I fully understand what he is saying about the independence of Draghi and his colleagues. That seems to me to be a very sensible idea. It is also understandable, however, that the Dutch Parliament expects the Minister of Finance to indicate what he thinks of that policy. Can I paraphrase what the Minister has said so far as follows: at the moment he thinks it is sensible what the ECB is doing and what happens later, he will see later? Is that what the Minister says?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u80	There is a complicated dilemma here. When all politicians decide whether or not they consider the policy of the independent ECB to be desirable, political pressure will naturally arise. Of course I have a view on it and I follow it, including in its effects. But what I am sure is that a number of structural measures, which we as politicians have taken and still have to take, will have a more structural and long-term effect than accommodating monetary policy. Accommodating monetary policy can temporarily support the economic recovery, for example if you come out of a crisis. It is often said that the economic recovery in the euro area did not begin until QE was launched. My point is that that's not true. It started when we went through the banks and recapitalized the banks, at the start of the banking union. Then, for the first time, large investors came back to Europe with large investment amounts and started investing in the European banking system. That was the start of the economic recovery in the euro area. That was politics of politicians. I'm not saying that to beat us on the chest. We did it too late. We should have done it a long time ago. My point, however, is that we should not think that the structural recovery will come from monetary policy. That's my point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u81	I had another question in connection with Mr Rinnooy Kan's previous remarks on secular stagnation and, in conjunction with that, the risk of continuing low inflation or deflation. Apparently, the Minister is less concerned about this than some others. It's not just Lawrence Summers who's worried about that. Although the Minister is less concerned about this, he is right to note that in the Netherlands we are still in the process of restoring the balance sheets. He notes that it was a balance recession. Are we not still working on this and it does not seem to be so difficult, because we in the Netherlands have at the same time tried to restore the private and public balance sheets? Is it not very difficult for the private sector to restore its balance sheet if, at the same time, the government is trying to restore its own balance sheet, i.e. the budget, and therefore opts for a substantial reduction in the budget deficit? In connection with this, I have a second question. I would like to come back to the low inflation and the Dutch large surplus on the current account. The Minister says that this is going to work itself out, or that at least the surplus will go down. If the Netherlands had now used earlier to increase domestic spending, to raise wages and to stimulate inflation, the current account surplus in the Netherlands might have fallen earlier and could have given the southern countries of the euro area some air. Then the situation would have been different, for example in Greece and Spain. Maybe the minister can still reflect on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u82	The first question was whether it is not complicated to do both the public and the private side of balance sheet recovery at the same time. I would like to point out that one of the things that has been very damaging to the public is that so many of the private risks have been placed on the public balance sheet, particularly in the case of bank rescue. Banks have been bailed out all over Europe, saved with public money. This has led to a huge increase in the public debt of countries throughout Europe. That public balance sheet is therefore greatly increased by taking over private risks, something that cannot be repeated. You could have chosen to push back all the risks and say: we speed up the public balance. Then the bill would have gone all the way to the private side. So there has really been a trade-off, only here is the problem that if your balances are all on red, putting it even further in red to strengthen the other balance is obviously not really a solution. What is happening now is that governments gradually restore their balance sheets. Mr Van Apeldoorn may think that this is too fast or too rough, or feels that the bill is being misplaced, but governments are gradually re-establishing their balance sheet. Yes, we now inevitably expect that from households, we also expect banks to strengthen their balance sheets, and so on. I do not think it was a choice to draw all this to the government, which would have completely out of control in the past few years of crisis. That is, of course, partly what I said about the state debt as well, but I do not think it was a real option to do that much more, so as to relieve the private side as it were and to clean up the private balances at the expense of the state; not for the Netherlands and for many other European countries at all. They would have just gone bankrupt. That is the situation we are in. The question is, of course, much more interesting as a result of which this problem has arisen. It wasn't caused by the crisis. It originated in most countries before the crisis. Those balances were already out of control, they were already extremely vulnerable. Household debt in some countries was already very high. The balance sheets were already very weak, all before the crisis. We need to realize how to prevent that next time. Yes, that also applies to the Dutch budget, but I will come back to that in a moment. We talked about inflation. Of course, this is also simply a factor of very low commodity prices. This is linked again to part of the economic downturn in China, but also to very low energy prices, which have had a persistently depressing effect on inflation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u83	Mr. Van Apeldoorn. Can you keep it short?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u84	Yeah, I'll be very brief. I do not think I have yet heard an answer to my second question on the possibility of reducing the surplus in the Dutch current account earlier and whatever this would have meant for the euro area. Perhaps the Minister would like to answer that question. Several economists have also argued earlier not only for a more expansionary fiscal policy in the Netherlands but also for higher wages and in that sense also for more inflation. Recently, this was advocated by...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u85	I had asked briefly, Mr Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u86	... former ECB President Trichet. I'd like the Minister's response. Mr President, I shall leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u87	I have mentioned a number of factors that specifically determine the Dutch current account surplus and what the expectations are in the coming years. Bringing pension funds to consumption rather does not strike me as prudent policy. We should have turned off the gas crane earlier with the wisdom of today. That would also have helped to reduce that surplus earlier. Boosting more investment of pension funds in Europe or in the Netherlands has also been the policy of the cabinet, and this is happening, perhaps not at the rate we want it to be, but pension funds are now doing remarkably more than a few years ago. That's in our intentions, too. The 50PLUS group also asked for the impact of the ECB's policy on pension funds. How are they affected by low interest rates? This in principle reduces interest rates and thus has an upward effect on inflation. For pension funds, the low interest rate is of course an external one. At low interest rates, the cost of pension funds increases. It also leads to a lower return on savings. In general, inflation of around 2% is important. Wages and prices don't go down easily. Smooth wage and price adjustments are good for economic dynamism. Inflation reduces real wage costs and prevents adjustment through lower employment. I also think it is in the interests of the elderly to support economic dynamism in this way. Moreover, I believe that Secretary of State Klijnsma also sent a letter to the First Chamber on 9 November on the effect on pension funds of the persistently low interest rates. The cabinet will continue to monitor the development of interest rates, each on its own responsibility. This is also a discussion that will naturally come back when we talk about the future of our pension system, a discussion that this cabinet will continue. We have already sent a headline note to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u88	What I did not find in the main note, and not in the Millions Note, where five pages are rightly devoted to pensions, is just the debate on calculation rates, the discount rate. Is the cabinet willing, also given various signals from this house, to look at that as well?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u89	I have to dig into my memory now. We've had this discussion here before. Then I promised you that I would have the Dutch Bank look at this again. The Dutch Bank has looked into it. I should actually say that I should have the Dutch Bank look again at whether this is the right system and whether it is wise for the longer term. But I fear that we may then come back from the previous discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u90	Of course, that would not be the intention. I do not think it is important for the Dutch Bank to look at a system of a risk-free market rate of 20 years-plus. In fact, that's where your problem of discounting begins. I believe that the PvdA Group is not alone in this house. Given the investment policy of the funds and their returns, risk-free market interest rates as discount rates might unnecessarily make things more serious than they are. So the question would be whether we could ask the Dutch Bank or any other company to take a fundamental look at an appropriate discount rate and not necessarily a risk-free market rate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u91	I'm just reminding you of the discussion we've had about the ftk. We have seen together that our pension funds, which we are proud of and have always said we have the best pension system in the world, were vulnerable in times of crisis in their systems and even that there were procyclical reactions, also because of the way in which we set up our policies. We have now said that in the event of external shocks such as falling interest rates, pension funds will have more time to absorb these shocks. As a result, there is less time to buy. At the same time, we have said that indexing can only be carried out after reasonable recovery. Of course, there's a balance between those two. If you say you want to keep the first part but not the second part, because you want to be able to absorb it quickly again, then I'm afraid we're losing the balance in the whole new ftk. So that is indeed a fundamental discussion that breaks the whole discussion about the design of the ftk again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u92	Finally, Mr Postema, Mr Van Rooijen, then Mr Rinnooy Kan and then Mr Hoekstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u93	I suggest you consider that there is a balance of interests underneath.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u94	It's a big deal with 3 million pensioners in our country. The ftk discussion was an extremely valuable and good discussion for the Labour Party when it comes to prudent management of our pension system. What turned out to be non-negotiable and to which I do make an appeal, is to question discount rates with each other. That has nothing to do with the balancing act, which has to do with the fact that the discount rate does not, to our liking, maintain a relationship with the actual course of events. The actual investment policy diversifys multiple portfolios of pension funds. That would be my call. I do not know which way it is going, although I have a hunch, but I would like to see it examined as such.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u95	Mr. Chairman. I would like to join with Mr Postema in his speech. That is what he has argued before in this Chamber. The risk-free interest rate is a technique that is fixed as a kind of mantra or chiseled in concrete. There's no one to argue with. I've been there for five years. If something is no longer negotiable in the Netherlands, it is reconsidering the risk-free interest rate. I'm not gonna dwell on it for long. A few years ago, Mr Rinnooy Kan was behind me, pointing out the procyclical effect of risk-free interest rates: as interest rates fall, pension funds' liabilities are rising and the chances of indexing are falling dramatically. This has a very bad impact on the economy. The Minister wrote yesterday in the answers to our questions that he wants to keep an eye on interest rates. That is already an opening, but I would actually like to ask him whether he is prepared to take this seriously and offer an opening in this respect, after the debate on the FTC. Mr Hoekstra spoke about it in depth at that time. Surely we can rethink the consequences of decisions we have taken before? When the Pension Act was amended, when we stepped away from the fixed interest rate, no one anticipated the interest rate at that time was 4% and it went to 5% that the interest rate would go down profusely. Now it's 1.5%. The Minister just said that there should be no too quick indexing, but there has been no indexing for eight years and no indexing for the next ten years either.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u96	I leave the latter on Mr Van Rooijen's behalf. There's a lot of speculation about it, but it can't be done at all. Mr Van Rooijen says that it is not a matter of stopping thinking. I have to agree with him. That's always my attitude. I would be happy to continue the debate on this subject, but let us then do so in the presence of Secretary of State Klijnsma, for example on the basis of a letter more fundamentally. The mind shouldn't stop. I am not blind or deaf to criticism either, but I do consider, contrary to what some have just said, that the debate has already been held. A new FTK has been designed, which refers to that balance sheet. We must also look at future generations. I would like to bring that up, because we have not yet discussed the importance of future generations, but we must. Perhaps Mr Rinnooy Kan will do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u97	I like to speak in the interests of future generations. To the disappointment of the first two speakers, who regularly referred to the broad support for their position in this Chamber, I would like to emphasise that D66 is very much in favour of the current approach and that we welcome the fact that DNB plays the role it plays in its position as an independent self-employed person. Thinking never has to stand still. Fortunately, this is a good time, because on 8 December, at the initiative of the Committee on Social Affairs and Employment, Secretary of State Klijnsma is in our midst to speak exactly about this. I invite the other Members to attend. Perhaps even the Minister is prepared to attend, because I agree that this is an important subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u98	If the Chamber invites me, I'd be happy to be there. I'm that humble, if my schedule allows it. It is also my intention to start the debate and not to block it, but we have already made an important assessment of the new FTK. I and the cabinet should not be blamed for standing up for that. If the time has already been organized, I think it would be logical to continue the debate with the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u99	Mr. Chairman. I'll put one more part in Mr. Postema's basket. The Minister states that he is going to think more closely about this, whether or not with the Secretary of State. I would like it if the accounting rules of IFRS were taken into account, because in that context, a better accounting rate is applied to pension funds than to insurers. In my opinion, however, Dutch practice is different. The Minister does not need to comment on it now, but if the cabinet is going to consider it further, I think it would be useful if this point were taken into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u100	I agree with Mr Hoekstra on the difference between insurance companies and pension funds. Insurance companies do not have tough liabilities and pension funds, because they are allowed to cut short but they have to work at a lower accounting rate than insurers. I would like to thank the Minister for considering the matter further. In response to Mr Rinnooy Kan's remark: 50PLUS is also for a good pension for our children and grandchildren. I told it once and again in hearings three years ago. Indexing is good for pensioners and also for our working children. Not indexing is much more harmful for workers than for the elderly, as they build up a non-indexed pension. That has been the case for seven years, and it is still going on for a long time. We stand up for our children and for workers, so that they get a good pension.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u101	A word on Mr Hoekstra's comments. He's marked that issue now, too. We are taking this with us in our preparation for the debate already planned in early December in the Committee on Social Affairs and Employment. Mr De Grave spoke about structuralally sound public finances and the need to continue with reforms. He then fills that out by focusing on reducing the size of the collective sector, because only then will it be sustainable. That's not necessarily right, I'll give it to you. It's not like it's gonna have to be less and less. It would greatly reduce public support for policy if the message were to be sent to our citizens: what we have collective provision for, for example, education, care, and public transport, will become less and less sustainable. I do not believe that this is necessarily the direction. There are also other ways to make things sustainable, for example by making our economy stronger. The financing of the various collective schemes................................................................................................................................................................................ The latest CPB figures indicate a sustainability surplus at the moment. This means that current collective provisions at the same tax burden will continue to be accessible to future generations. That is the current state of affairs. The CPB has pointed out that a high risk is the cost of health care. Mr De Grave mentioned them, too. The current government policy has been successful in reducing the growth of healthcare expenditure significantly, including on the cure side. That's where the hardest part was. Minister Schippers has done so by making many agreements with sectors. The nature of these agreements is that they are, by definition, temporary and must always be renewed. That's vulnerable. Underlying is also a constant pressure to increase healthcare expenditure due to new technological developments or societal desires. Healthcare expenditure remains an important issue in the coming years. The Christian Union has also talked about the importance of continuing new reforms, addressing the challenges; those were the literal words. As far as we are concerned, this also applies to the pension system. In the main note of the cabinet, a discussion is initiated about the average system and the nature of the pension agreement. This is a major reform process that should not be underestimated. This cabinet is probably not going to finish it anymore, but we are going to do a lot of work on it. In this respect, the cabinet simply continues with the reform agenda. Several groups have called for attention to be paid to unemployment, particularly long-term unemployment and the issues that need to be done and done. Is there enough effort? After the contraction years 2012 and 2013, the economy recovers. The reforms we have undertaken in those years are beginning to bear fruit in a wide range of areas. This is reflected in household spending, investment by companies and exports, but as always when the economy comes out of a crisis, employment reacts with delay. The fall in unemployment is also slowing down, partly because there is a new labour supply of people returning to the labour market. That too is a well-known phenomenon when the economy comes out of a crisis. In the third quarter unemployment continued to fall by 12,000 people. Job growth is, of course, higher, 33,000. This brings total job growth to 148 000 in the last six quarters. We continue to work to reduce unemployment. On the one hand, we do so through general economic policy. I am talking about the 5 billion and the design of that package, which focuses heavily on the tax burden on workers. Employers also receive a financial contribution to make it more attractive to hire low-income people or older benefit recipients, who are relatively often long-term unemployed. That too is part of the 5 billion package. Furthermore, of course, we have the Participation Act and the Jobs Agreement Act, which will increase the opportunities for people who are lagging behind in the labour market.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u102	I would like to thank the Minister for an overview of the measures. Of course, theoretically, there's always such an after-life effect. That is well known and will now be a performance. The blessings on the labour market that the minister just mentioned, the jobs that have been achieved, are mainly temporary and flex jobs. That's been investigated. Is that the image the Minister has of an attractive labour market? Should we seek refuge in this type of job? That's where the profits come in?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u103	No. I don't support the theorem either. Mr Ester talks about blessings, but I'm just giving the bare facts. I'm not prettier than it is. Unemployment is too high and its decline is too slow. I'm just giving the facts, not selling them as a blessing to this Chamber. I'm not here to talk sales.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u104	That's not what I mean at all. You misunderstand my words.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u105	I thought I heard an intonation in the word "blessings." That said, I'm less negative about that type of job. You're referring to an investigation. Maybe I should get that, 'cause I don't know what research that is. Undoubtedly, part of job growth will come from flex jobs in all kinds of varieties. They are part of the employment situation in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u106	I am referring to the third quarter that you yourself refer to, according to the CBS figures. CBS picked that out last week. The biggest growth appears to be in the type of jobs we are talking about. These are not really the jobs that the Netherlands is looking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u107	I do not agree with Mr Ester on the latter. For new entrants to the labour market, a flex job or a temporary job is simply an opportunity to get started. At a later date, this may result in a permanent job or a long-term contract. Let us not throw away all these jobs as worthless. I don't think anyone's been helped.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u108	Finally, Mr Ester.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u109	The figures I am talking about are not just about new entrants. You would have a point if it was mainly about young people, but it is not. It is also about other employees. They too find themselves in this type of job. That is not really a structural improvement in the labour market, with all the comprehension for the comments you make. That is not the type of jobs we are waiting for in the Netherlands, the type of jobs we need to grow.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u110	I am waiting, so to speak, for every type of job, as long as the working conditions and social rights of people are protected. It is also up to us as legislators to decide whether we believe they are sufficiently protected. In that context, I'm happy with any job. As the recovery gets stronger, employers will start to take more risks by offering people permanent contracts again. I'm sure of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u111	I would like to thank the Minister for the new figures he has given us. The point remains, of course, that there is still far too much unemployment, as the Minister himself says. Unemployment has fallen very little so far. It is precisely the group of long-term unemployed that is still large. Is the Cabinet doing enough? In fact, the Minister does not answer that question. How is it that this big tax relief operation only leads to 35,000 jobs? That is far too little, given the budget made available for this purpose. Shouldn't the cabinet be looking much more effectively for sectors in society where there is absolutely no work left, work that is necessary? Shouldn't it be investing in that? I am referring, for example, to home help, which I mentioned earlier. I am also thinking of the need to save large-scale energy in the built environment. For example, there are sectors where there is a lot of work to be done. Shouldn't the cabinet focus much more on creating economic opportunities and jobs in these sectors?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u112	Apart from the initiatives mentioned by Mrs Vos, which are valuable and need attention, I am convinced that the great growth in jobs will really arise in the market. That's what I'm saying as a Social Democrat. This is just the facts of our economy. This is how our economy works: it will be. We therefore need to ensure that the economy is fully integrated, that business investment is re-enabled and that companies are re-enabled. In all honesty, the government is currently a shrinking sector. That's right. At the same time, it may recover slightly as we get more room in the budget, but in some sectors it will not be in the size of the crisis. We are also taking the initiatives mentioned by Mrs Vos. Energy policy is investing a great deal in the coming years. Sustainable energy is a sector of economic growth. Many companies take their jobs out of wind energy or solar energy. This is all happening, but if Mrs Vos is in favour of putting the 5 billion in jobs actually paid by the government, it is not in line with the economic approach of the cabinet. The cabinet is convinced that we achieve the most by stimulating the economy in a broad sense. For that we have a palette of instruments. Most employment growth will really come from the private sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u113	Nor do I argue that the 5 billion should be entirely in government employment, but I note that the 5 billion leads to 35,000 jobs. Given the enormous unemployment, that seems to me incredibly little. So I would like to get a response from the Minister to the question of whether there could have been a better plan, so that the money is used more effectively and leads to more employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u114	The Secretary of State will undoubtedly say more about this and go into more detail about the design of the 5 billion package. We, advised by the CPB, have looked very closely at how to use this money as effectively as possible. The aim is to reduce the burden on labour. Where's the biggest problem? At the bottom of the labour market. Most of the money goes there, whether it is the reduction in working hours or the contribution to childcare costs. These are now the largest amounts in the package. As of 2017, half a billion will be released for the printing of labour costs for the recruitment of people who are lagging behind in the labour market. We have looked very closely at the design of the package, precisely in order to maximise the employment impact. During the debates in the House of Representatives, in which parties have suggested alternatives or argued for more, no golden key was put forward to allow the 5 billion to have a much greater effect. You can make the 5 billion package bigger in itself, as the cabinet always intended, for example with a VAT operation or through a slide to the local tax area. Then we could have made the EUR 5 billion operation that we are now undertaking two or three times the size of the operation. We would then have made the same type of movement: reducing the burden on labour, especially at the bottom, aimed at increasing the participation of workers. However, there is no gold key. There is no way of achieving a much higher employment effect by 5 billion. Unless, of course, Mrs. Fox gives me that!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u115	Finally, Mrs. Fox.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u116	Isn't the reason why the 5 billion package didn't make every effort to create as many jobs as possible? A large part is simply reducing the burden on citizens, to a large extent also for citizens who do not need it at all. If "work, work, work" was really the first goal, couldn't the cabinet have come to a much more effective package?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u117	No, I really don't agree with that. Increasing employment rates is the best way to bring employment to a higher level in structural terms, and that is what the package is focusing on. I will come back to the budget and to the 5 billion. Under the heading of economics, Mr Rinnooy Kan asked: where are the best opportunities for public investment and what should we focus on? The government has an innovation policy. We are to some extent selective in this, for example with the top sectors policy. At the same time, the main innovation developments are broad in business. The government cannot say in advance what exactly innovation will be successful in business. This means that the underlay of your policy must be a good investment climate, a good economic climate in which companies are being invited to invest in innovation. Another element of this layer is sufficient investment in education, science and research. You can always say that it is not enough and that more needs to be done, but in the crisis years we have kept the expenditure on science, research and education clustered at a fixed level in the Netherlands. Moreover, the Netherlands differs from many European countries, where there is evidence of savings on this issue. That has not happened in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u118	I don't want to interrupt every time, but I just want to straighten this out. To my great regret, what the Minister says is not correct. Public expenditure on scientific research has fallen in the Netherlands in recent years. The Rathenau Institute has mapped that very precisely. They have even fallen so much that there is not only a decline in relative terms but also in absolute terms. What has just happened and become visible is that scientific research in the Netherlands has never been able to cope with the blow that arose when the FES funds were withdrawn from scientific research. That blow is still palpable. It's vibrating. I wish it were true what the minister said. Even if it were true, my argument would be that the Netherlands still lacks it in relation to the countries around us. These knowledge-based economies have actually increased expenditure on scientific research, rather than keeping it stable, let alone reducing it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u119	However, what I said is correct, because I put it very precisely: the total expenditure on education and research in the Netherlands has remained constant. Public expenditure on research has indeed been affected by the lifting of the FES. I can't deny that. If you consider research to be isolated and you see FES expenditure as structural expenditure, then I would like to make the following comment. The FES expenditure was not structural expenditure. They were a significant contribution to research budgets. By definition, the FES is not a structural expenditure series. It is an investment fund with a finite nature, but let us not discuss it. As a result, public research expenditure was reduced once and for all. But I said that the total expenditure, including education, in the Netherlands was maintained during the crisis. That has been quite different in other countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u120	Sure, but in the distribution the research has had to leave a spring relatively. That was my point. This should be a matter of great concern in the light of promising public investment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u121	Mr. Chairman. GroenLinks, the Party for Animals and also the SP, I think, have explicitly called for sustainability in fiscal policy. There has been talk of the ecological budget deficit. Our concept of prosperity in the narrow economic definition of gross national income and gross national product is an important concept for me. It's concrete, it's measurable, it's handy for policy. But if that were our only compass and we were merely shaping our policy on the basis of how we can increase growth as much as possible and as quickly as possible, we would build a huge legacy for future generations. That's not how we're in it. That is why we have an environmental policy, we invest in nature policy and we implement climate policy. You can argue whether that is enough and whether the balance is good, but GDP is not our only measure or our only compass. For example, in the case of investment decisions by the Cabinet, a social cost-benefit analysis is now a priority. It has to be fixed. This clearly takes into account environmental damage or damage to nature.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u122	Thank you very much for your answer. The Minister states that GDP is currently the measure we use. These are, by the way, my words; the Minister does not say that literally. But everything shows that GDP is still a dominant measure in the Millions Note. However, I have just called for this to be considered in its entirety, so that the current crisis can be seen in conjunction with this. It would have been a huge opportunity to green our tax system and thus tackle the crisis and pollution in full. That's a missed opportunity. I do not see in the Millions Note any possibility of tackling the most urgent problems, such as climate change, in a structural, effective way. I see no alternative to the greening of the Tax Plan. Since I do not see that again, what opportunities does the Cabinet see for tackling, for example, the urgent problem of climate change in a structural and effective way?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u123	First, I would like to make a comment on greening and then on climate change. With greening, the Netherlands has started as one of the first countries. In many respects, therefore, we are ahead of other countries, such as the greening of the tax system. But the rack, even if you look at competitive conditions, is getting smaller at some point. The Secretary of State will say more about that in a moment. Having said that, our tax proposals are greening. In the letter of amendment that was sent after all discussions with different parties in the Lower House, there is another big greening. It's about big and small subjects. So that development continues. We look at what is effective and desirable. Then climate...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u124	Mrs Teunissen, go ahead, but please be brief.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u125	Perhaps the Minister could comment briefly on the expected effectiveness of the measures. He points to other countries, but in reality other countries around us are a lot further away from tackling the climate problem. Look at Germany, for example. The Minister may say that we are ahead of fiscal measures, but their effectiveness is still quite disappointing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u126	That could be. Let me move on to this question, because it is more about the type of greening that we are taking. Mrs Teunissen says: we are still behind, look at Germany. Germany has given a huge and, moreover, very costly boost to renewable energy, not through the tax system but, as I see it, just with a subsidy system. Now I'm not super-expert, but I think this is what has been done in Germany. It's invested a lot in that. The Netherlands is lagging behind with renewable energy. We realize that, too. We are now making a huge catch-up, including through the use of the SDE funds. That really is a huge amount of money. We are going to commit 6 to 10 billion in the coming years to all investments in the field of renewable energy from these SDE funds. So the Netherlands is catching up. I cannot hide the fact that we have not really been at the forefront of renewable energy in recent years. That has been a motivation for me to commit myself to the energy agreement, which some of us are critical of. My analysis of why the Netherlands has been so behind in the field of renewable energy, energy saving and so on is the constantly changing policy of changing Cabinets. We must once and for all pursue a policy of sustainable energy and energy saving. After all, if you want people to invest in it, they must have policy security. And if there is one thing that has been lacking in this area in the Netherlands, then the policy security is for potential investors. We hope that the energy agreement will provide that security for a longer time. At least the resources are available. In the coming years, private investors with the support of the Dutch government will make a big catch-up on this point. Let's talk about climate...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u127	Finally, Mrs Teunissen, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u128	I note briefly that I will look critically at whether the measures mentioned by the Minister are sufficient to counter what could have been a good greening of the tax system.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u129	This is an announcement of the way in which Mrs Teunissen is about to look at this. I suppose I don't have to respond to that; it's more of a warning in advance. Mrs Teunissen's second question was on climate finance. The Paris conference is, of course, very important for this. Climate finance will then be a major issue. At the IMF annual meeting in Lima, we had a separate meeting. Almost all finance ministers were there to talk about climate finance. We have indicated how the Netherlands has increased climate finance spending year after year in recent years and that this will also be the case in the coming years. At that meeting, the Netherlands was one of the few countries that specifically "pledgede', as it is called, promised and specified in concrete terms what amounts it would make available for climate finance. That's 100 billion. By 2020, we have to make that promise. So the Netherlands does. We are, of course, receiving a lot of criticism in the Netherlands: too late, too slow, too little, but internationally we are still at the forefront of this kind of thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u130	The minister just mentioned the concept of prosperity. He indicated that he wants to look more broadly than only the gross national product, although that is the measure for him. My question was whether he is prepared to look at the sustainability of public finances in a really more fundamental way, for example by considering what impact climate change can have on the sustainability of public finances now and in the future. Is he prepared to ask the question, along that measuring bar, whether we are doing well financially?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u131	I am certainly prepared to look at what climate change and the phasing out of fossil fuels will mean, not only for the international economy, but also for international investment, the financial sector, and public finances. I have promised this in part in the House of Representatives, but here I say it to Mrs Vos. We must also prepare ourselves in good time on these aspects of economic and financial stability, provided that they arise from real sustainability issues. I certainly do not close my eyes to that. In particular, the question of the future or the non-future of fossil fuels and what that will mean for the economy, investment and the financial sector is very important at the moment. I also asked DNB for additional advice on this. Together with the cabinet response we send that advice to the First Chamber. That's what I'm telling you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u132	Thank you very much for that. I have another supplementary question. Is the Minister also prepared to consider, from this point of view and on the basis of a risk assessment, what investments or financial measures should be brought forward in order to reduce precisely the risks that may indeed arise in the future? Does the Minister link it with a financial analysis that gives an insight into when what kind of measures lead to an optimal result?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u133	I can see the question, but the consequences of an answer may not be.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u134	The question follows my quote from Minister Bos, one of your predecessors. He said sometimes it's much more effective to make investments right away instead of waiting and letting it go. He said it was cheaper. That seems to me to be an important point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u135	Unfortunately, that is not always the case. Sometimes it can be really wise to postpone an investment in energy saving and do so ten years later, because there are always a lot of efficiency impacts in the development of technologies. Then you can take a much bigger step forward with the same euro. Despite that, sometimes you have to do something right away. I say this in order to reassure Mrs Fox. That is the case if you do not have time to wait for yet another technological improvement and yet another efficiency gain. Let me say in general terms that the cabinet will respond to the risk analysis that DNB makes in the first place. It will address the risks to sustainable public finances and how to deal with them. It seems to me that Mrs Vos' question is in a general sense: once you face the risks, what are you going to do about it? We shall also answer that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u136	Can I ask Members to give the Minister the opportunity to continue his reply?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u137	A good debate is worth something, Mr President. Finally, a question has been asked about start-ups and the locational environment under the heading of economy. As Mr Rinnooy Kan knows, Mrs Neelie Kroes is a'special envoy' for this. I didn't come up with the name, but well, it means something like an ambassador, although that might be too old-fashioned for this dynamic world. Mrs. Kroes does that fantastic, really fantastic. That must be said at some point. Recently I talked to her about the development of FinTech start-ups, i.e. the many technological developments surrounding payments and the financial sector. Some see it as a great threat, others as a great opportunity, but that's always the way it is with new technologies. The work of Mrs Kroes and her team is paying off. The Netherlands and Amsterdam are increasingly high on the international rankings regarding the start-up climate. I believe that our most important competition is now coming from Berlin or that we have just passed Berlin. Berlin is now going to invest extra to get through Amsterdam again. So there is a huge battle going on to bring this type of activity to countries. You don't have to compete with each other, but maybe a little competition isn't wrong at all. In the budget for the coming years, we have made additional funds available for this. So it's an important theme. I really need to get to the budget now, which is the main point of today's budget debate. Firstly, what lessons have been learned from the crisis and whether the cabinet has done the right things? They also asked why the Netherlands has come out of the crisis so slowly and what the government has done wrong in policy. I'm taking out two elements. Because we can talk about this for hours. To the question of why the Netherlands has come out of the crisis so slowly, I honestly answer that the crisis did not happen to us. It was not caused by all kinds of external factors, such as the euro and the financial sector that was in trouble in America, but by the neglected structural problems in our economy. It's that simple. We had an extremely fragile housing market, in which changes were necessary, but have always been postponed, and a pension system in which procyclical elements created additional vulnerability. In addition, care costs increased by 5% to 7% a year, even in the years when economic growth was no longer in place. These were all structural issues, on which opinion pages have been written for decades in the Netherlands. If you put the articles on the necessary reform of the AWBZ in a stack, it is very high. It took us a long time to burn our fingers on it. The housing market with the mortgage interest rebate is perhaps the strongest example of this; the rental policy in part. They made us extremely vulnerable. When the crisis struck, we suffered a huge loss of prosperity in the housing market, while balance sheets were already not strong. The same applies to SMEs. The SME balance sheets in the Netherlands were vulnerable. There was relatively little equity and there were relatively many bank loans, at least much more than in other European countries. So you can also see that, in large parts of SMEs, the impact of the crisis, which is already low in equity, has hit very hard. We have had all these structural problems in our own economy. We have not dealt with them in good time. That's part of the answer. Is it wise to cut back in the Netherlands once you are in a crisis? In reply to that question, the CPB must be cited. In the first term of the Chamber, there was a debate between Members on pro-cyclicality and multipliers. The CPB has gone back to Blanchard's study on multipliers in crisis time. It did not do so again in the later years and wondered whether the conclusion of the IMF's chief economist Blanchard could still stand. The CPB says: "There is no evidence that multipliers are currently higher than before the crisis. There is no evidence that during all recent crises fiscal multipliers were higher than expected." This does not mean that austerity at the time of crises is not procyclical; of course it is. The short-term effect of austerity, certainly of the scale we have done at the time of the crisis, is procyclical. The question is how long it will take and if you could have reversed the type of crisis we have had with anti-cyclical policy. In the first years of the crisis, during Balkenende IV, a lot of extra money was spent to cope with the effects of the crisis. This has been effective in the first instance, but not in the second instance. The main conclusion of the CPB is in any event, if it also takes into account the later years of the crisis, that those multipliers are not higher than was previously expected or that the impact of the cuts has been greater than initially estimated. That is in good Dutch the conclusion of the CPB.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u138	I was looking a little tormented at Mr Van Apeldoorn, because I had just asked if the Minister could continue for a moment. You have to keep it short!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u139	I'll be very brief. I believe that the Minister said it well at the end: the harmful effect of the cuts is no greater than expected. But that does not mean that there has been no harmful effect. In this context, I would like to point out a reaction from Professor of Public Finances Bas Jacobs to the CPB report, a reaction that was quite critical. If the Minister responds to what has been said earlier by others, he may be able to take that reaction with him.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u140	Again, I thought I had expressed myself carefully. First, I quoted the CPB literally. At that time I said: that does not mean that cuts at the time of crises are not procyclical, because they are, but the question is to what extent. That's more than expected. We held the discussion on the basis of Blanchard's IMF publication. The impact of austerity on crises is far greater than we thought at first. That was the popular argument that the economy is being cut down. Now the CPB, looking back on the whole period: no, those multipliers are not much bigger than we thought, they are actually as big as we expected. Yes, there is therefore a negative impact on the economy in the short term, but not much larger. This latest publication of the CPB, therefore, makes the budget cuts rather relative. I can't make it any more nuanced than that. Then again, I insist that it matters very much how you cut back, where you cut back and what areas you safeguard, such as education and so on. Several members have asked about the government's underlying vision. Why this choice? In a budget, you have to weigh up many interests, but I'm gonna take two big ones out. On the one hand, especially now that there is economic recovery, we must put the budget in order. That's crucial to me. We are doing better at the moment than the budgetary path agreed in the coalition agreement. That's fine, because the recovery is now attracting. We need to use that time. As far as I am concerned, we are moving towards a balanced budget. I can't put a year on it yet, but we're just continuing that development. At the same time, we must also support the economic recovery. We must ensure that we address structural problems in our economy and in our labour market. One of these structural problems is the tax burden on labour, especially at the bottom of the labour market. There was broad consensus in both chambers in previous debates that this is a recurring, dragging core problem in the functioning of the Dutch economy. So that is what we have given priority to. When we drew up the budget, we said that we are going to do so. Our ambition, as has been said, was to do so with about 15 billion. We still had two large building blocks. This can still be done if there is spontaneous support for this. But we're not gonna let that 5 billion fall out of our hands because the scale jump to 10 or 15 billion is not gonna work right now. So that 5 billion is still important. I cast the frame of the budget as a festive budget and as a gift in election time far from me. What election? We are dealing here with a structural problem in our economy that has been on the agenda for a very long time and that we are now tackling a very targeted package of measures that will increase participation. In the short term, there is a spending package that will make a positive impact on purchasing power in the coming year. I am not to be blamed for calling again for it, even though the pressure of the crisis is gone and there are different tastes when it comes to accents, to retain the broad support that existed at the beginning of the debate in both chambers. Very, very broadly, it was said at that time that the tax burden on labour should be reduced. It must be possible to reach agreement on the tax plan in December between now and the final vote, so that we can maintain the core piece of the tax burden on labour in the Netherlands. You must excuse me, Mr President, for pleading once again passionately for this. I hope that in the coming weeks we will be able to find that broad consensus in one way or another, perhaps with the help of Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u141	In short, Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u142	Very briefly. You are talking about reducing taxes on labour. That could also be labour costs. Can you let your thoughts go on reducing employers' burdens? They have the most direct effect on labour costs. It remains to be seen whether increases in net wages are having a significant impact.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u143	It can take advantage of the participation of people in the labour market. But the short answer to your question is: yes, we are certainly prepared to do so. I leave it to the Secretary of State to zoom in on the nature and extent of the package, the letter of amendment and so on. Perhaps you could continue the debate with him on this. The same applies, moreover, to the discussion of single-earners and two-earners and the question of whether the money should go entirely to the workers or also to the elderly. I leave the discussion on the design of the burden relief to the Secretary of State, who, as we know, has been a full-time pain in his brain over the last few weeks. I come to the question of the actual deficit, which is falling, while the structural deficit is rising. The structural deficit has advantages and disadvantages. We in the Netherlands like to work with sustainable public finances, calculated by the CPB. The Commission's structural deficit is much more volatile in its assessment. The output gap, which is an important factor in this process, is thus indicated to what extent your economy still has growth potential. That makes it extremely difficult. When we started preparing the budget in early spring, it was extremely difficult for us to estimate what we would be facing in terms of structural deficit. That has actually been the case until August. That's a serious theme. I would like to say that I am prepared to talk about this in Brussels and think about simplification. The Commission itself is likely to come forward with proposals rather quickly. I'll wait for them, then I'll send them to the Chamber with a cabinet response, so we can talk about that. The complex of budgetary rules in Brussels should be simplified. That is also a point of democratic legitimacy. In that respect, that -3% was, of course, a bliss, because that percentage understood the people at home. If you were up there, it was bad. But now we are getting further and further away from that -3% and there are other extremely complex rules: an expenditure benchmark, a debt rule with a transition period and then on top of all things the structural deficit that depends on the output gap. Go explain that to the people at home, that's really impossible. I also think it is important that we, as national authorities, should be able to predict in spring what the structural deficit could be. That is extremely difficult at the moment. With all the flexibility of the Commission and on the basis of its method of calculation, we have today been lucky to hear that our budget also complies with all the European budgetary rules in the Commission's view. So we do not have an acute problem, but the structural deficit may become a bottleneck in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u144	I asked a specific question about this. The Council of State, of course, was critical and said: you may have a problem in 2017, because you will still have to make additional cuts to make up for the structural deficit because you are not doing enough. Can the Minister say anything about that? What does he expect for 2017?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u145	My problem is I can't say anything about that. Not because it is secret but because the Council of State's assumption is apparently that what the Commission is now planning for the structural deficit for 2017 will be a fixed figure. I suspect that the structural deficit between now and the drawing up of the 2017 budget in August is still moving. That is at the heart of the problem. The actual deficit is quite factual. As you spend more, it goes further out of the lead. If you save more and have more growth and more income, you'll be fine. The structural deficit is much more complicated. So I am not already going to anticipate the assumption that the structural deficit could increase in 2017 by cutting back. I'm definitely not gonna do that, because it's way too volatile for that. That's a problem we need to address.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u146	I welcome the Minister's reply. I have talked about it in detail myself. I have also given an example which shows that it is impossible. I think it is a very important standard, but it has almost changed by a full percentage of GDP in six months. You can't count on that. The question put by Mrs Vos is quite right. At the same time, the Council of State is undermining its own conclusion by pointing out that within six months it will fluctuate so incredibly. That doesn't do us any good, because then everyone will pick the number that suits him at the time. It's very important, especially if you control the normal deficit. But then we also have to have a good figure, which we know is what it is, that we can understand and that has some predictive value. I very much support the Minister. I'm pleased with his answer. We are going to continue this discussion, but I ask the Minister to consider this as a strong support in his back, precisely because it is so important that it becomes manageable for us and we can work with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u147	Yes. A simpler and more understandable criterion is the debt criterion. The debt should be up to 60% of GDP. We were, of course, shot through during the crisis, particularly through the rescue operations in the financial sector. This year's debt will fall again for the first time. We expected to shoot something ourselves up to over 70%, but we're going to 66.2% next year. That is the CPB expectation, but of course it will never be exactly that percentage. Moreover, we do meet the debt criterion. If you deviate from that, there is another timeline and a transition period. I will not go into explaining all the techniques to the Chamber, but we are back to putting the blame in order and the pace that is expected of us. Mr Hoekstra has specifically asked for the amount of 5 billion. Is that wise in the light of economic uncertainty? Why 5 billion? Why not more or less? Shouldn't money go to other things? How did we work in spring? In spring, when the budget was first prepared, the expenditure frameworks threatened to be substantially exceeded. This had to do with an exchange rate problem in the departments. "exchange rate" means that the costs in the departments are rising faster than our index. Thus, the departments are reimbursed less for price increases than they actually have to deal with. So they have to deal with a major bottleneck; the spending frameworks are getting tighter. So we first pressed that back and all the departments have solved their own problems. That is how we have been kept under the spending frameworks. We have requested additional spending space from the departments to set a number of common societal priorities. Two things that really stand out are Defense and Care. At DOD, we'll step up next year for, out of my head, 345 million. This is on top of the 150 million structuralally that we released to the Defense Department last year. So we have compensated about half of the 1 billion cuts in the previous cabinet. The second thing that jumps out is nursing care. There is a broad feeling that the quality of nursing home care needs to be improved. That's where a lot of money goes. In addition, there are a number of other priorities that have been set by the coalition or by the chamber. This means that the expenditure side is in order and that we have looked at what was possible in the context of reducing the burden on the bottom of the labour market. And, of course, with a sloping view of our budgetary rules and European budgetary rules, 5 billion has proved possible. That is how we have built up the budget and made the balance between reducing the burden and stepping up expenditure. Is it wise now? Shouldn't you be saving it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u148	You were talking about the DOD. In my contribution, I have tried to make it a little wider, given the current situation and the huge numbers of refugees. Of course, that costs money; we have to draw the wallet for that. That also means what is necessary for the budget of justice. Can you explain how you have incorporated the international, uncertain context of refugee flows into the budget? Could you also indicate how this was specifically financed by the Justice budget? That is not entirely clear to us. The same applies to the budget for development cooperation. Is that an incidental processing or is that really a structural addressing of the problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u149	Many questions have been asked about the costs of higher asylum influx and the budget of V and J. I'll get to that in a minute. I've taken note of all your questions. Otherwise, we may repeat questions, and that will take time. I'm definitely coming up with this. First of all, I would like to make a few other comments on the 5 billion. Why 5 billion, why these accents and why now? I have already explained this in sufficient detail. I have already appointed the reduction of public debt. The OSF quoted from my speech in Bratislava. I made the point that in good times we need to get our budgets in order and reduce public debt. Why? Not as a form of budgetary fetishism, but because I am convinced that there will be economic setbacks again. For that, we need buffer capacity to cope with blows, both in the budget and in debt. Before the crisis, we had one thing in order, the state debt. Because it was very low. Although this debt has almost increased to almost 70%, in other countries it went well over 100% because there was no buffer capacity in the sovereign debt. So it is our collective responsibility towards future generations to bring the debt back well in time, so that there is another buffer to deal with economic setbacks. Some people will say: austerity is bad and not social. Our largest expenditure categories are always intended for the most vulnerable people. If, as a result of a subsequent economic crisis shock, we do not have a buffer capacity, so we have to cut back on the budget, but we are unable to absorb it at all, then the first categories that are once again under pressure are benefits, pensions and care. If people are wondering what is social about putting the budget in order, I say: that is extremely social. It is precisely the most vulnerable in our society that depend very much on public support in times of crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u150	It is precisely for this reason that the question remains whether the reduction in the burden that we are now implementing is premature, especially given that the world economy may not be in order at all, so that we can see additional burdens coming on us. So what makes us take an advance on what comes next?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u151	The budget deficit and debt will be further reduced this year and next year. We're not going to deviate from that. As I said, we are ahead of the path we had planned. You can and you should. At the same time, there is economic recovery. The economy is attracting, but it is also vulnerable. I think it would be extremely unwise if the 5 billion were not to continue, because I think it is necessary for economic recovery. It is necessary to make the economy more attractive and to improve the functioning of the labour market. This is a structural effect, but it is also necessary to support economic recovery. There are people who say exactly the opposite of what Mr Ten Hoeve argues. They say: things are going very well now, why are you still giving procyclical relief? I will say: you may say 'procyclical', but you must realize that in our plans, in the basic path as called in our system, there was just another burden increase for next year. Net is therefore not a 5 billion reduction in charges. I have to explain that every time, because that's what people think, but there were also additional burdens and previously passed laws and plans ready for citizens and businesses. It's not that big of an incentive. In addition, the economic recovery is not yet so exuberant that we can speak of a high economy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u152	In this case, there is no question of reversing the burdens already announced. These are additional reliefs for certain groups of people who would not otherwise have been burdened. That argument does not seem to me to be entirely relevant.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u153	The argument is in this respect, because some say that this 5 billion reduction is unwise because of its procyclical nature. I am not saying that Mr Ten Hoeve argues this, but there are people who say: things are going so well now; why should you do it? Here's what I'm gonna say. First of all, the net amount of burden increases and reliefs is not 5 billion, but a smaller amount. Secondly, we are certainly not in a high-class economy yet, so some incentive... Finally, in response to what Mr Ten Hoeve has just said, I say that it is true that the policy previously envisaged, which is bound up with this burden, is simply being pursued. This reduction is very targeted at the bottom of the labour market, because it is an important and long-term bottleneck in our economy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u154	I'm a little surprised about this. At regular intervals, the coalition has announced burden relief as the panacea for many ailments, but now I hear the Minister of Finance mostly relativize this measure and make it smaller than he is. It's two-and-a-half. Or it is something and the Minister is quite right to be very proud of it. Or it's actually very little and then I don't understand why it's made such a great point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u155	I'm very sorry, but that's just not right. In our budgetary system, we are working with a basic path which sets out all kinds of measures that we have already taken in recent years. Legislation may have passed through this Chamber for a long time, but its effects in terms of more or less expenditure or more or less burden will naturally increase in the coming years. This applies to many measures. Mr Rinnooy cannot be surprised. D66 has supported a lot of these measures. A number of burden-aggravating measures will simply continue to be introduced in the coming years. They were all in the base path. On top of that, we are faced with the choice of whether we want to use the space that we have in the budget in the meantime, but in our opinion there is room for 5 billion in relief and, if so, how we intend to do it. We say: yes, we want to use that space. This is, therefore, on top of all the measures already in place and which Mr Rinnooy Kan knows. I see him laughing now, but he knows them very well. D66 supported most of them. So we are faced with a new choice, namely: do we want, in addition to the fiscal space that exists, to be able to see that 5 billion dollars are being deployed at the moment and, if so, in what way? We have designed a specific package for this. That is the choice we are making.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u156	So it is actually a small gift for the citizens of the country. That was the first thing that occurred to me when I heard Mr Dijsselbloem. It may not be an unwelcome gift, but its size should certainly not be exaggerated and its effect is modest in all respects.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u157	Mr Rinnooy Kan is making a real mistake of thinking. All the standing policy, which has been accepted by the Chamber, is simply rolled out and continues, unless you say now that it should be withdrawn, but I do not hear you say that. So it's just rolled out. Next, we are faced with the question of macro-level debt burden reduction and burden reduction, whether we are also making 5 billion available to citizens and businesses in order to make the bottom of the labour market work better and to further boost economic recovery. That's still $5 billion. My speech does not change that. If D66 didn't support it later and if it didn't reach the finish line, citizens and businesses would get 5 billion less burden relief. So let's not make the mistake of thinking that it's just "one decimal point so much." No, your voting behaviour, that of the President, but certainly also that of Mr Rinnooy Kansas, will also determine whether or not citizens and businesses will receive 5 billion relief next year compared to everything that is already in the pipeline. That's my argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u158	Before I give Mrs Vos the floor, I would like to point out the time frame we have. How much time do you think you need, Minister? The Secretary of State has yet to speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u159	I don't need much time, but we have an interesting debate with interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u160	I agree with you, but you don't have your pajamas with you, and maybe you don't have the rest.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u161	I happen to have it with me. I would have saved you that detail, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u162	Good. I'm just trying to keep an eye on the time. I give the floor to Mrs Vos.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u163	I just wanted to make sure I understood the Minister correctly. He constantly says that this 5 billion is largely used to make labour at the bottom of the labour market cheaper. That is how I understand the Minister's speech. I understand that's an important impulse. Now I see in the measures that 2.6 billion goes to labour for people with incomes up to €50,000 gross. That does not seem to me to be just the bottom of the labour market. That's considerably above that. Then there is another half a billion for the low-income advantage, and I do not think that will go into it until 2017. The Minister is constantly talking about the bottom of the labour market, but I think it is being applied much more widely. Then it is really the question whether that is the most effective way to create work and to support those income groups that need it very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u164	Income support is not our goal. Participation in employment is our aim. I think I did not say that it is all aimed at the bottom of the labour market. If I did say that, I'll take it back, because that's not true. An important part focuses on the bottom of the labour market. These are very targeted measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u165	Part of the problem is, after all, what the Minister is saying here. We're cutting back and those cuts are going on. We note that they pose serious problems here and there. We know, moreover, that we may get a lot more extra cost from a very different side. Nevertheless, as Mr Rinnooy Kan said, a gift is given to certain groups. Part of it is very explainable because of the necessary impact on the labour market. That is good in itself, but another part of it is mainly seen and felt as extra income for groups who may not even be waiting for it first.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u166	We can be brief about this. The question of who needs the most income support has not been the cabinet's approach to this reduction. Indeed, she really focuses on workers. The Secretary of State will say more about this when he discusses the way in which the package has been designed. These are very targeted choices and measures. I'll get on with it. A further comment has been made on the IMF. The IMF would think we have more room. I discussed this with the IMF delegation, but she could not explain it to me. Previously, in anticipation of the IMF's annual meeting, the IMF communicated that some European countries, Germany and the Netherlands, have budgetary space and need to invest more in infrastructure. After that, I spoke to representatives of the IMF. I explained our budgetary policy to them. They said 'you have no budget room' and then that point comes back. Perhaps the IMF has difficulty in following the method of calculation of us and the Commission on this point, but on top of our proposals we have no budgetary room in relation to the budgetary rules we have in Europe. I really don't see it. Some questions have been asked about cash slides. Are there criteria for that? We do know cash slides. For that there are actually only two main rules. The first is that a slide of an edition forward also means a slide of an edition backwards. Or the other way around: if you want to move an issue backwards, you can also bring up an issue, but they have to cancel each other out. The second is that it should be included under the expenditure ceilings. In each year it has to fit under the expenditure ceilings. Furthermore, we are reluctant to do it with long-term cash slides. Mr Postema asked about the purchase of Rembrandts. In particular, he asked about future dividends. The use of future non-tax revenue on that category is standard budget management. This is done on the basis of a realistic estimate, as in this case of the expected additional dividend revenues. Indeed, it is not customary to adjust the expected dividend revenue over the year. That was unique in that sense, but it was legitimate under these circumstances because the various quarterly figures we had received from our state-owned companies were remarkably much better than our estimate. There was really room here to adjust the estimate on the basis of the quarterly figures realised. I would not want to make this a standard policy, but the current economic recovery really showed that the quarterly figures for State participations were remarkably better than our estimate. This time there was a real possibility, but we shouldn't do that too often. Mr De Grave has made a more fundamental point: how can the First Chamber send an early political signal, but also say something about its financial coverage, so that this does not lead to political problems at a late stage? I'll give you an initial response. Mr De Grave wishes to discuss it further, including within the Chamber. There are two things that apply to the cabinet. Firstly, in the Netherlands, we have a good tradition that when Chambers say this is true for both Chambers, the policy must be different or other priorities must be set in the expenditure or in the burden, there are covered proposals. That makes the political proposals more serious. If there is no cover, it becomes more complicated for the cabinet to incorporate such a proposal. Secondly, there is one point in which tension can be raised. When, as in the case of the General Reviews in this Chamber, a broad majority says that it does not want or wants to have more money for the budget of V and J, it is an essential signal for the cabinet. Ideally, this comes with a widely supported proposal for coverage. That was not the case at the moment, I conclude. At the same time, the cabinet did not feel in a position to completely ignore this signal. I will be so specific when I come to speak about the budget of V and J. These are the two benchmarks for the cabinet. The wider the signal, the more serious and the sooner it comes, the more serious the cabinet can take it into account in the ongoing budgetary process. Of course, I think that the rule that proposals for more expenditure or more relief should be covered should really be maintained. I have noted that many motions have been tabled at the General Reviews in the Lower House and in the Upper Chamber without any coverage, if you will allow me as Minister of Finance this little critical remark, President. That is, in itself, a cause for concern.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u167	A Nagel motion has been accepted in this Chamber, so I feel addressed. The purpose of this motion is to move within that package, if there is a 5 billion reduction package, so that the non-employed, in particular but not only the elderly, would also receive a share of it. That motion doesn't take up any extra space. It's just a different division.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u168	Sure. That's right. That signal can always be delivered.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u169	That point is clear, but I was concerned about another case, to make it even more complicated. Suppose you're dealing with a bill that has a budgetary return, not in the context of a budget review. You can imagine different forms. A group in this House has insurmountable objections to this from the point of view of the quality of legislation, which is a typical first chamber point, which makes this Chamber say that the proposal in question cannot be done in this way. There is, however, a solid budgetary picture attached to this proposal. I would just like to share with you the dilemma of such a group. After all, the First Chamber cannot amend and therefore cannot make concrete proposals for cover. It can't be materialized. Besides, we are often at the end of the process. It's complicated. That's why I'm suggesting a tool where you signal it early. Then the cabinet might be able to do something with it. But often it doesn't come up until later. That is the point I would like to raise: how can you arrange that, should you not in any way make contact with friends in the Lower House? I'm interested in that tension field. The cabinet has now experienced this a number of times. This is less common in the Lower House because of a coalition agreement and the agreements that are there, matters that are not at issue here. If you want to give that a place, how could you do it properly as a First Chamber? I am not so much concerned with a budget as with concrete legislative proposals with budgetary implications.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u170	This is a complicated issue. In addition, the question is to what extent the groups in the First Chamber feel bound or committed to a coalition agreement. A coalition agreement sometimes announces series of legislative proposals or measures with a budgetary yield to which the Upper House is not committed. She didn't sit at the table and she didn't sign it. A second complication is next. If the First Chamber says very early that it does not want a particular bill, there will be a reversal of the law. Even before the House of Representatives has been able to deal fully with the relevant bill and have been able to vote on it, the First Chamber makes it clear in one way or another that the cabinet does not have to come to it. In our order it is of course the case that first the House of Representatives does the full treatment, with the right of amendment et cetera. Only then, when all the amendments have been voted on, can the First Chamber assess whether it wishes to do so. If the First Chamber very early indicates that it does not want such a proposal, it ignores the parliamentary process that could still take place in the Lower House. So there are a few complications.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u171	The Schalk motion was filed here early. The Prime Minister said, "Don't forget to do that when dealing with the Tax Plan." However, that would have been far too late. Now it was early. You cannot amend here, so you can only say that something must be done. This has been tried in the House of Representatives; it has been amended. There was even full coverage. I note that it is now stranded at the Central Planning Bureau. How does the Minister point that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u172	I refer that question to the Secretary of State. He led that process all the way from our side. He did the negotiations on the amendments, what the CPB thought of them and why et cetera. So I leave that to him. More importantly, the point of the Schalk motion was, of course, that it was said to the cabinet, in my own words: you need to improve the balance for the single earner. Before that, there was a majority in the First Chamber. The way in which or the answer to the question at the expense of what was going on was in that motion, I thought, I have not really referred to that motion anymore. Then you will see that there is often broad support for the desire to do something beautiful, but it is not always certain for the cabinet that there is also a broad, unanimous view on how it should be paid. Anyway, we can't fix that here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u173	We might be able to fix this here, but we're not gonna do that tonight, I understand. I'm very curious to hear the Secretary of State's answer in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u174	Mr. Chairman. I have a few more questions about the budget. Mr Postema asked for the national declaration. It is about payments to the EU budget. We are in agreement with the General Court on this discussion. The Court of Auditors keeps saying: you must also include the payments to the EU budget in your national statement. We have always argued that this has no added value. It creates a lot of administrative pressure, but no added value. The payment figures are not determined by us, but determined by the CBS and Eurostat on the basis of GNI series, imported goods in the Dutch ports and so on. It's really out of the question what the payment should be. If I have to answer for that in the national declaration, I suggest that I have made my own decision. But that's not how the system works. Having said that, I am still in consultation with the Court of Auditors. If that leads to a new position of the cabinet, I will inform the First Chamber. It's not a matter of principle from me. I also find it annoying to be faced with the General Court on this point. I am going to try to go into the arguments with the Court of Auditors to find out what its added value is.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u175	I have indicated that the contribution to Brussels is largely based on GNI. There are enormous fluctuations, which seem to be caused by primary current transfers to and from abroad. The difference between GNI and GNP is the difference between those two types of current transfers. My question to the Minister was whether he is going to do something about it, whether he is going to raise it, or whether something is going to happen to it. I believe, as I have also understood from previous letters from the Minister to the House of Representatives, that the differences we are dealing with today are unacceptable. And in our case they also go in the same direction every time, namely in the negative.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u176	I'm not sure there's been a misunderstanding here. We often have a post-tax, but the latter has indeed received an adjusted GNI rate and, as a result, a post-tax, because the figure of our payments to and from abroad has been adjusted. Why was that adapted? This has been adapted because our own institutions managing its statistics, DNB and the CBS, have been discussing for years how these figures need to be established and have always come up with different figures. They have carried out a project together and have come up with a new figure. This has led to an adjusted GNI. There is no point in having a debate on this in Brussels or in blaming other countries. Our own statisticians have looked at it together and set a new figure. This led to a higher GNI. We may find that annoying, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u177	I agree with the Minister that these figures appear to have been established in the Netherlands, although they seem to still be checked in Brussels. I am concerned that there are, apparently, large margins of error in these current transfers to and from abroad, the incoming and outgoing individual ones. So if you take the difference between that, you add a relatively small number to GDP, with a huge margin of error. So in your calculation, you introduce a huge margin of error. I cannot imagine that current transfers to and from abroad only in the Netherlands show such large fluctuations.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u178	I don't recognize that point of fluctuations. All I know is what I just said. The balance of income flows has been reviewed again in a joint investigation by the CBS and the Nederlandsche Bank, as I have just said. This had to do with the connection of the balance of payments to the national accounts. One keeps the national accounts and the other keeps the balance of payments. There were always differences between them. That problem has been solved in that joint project. That has led to an adjustment. Maybe I can come back to it in second term. I would like to be briefed on which adjustments could be meant.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u179	Can I conclude from the Minister's reply that such differences, as they have occurred in the past year, will no longer occur in this size?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u180	This correction concerns the balance sheet of income transfers to and from abroad. That really is a one-off exercise, because our two own institutions had methodical differences and so it always came up with different figures. That's settled now. This has led to a one-off correction. Other post-taxes had other reasons, such as resource revisions in all countries or a methodical change in all countries. So I cannot guarantee, at least if that were the request, that the phenomenon of post-taxation has disappeared. Mr Van Strien asked for guarantees on international loans. He talked about 152 billion in guarantees. It refers to the guarantees on the EFSM, the EFSF and the ESM. There are also guarantees on the World Bank, the IMF and the EIB. As a supervisor of these institutions, we supervise their financial policies through the Board of Governors or the Board of Directors of those institutions, so that we have a direct view of the policies and thus of the risks that are being taken, for example in the lending policy. In Chapter 9, paragraph 2.5, of our own budget, we give a comprehensive analysis of the risks by guarantee. So it is followed by category. I come to some specific categories of expenditure. I've already talked about the DOD. Expenditure on defence will be further increased in the coming years. As is well known, this is one of the priorities set by the cabinet. In two steps, we've increased defense spending by 0.5 billion. Meanwhile, we are also working on the efficiency and financial management of Defence, because there is a lot of profit to be made there. We'll make that battle at the same time, along with the Secretary of Defense. I come to the budget of V and J. The signal during the General Reviews in both the Lower House and the Upper Chamber was very clear. It was also two-fold. First of all, a large number of the legislative proposals we are preparing cannot rely on a majority in the First Chamber to make savings and thus make room for the budget of V and J. We are not going to speculate on that either. That is a problem that we must and will solve. Secondly, bottlenecks have been identified in a number of areas, namely OM, courts, the Dutch Forensic Institute, probation and police. This week we will send a letter to the Lower House and to the Upper House in which we address those risks and bottlenecks. We therefore come up with financial proposals to meet this. I don't feel free to go into that in detail right now. Mr De Grave wondered how to send a message in advance that would enable us to do something else. It worked here, so to speak. The message has arrived. We believe it is important that the V and J budget should also be brought to a peaceful conclusion. Here too, I draw a parallel with what I said about the defence budget, and it is not just the issue of austerity but also the question of financial management. The cabinet will therefore also come forward with proposals to improve the financial management and manageability of the total of the extended V and J families. That too is necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u181	I have a short question. There was just a discussion about the Schalk motion. The question was whether it was not premature in the context of the division of tasks and the changing roles of the First Chamber and the Second Chamber. However, I note now that the coalition, the cabinet has apparently decided to do so, and that the letter is coming up to celebrate the 200 million, or whatever it may be. This was done in particular by a motion by Mr Brinkman tabled in the First Chamber in good time: you do not have to come to us with anything other than what we are now asking for. Just now, with Mr Schalk's motion and with the one by Jan Nagel of 50PLUS, the Minister said: it's a bit odd that you're filing a motion without cover and you're getting way ahead of a debate in the House of Representatives. I can't quite follow that in terms of consistency.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u182	I didn't say almost everything that's being said. In response to Mr De Grave's question on how to send out early political signals, I indicated a number of possible bottlenecks, but I also said what is important for the cabinet. Firstly, it is important that motions are covered. This helps us, because then the budget stays in order. Secondly, the sooner and wider the signal is, the clearer it is for us. Those are two general theories. There are also a few procedural problems, such as: should not the House of Representatives first deal with a bill? I did not mean to say at all that the Nagel motion or the Schalk motion was premature. In fact, if you don't like the contents of such a 5 billion package and you want it to be different, then file a motion quickly so that we know in advance. I do make one comment about that, and I really do not mean that critically, but in fact I note it: exactly the same motions were also tabled during the General Reviews in the House of Representatives. A motion had been tabled stating that the V and J budget was not in order. We can now count very well in the Lower House, so we know that those same groups in the Upper House can have a blocking majority. So that was already an extremely serious signal from the House of Representatives. The same applies to the problems of the single-earners. That too was high on the agenda and sharp on the radar. We knew that would be a problem. Once again, I am not saying that the motions tabled here were therefore superfluous. It is important to have the signal from the First Chamber early. But of course the signals were already there, also from the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u183	I would like to ask the Minister about his role as Minister of Finance in the budget of Security and Justice. I asked him how he could have passed this budget. He could see that the objectives could not be achieved with the resources made available. Has he looked critically at whether this was a realistic budget?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u184	In all honesty, it was a realistic budget if the proposals for legislation had been adopted by the First Chamber. There was a budgetary return which would be partly used. However, after the General Reviews in the First Chamber, we have found that the legislative proposals are not going to make it with certainty. We had received warning signals for this before. The V and J budgets may not be able to make it if we stick to this budget either. That signal has been enough for us over the last few weeks to decide not to proceed. We could go ahead with the legislative proposals, but the budget would be in big trouble. The reason I let her pass is that our assumption during budget preparation was still that there were opportunities and that we would continue the legislative process. We are now off that trail. So we come to the Upper House with amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u185	I have two questions. The first is about the motions. Those motions were rejected in the Lower House. I understand they've been on the retina for a while, but they wouldn't have had this impact in the last few weeks' discussion if there hadn't been a very clear signal in which that was confirmed. That is not a question, by the way, but a statement. My question concerns Defense in relation to V and J. I believe the Minister said there's a good look at it in the Defense Department. I had asked if the problems in Paris would affect looking at possible additions to the defence budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u186	The short answer is no, because it would be extremely vulnerable if the answer were yes. If I were to say yes, Mr Schalk could rightly accuse the cabinet of the need for an attack to... et cetera. It's not like that. Terrorist threat is not new. Terrorist threat in Europe either. We are looking structuralally at what is needed. There's been a lot of cuts in Defense over the last few years. We believe that a repair is necessary and we are taking a second, substantial step in this respect in the coming year. In the Lower House they ask if that is enough. Of course, we don't know that. This depends on how security develops and on how the financial picture develops, because that will also be decisive.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u187	Mr Schalk, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u188	It's a good thing that first step was taken. I certainly wouldn't have talked about it in a bad way, so it's right that the cabinet should indicate that it is paying attention to terrorist threats and that it doesn't have to make any special adjustments to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u189	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u190	Mr Van Rooijen, please also briefly if possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u191	I note that the Minister says that the motions on V and J and the two-person households are being seriously taken into account. In doing so, he implicitly says that he has less attention to Nagel's motion on the elderly. That one motion is played out in the Lower House and he leaves the other. Did I just see that, or will the Minister come back to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u192	No, I'm really sorry. I really didn't say that. We have a minor communication disorder, but I am not going to repeat my speech for the third time. I am not going to explain again how I see the problem of early motions and what signal you can send to the Chamber early. I didn't say the motions were unnecessary. I'm gonna say it again explicitly. It is not for me to decide whether a motion is superfluous, that is up to the Chamber itself. The political signal from the motions was clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u193	Very briefly, Mr Van Rooijen, because I think that this subject has been sufficiently discussed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u194	I'd be sorry if there was a communication problem. Maybe the stenogram should be checked. The Minister literally said that these two motions were taken seriously. With that he said the other one won't be, unless he didn't mean it that way. Then I'd like to hear that from him.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u195	No, I mentioned examples in my speech. I didn't mention all the motions. I have a note here that contains all the motions. Do I have to name them all every time to do everybody justice? There was also a motion from Mrs Strik. But that wasn't the point I wanted to make. I am not concerned about the fact that one motion is being treated seriously and the other is not being treated seriously. I didn't mean that. I come to development cooperation and expenditure on migration. Expenditure has increased sharply as a result of the huge increase in the influx of asylum seekers and refugees. This year we have adjusted the amounts on the basis of adjusted estimates of the inflow. The latest estimate is an increase to 58.000. We will take this into account financially in the Autumn note so that there are sufficient resources available. I'm talking about the current year. The estimate will be carried forward to next year. We will have to increase the funds for next year. We've been asked why we don't do that structuralally. Several motions have been passed, but I'm getting a little confused between the First and Second Chambers. Motions have been adopted which say that expenditure needs to be increased on a structural basis. We really do not know at the moment whether we are structurally dealing with a higher influx and if so, at what level. We also do not know whether the final estimate is the final estimate. We'll take a step-by-step look at what's needed. I said earlier that the budget should not be a bottleneck when it comes to the basic reception of asylum seekers. It's not. It is not in the current year, and it will not be next year. Resources will be provided for the policy adopted by the Cabinet for provision and reception. We will come up with additional proposals on this point when we discuss the Navy's note.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u196	The Minister is right to say that spending is going up. Is that all from the budget for development cooperation, both this year and next year?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u197	That is the starting point. The first year of reception is covered by the ODA definition. In English they call it "ODA-ble," but that is very bad Dutch. For an important part, this can be incorporated into the budget of BHOS. It is not at the expense of ongoing programmes or current expenditure on development cooperation or reception in the region. Expenditure is possible thanks to the growth space created by the economic growth we have. The ODA space is growing along with our GNP. From this growth area we are currently paying the extra expenditure for first-year care. In addition, there are many other expenditures, some of which are included in the V and J budget. Think of costs for the IND and Nidos. Both in the Autumn note and in the letter on the V and J budgets, we will discuss the specific V and J expenditures. We will come back next spring to the even broader effects of spending, such as the costs that municipalities bear for assistance and education, for example.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u198	I have a problem with this, because this is at the expense of expenditure intended for development cooperation. Why is the Minister not following Germany, which has said that this is such a major social task, that it has to be paid for to a large extent from general resources, i.e. from extra economic growth?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u199	We pay...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u200	Mr Ester's question is in line with this, so perhaps it can be put immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u201	I would have liked to have highlighted that it is not at the expense of ongoing development cooperation projects. I would like to support Mrs Fox's plea. This has become a problem of such magnitude that we have to allocate structural resources to it. This should not come from current budgets, but additional resources should be made available. I believe that with the economic story laid down in the Millions Note, there should also be room for spending. Would you like to respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u202	We're making extra money for this. That is inevitable and we are defending it. The question is, how can it be covered? If it is said that we need to provide structural additional funding for this, it is at your service, but the discussion with Mrs Vos is about where we find cover. Mrs Vos says that it should not come from the budget for BHOS, but that it should come from elsewhere, because the extra space created by BHOS through economic growth must also benefit OS. That's not the deal we have in the cabinet. That's not a stand-alone policy either. Standing policy, not only of this cabinet, but also according to an agreement that has been in place for years, is that the first year care is paid by BHOS and is covered by the ODA definition. After that we have a whole range of local care, integration, social support and other costs. This is only about freshman care. We find the cover for this in the budget for BHOS. I repeat that it is going to be, in the sense that we do not need to cut back on existing policies or on-going programmes of BHOS. We will return to the Navy's note, with specific amounts and so on. The PVV has asked about the total cost of the flow of refugees. I think that means the costs of integration. We're working on the first shelter right now. It is a huge challenge, every week, to provide the extra influx with shelters and sufficient resources. We are now in discussion with the VNG on the issue of reception at the local level in the medium term. And then there's the macro question of what it means to our society. Is there economic added value or not? There is a lot of debate about it. In the past, the CPB has done a study on whether the balance of the previous migration intake was positive or negative. I think it's too early to say that now. There are those who say that the group that is now pouring in is more educated than the previous group and that it needs to be able to integrate more quickly. The question is also how many of these people stay. At the moment, I have no substantiated opinion as to whether the macroeconomic impact will be positive and at what time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u203	If I have understood correctly, the level of education of this enormous new influx has so far not been assessed at all. The figures I base myself on are from Germany. Apparently, that's where it's measured. There the level of education is certainly sad compared to the average of the German and Dutch population.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u204	You may be able to conduct this debate more precisely with Secretary of State Dijkhoff. I am well aware of this, but I cannot state exactly who has examined it and how it has been established that about one third of the group is highly educated, a third secondary and a third low-educated. That's grosso modo a well-educated group. I cannot answer the question as to whether this has been thoroughly investigated. I think you can have that debate with Secretary of State Dijkhoff. A lot of the people who come in are being recorded and registered, so we'll see. I have received two further questions from Mr Ten Hoeve on expenditure. He asked whether certain items of expenditure could be committed for a longer period, such as the Municipal Fund. I understand the question because it provides more security and peace in the budget for longer periods of expenditure for the recipient, such as citizens, businesses or co-governments. At the same time, this deprives the national government of opportunities for budget flexibility and to adjust. Since 1994, the Municipal Fund has been following the development of a basket of government expenditure, along with the Province Fund, with the "stairs up, down stairs" system. This was also a wish of the local authorities. This means that they communicate in the good times, but also take some of the budgetary challenge into account in bad times. We are now carrying out an evaluation of the system of the Municipal Fund and the Province Fund together with the umbrella bodies of local authorities. We will inform Parliament at the beginning of next year, when that evaluation is completed. Mr Ten Hoeve's second question dealt with the scale increase in the courts. He asked why these are not classified as in Belgium per province. I am a bit hesitant for comparison with Belgium, because I now have an insight into the complexity of administrative Belgium. Let us not take that country as our example. At the moment, the Netherlands has 32 courts. They're not in question. That's where hearings continue to take place. The Minister of V and J is again in discussion with the Council of Justice on location policy. Again, the starting point is that no locations are closed. The subject of these locations is also part of the budgetary problem. That is what we are going to send a letter to both Chambers, as I just said. Let me make a few comments on Europe. Maybe I'm gonna smuggle a little because of time. We have sent a letter to both chambers on the priorities of the Presidency. The State of the Union was sent to this Chamber yesterday. In this context, we will address in detail the priorities of the cabinet during the first half of next year, especially at the Ecofin Council, i.e. in my area. One of the most important points is the further completion of the Banking Union. This is partly about reducing risks in bank balance sheets. There are still many national differences that we need to address and establish at a higher level. I am referring, for example, to capital requirements, but it is wider than that. At the same time, we will have a first discussion on a European deposit guarantee scheme. We have not yet received a proposal on this from the Commission. Of course, those two are very closely linked. Another important point on which questions have been raised, but the Secretary of State will say more, is the issue of combating tax avoidance or evasion. There is sometimes criticism of the Netherlands, but the Netherlands wants to be part of the leading group, because it is also not in our interest to facilitate international companies to avoid taxes. That is by no means our intention, so we will do a great deal of work on this during our presidency. There are likely to be many legislative proposals in this area. I don't have much news to tell you about Greece. The bank screening process has taken place. The situation with the Greek banks is more positive than expected. We had earmarked 25 billion for this, but we need no more than 10 billion public funds and perhaps even less. The process of attracting private investors to the Greek banks is now taking place. We await the result of that. In the meantime, Greece has agreed on the agreements that we should make in October and November, and they have already been implemented. Yesterday and today good news came about this, so the programme is on the verge. The priority is with the banks, because if we want to get the economy back on track, banks must gradually open up again. Then there are some comments on the report of the five presidents, to which I have been allowed to write. I thought the Finance Committee wanted to talk about this separately. Mr Van Apeldoorn described it as a salami tactic, in which ever thicker patches of powers are transferred. Then he didn't read the report, because he really can't get that out of there. The report distinguishes between things that we need to do in the short term, with great urgency, for example, completing the banking union, and other proposals for cooperation and structural reforms. And then there is a longer term with a number of proposals that are under discussion. These proposals have been controversial and have not been worked out. So I haven't been able to see any thicker and thicker slices in the report. It is a realistic report, with which we can work constructively and strengthen monetary union. But perhaps we can talk about this in more detail and more detail at another time. Finally, I come to the financial sector. I believe it was Mr Rinnooy Kan who looked back on the changes in the financial sector in the US versus that Europe and the differences in approach. There are really big differences in that. The explanation of why the euro area has been slow to emerge from the crisis can partly be found here. The US has forced the banks to cleanse and recapitalise themselves quite hard, from above and early. Europe has only done so with the launch of the Banking Union. Afterwards, Europe reviewed the AQRs and bank balance sheets, and then the banks were obliged to raise additional money or take compulsory losses. That process will continue. Mr Rinnooy Kan also referred to the next periodic stress test which will take place shortly. If the European newspapers are followed, it will occasionally be seen that the SPS really works and that banks in Europe regularly get the task of taking further losses, restructuring or raising additional capital from Frankfurt. This week there was another message from Portugal, where a large bank is again forced by the European supervisor to raise capital to strengthen the balance sheet. Those are messages I like to read. This means that the regulator is on top of it and that the process of strengthening the banks continues. Mr Rinnooy Kan has also asked about the light license, the light banking license. There's a lot of support for that in the House of Representatives. We are going to try and shape this with the supervisors, to develop a supervisory regime and a licensing regime that can reduce the entry barriers in a responsible way............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In England steps have been taken in this direction. We'll see if that's interesting for us. The motion of D66 and the VVD from the Lower House will be taken along that road. Mrs Teunissen of the Party for Animals has asked questions about the financial buffers of banks. Why aren't these buffers heavily reinforced? I can talk about it for hours, but I know the president doesn't want that. I am, however, sometimes accused of not being able to deal with these banks. The policy would not have been strengthened at all and the banks would not be in a good position at all. When I talk to bankers, however, it is interesting to notice that they talk to me the ears of the head with the opposite story. If they run into something, it is the high leverage ratio and the additional buffer requirements for the big banks in the Netherlands because of the banking structure in the Netherlands. The capital requirements are considerably strengthened along different lines. That is also right: it must be done. I say this in response to the questions of the Animal Party, which is concerned about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u205	I have a quick question. Can the Minister make that concrete? How much does that increase the buffers?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u206	I can. It's one of my favorite subjects. However, I do not know whether it makes sense to do so now, in view of time. Perhaps we can resolve it if I promise Mrs Teunissen that I will send a letter to the Chamber to explain it again. I think that's interesting for the outside world, too. As a result of the recent coco debate, I read everywhere in the newspapers that nothing is happening in the area of capital requirements. I see this as an opportunity to put back on paper what is happening in the area of leverage ratio, Additional Tier 1 capital, SIFI buffers, TLAC, MREL requirements, which is bail-in capital, etc. If Mrs Teunissen still defends the argument that nothing happens, then we have a nice debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u207	In my view, the answer to my question could have been very short, namely to mention a percentage. But if the Minister wants to do this, I am of course very pleased with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u208	I can give the figures to Mrs Teunissen for all these types of capital requirements and all these levels of capital requirements. However, that was going to make her dizzy. So I'm gonna put them on paper for her. I read in her contribution that she thinks the leverage ratio of 4% is too low. The Netherlands is the only country in the euro area that makes this high demand. That is quite right. I also believe that this demand should be raised in the coming years. In Switzerland, the UK and the US it has already been set at a higher level. Europe must do the same. That's at the top of my list. But the Netherlands is very much at the forefront of this. However, I am going to spell out by category of capital for Mrs Teunissen what the capital requirements are like now. I also hope that the outside world and the columnists in the NRC will read it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u209	Finally, Mrs Teunissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u210	If in that letter the Minister also gives a concrete indication of how he strengthens that buffer, I am very happy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u211	I'm sure we will, with pleasure. Then I have a single word about the coco's. In the Lower House there is a debate following a publication in the NRC. It's got different layers in it. The first layer is that the minister would have laws written by banks and ING. This was about one article in a tax collection law. One article. Yes, that has been settled with the banks and, yes, ING has made suggestions for the explanation of that one article, and under my political responsibility some suggestions have also been taken up. Is that a disgrace? No, not at all. Are we gonna keep doing that? Yes. In fact, the Secretary of State and I are in the process of consulting a lot more legislation over the Internet. Then everyone can see it. In this process, that is the only point I regret. In a normal legislative process, people are consulted on the Internet and everyone can react. That's what we make public, and then everyone can see it. Because this went by letter of amendment and quickly, there was no internet consultation. This has created the appearance of mystery. But, yes, the Treasury has been in contact with banks about legislation. Yeah, it's true. I admit it. And we're gonna keep doing that. The second layer in this subject is the question of whether coco's are not very unwise. Part of the critics in the NRC are simply against the instrument coco's. What are cocos? They are risky elements in the capital balance sheet. They do not replace the own funds requirements we impose on banks. Banks must increase their own capital, i.e. that which is deducted from their own profits. We need to get it up significantly. On top of that one can put a layer of convertible elements, also maximized and bound to all kinds of requirements. If a bank falls below a certain trigger level, then they have losses to take.......................................................................................................................................................... Mr President, I see from your face that you know enough. But this is the second layer of the discussion: are they not very dangerous? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Banks should not invest indefinitely in each other's coco's. This is also subject to demands, and it leads to higher capital requirements. They must be deducted from the capital that banks have. And so on. I can talk about it for hours. A third layer is the state aid aspect. In our view, State aid is not involved here. We have also been in contact with the committee, but this is ultimately my opinion. I will have that debate with the House of Representatives. Since it was a letter of amendment again, there is the pinch: if something went wrong, it is that it was not able to advise the Council of State. The Council of State may have raised the issue of State aid risks. But again, my point is that there is no state aid here. However, this aspect might have been addressed earlier in the legislative process. We could have done the law process better and smarter, but I am very much defending it in terms of content and I will do so in the House of Representatives. The SP Group had a question about SNS. Should SNS not be retained as a public bank for the utility function? All the major retail banks in the Netherlands, which we all know, have a utility function. They contribute to the existence of payments. They play a useful role in payment services for individuals and businesses. That's not in one couch for me. That is not in the question of whether or not that bank is in government hands. I want to secure that utility. We do that in different ways. The model for SNS is a simple sofa with simple products: the basic bank. That is exactly the strategy and vision that SNS Bank is now developing. As far as I am concerned, therefore, there is no discussion on this either. That leaves the question of whether the government should hold that bank. We haven't made a decision yet. We'll take it in the middle of 2016. I would like to add that my starting point is that all these interventions by the State were temporary. That's what Minister Bos said when he took over ABN AMRO, that's what Jan Kees de Jager said after him, and I'm gonna repeat it both ways. Those were temporary interventions, that's the starting point. We take the specific decision per institution carefully and only in the second half of 2016 will I be able to discuss SNS further. That's what I am, and then I must have skipped things through my questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u212	A quick question, Mr Van Rooijen? Mr Hoekstra then too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u213	I had asked the Minister if he wanted to respond to the defense by the Prime Minister that non-indexing is no reason to give a tax reduction. In other words, if you are not indexed, you are not actually entitled to a tax reduction. Can the Minister respond to that? In fact, this means that in the next few years, as long as there is no indexing, the government will not be able to give the pensioners any indexing, nor will the workers. I have not received an answer from the Minister, and I think this is such a fundamental issue that I would like a clear answer from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u214	I'm sure the Prime Minister didn't say that. What he has said is that this is, moreover, a policy that stands in the way of the fact that the results of pension funds, whether indexing or not, are not a responsibility of, or will not necessarily be compensated by, public policies. So if there are funds that don't index, it's not like we're gonna fix that in August, in purchasing power repair. That doesn't mean we can't do that. It can be a political consideration each year, whether or not income compensation for groups, including the elderly, is desirable. Every year we decide whether there is room or need for burden relief for, in this case, the elderly. So that's really a misunderstanding. The Prime Minister has never said: as long as there is no indexing, the elderly will not be relieved.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u215	Very briefly, Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u216	I can also check that in the Acts. I think you're partly right. It is just how you interpret that text, but I note that at least the Prime Minister is defending you and saying that we are not responsible for not indexing. You're right to say you could defend that. But I have great difficulty with the consequence of saying that if the government is constantly doing so over the last seven years and over the next x-number of years, I will not mention the number 10 again, but does not cause indexation and therefore a fall in purchasing power, then there is no need to oppose a tax reduction. From repairing flat tires, which I was talking about this afternoon, we are not served. We want to be part of structural tax cuts, especially for people who are not indexed while the workers also get a raise. I can't be any clearer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u217	There was no question in that, Mr. Chairman. I hope I solved the misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u218	If I may put it that way, in my first term, I was relatively keen on a procedural point which concerns the First Chamber, namely the point of interconnection. I would ask the Minister to respond to that in this period.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u219	There are still a lot of questions about tax, tax legislation and the State Secretary's Tax Plan left, if that's okay with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u220	I asked another question about the culture of the banking financial sector. We have invested a lot in institutional reform in this sector. I do not need to mention the examples. How do you currently appreciate the culture of the sector when it comes to those old things of financial gain, short-term thinking, bonus hunting and everything that goes with it? Do you think we have made progress in this regard?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u221	That's a harder question. Capital ratios can be measured, culture is more difficult to determine. I believe that progress has certainly been made. I know there has been a lot of talk in the sector. I've talked to a lot of bankers about that. Sometimes these were spicy discussions where there was also a lot of misunderstanding and still exists about the social criticism of the financial crisis. The positive thing is that one does not agree with the social criticism in all respects, but is very open to it and increasingly understands it. To what extent is the customer's point centralized now? Fortunately, we have supervisors for that. The AFM looks at the behaviour of financial institutions, whether they take care obligations well into account, whether they also consider the interests of the customer where they should do so. Maybe one last comment. I was impressed by the way in which, after a multitude of problems had accumulated there, a thorough report was produced, in which young people were given the lead, a report which was also very quickly converted into an action plan. This is now being implemented, partly in legislation, but to a significant extent by the sector itself. That gives me a strong signal that there is also the real drive to bring about a cultural change. There is still much to be done in accountancy, but the initiative has been taken faster and earlier. We're not here yet, but there's absolutely progress.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u222	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I have to apologize. I was invited across the street, too, and I didn't like not going. As a result, I was away for a while and I was unable to give this debate the attention I had intended. In that sense, this is a bit of a strange debate. As I said at the beginning, it is not just a debate of reflection for me, certainly political topicality and hopefully common sense, but also just running through the rain between the two Chambers. In this respect, I would like to make the point that we are also going to have a debate on the Tax Plan. I would perhaps like to keep the real details for that debate, otherwise we will be sitting there all night and we will have nothing to discuss. It fits better there, but I will, of course, go into the main points, because there are plenty of key points that have been put forward. A system review without reduction of charges is not feasible, but a reduction of charges without a corresponding system revision is a missed opportunity. Many of you have limited themselves, but you shouldn't have. I still support this sentence, so do my colleagues, and here are even two of the champions in particular of reform. I still support that sentence. It is no secret that we have spent a year trying to bring about a substantial reform of the tax system. The burden on labour is simply too high, so for many employers it is not attractive to employ people and not attractive for many workers to work. That's wrong and undermining. But simplification is also urgently needed. For that I should be in good company here, because I am sitting here with that part of Parliament that is particularly concerned about feasibility. I am also forced to be particularly concerned about this. Those who are better aware of the situation in the Tax Administration are even more concerned about the feasibility. That reform was a good thing, but when it came to it and we looked around the table, there were not enough parties at the table. I'm not gonna play anybody for that. Perhaps the proposals were not attractive; I do not want to talk about them. I've been working with all these extremely well-intentioned people, who really put their shoulders on them, but at the end there were too few around the table. Does that mean it's never gonna happen? No, I don't believe that at all, because Dutch politics has shown over the years that reforms that are needed will not come in one go, let's be honest about ourselves: not twice or in three, but ever. That is why we are a country where retirement age is linked to life expectancy, where there are no longer 12,000 municipalities, but 390, and where the sustainability of the economy has been restored in recent years. Optimism is mandatory but also intrinsic to me. The two people who spent most of their time thinking about the municipal tax area last year are both in this room today. They are also the guardian of thought. Is it ever gonna happen? I remain convinced of that. Can we do it in one go? Then we'll be overrated a little bit. Not in one go, apparently. There is now a package with a larger number of small reforms, a package with 35,000 jobs. Mr Van Strien mentioned a number of 7 000. The CPB thinks it's 35,000. It would have been nice if there had been more, but there are 35,000. For that package, which is less substantial than the package that was originally there, the basis is not even so easy to find. It was, I understood from predecessors, not easy to get support for a tax increase, but to lower taxes you have to get all on your knees over the Binnenhof. What's the status? We have indicated from the outset, even during the initial debate, and also of this package, in all kinds of ways that we are prepared to make concessions. The cabinet is particularly attached to these 35,000 jobs, but it did not chisel them in concrete and did not declare them sacred. A significant increase in employment is, however, paramount. In the end, we have not yet achieved that majority, that broader consensus that we were able to count on a priori, which would also mean significant employment growth. That is why we have finally submitted a letter of amendment. In doing so, we have sincerely tried to meet all the flanks equally. Sometimes these flanks are very difficult to unite and have different goals. That makes the package at least diverse. What one wants more is exactly what the other wants less. The heart desire of one is about the announced red lines of the other. We're in some kind of political Pareto situation. It does not seem possible to gain support on the one hand, without losing it on the other; a political Pareto. The solution is, of course, to go on, to link a flexible ear, files, and not to look for everything in taxation. So go ahead and see where the possibilities are. The letter of amendment contains a firm greening package. I'll get back to you. That wasn't in the original plans. Those who say there wasn't much green in it were right. The letter of amendment now contains a number of greening measures, along with the commitments I made in the debate in the House of Representatives. There is also an increase in family allowances and childcare allowances. They both have to do with children, but the increase serves very different groups. There is also a structural compensation for the purchasing power of older people after 2016. It is a package with a very controlled size, because we knew in advance that protruding in size would push others off the table. It is a package with which everyone is served to some extent, but on which no one is perfectly satisfied with great certainty. At least the latter succeeded. To some extent, the package does not meet the various motions that have been tabled here. I refer to the Strike motion, but I will come back to the greening measures in the package. I will also come back to the Schalk motion on the single-earners. I'm gonna have to take a little more time for that, too. I'm gonna have to go into that a little bit more deeply. For that, I say honestly, the concession is very limited. I'll explain why. I would also like to refer to the motion of 50PLUS. In this context, I will make a few comments about the elderly, but this motion has to a certain extent been dealt with by reserving 100 million in the package. I'll get to the pieces. It starts with where you're gonna bet that $5 billion. Without that 5 billion on top of the basic package, the purchasing power development of the average household in 2016 is about neutral. In other words, the economy is thriving, but the households are not getting anything. Not everyone gets the same amount of nothing. Some people get "nothing" more than others. Pensioners go down 1% if we do not come up with the package. That is explicitly not meant as a threat, because that is faint. I don't do that, but that's what we saw. That was also the image that emerged in August, -1% for the elderly. Only earners would also go through the ice, but with -0.2%, except if they have children and are around fashionable. Then they'll book -1%. Only households with children are making progress. That 5 billion package improves the average household, median, by 1.2%. Compared to where you were standing, you're on average up by 1.2%. Working people are making more progress, non-working people less, but all standard households, as we call them in purchasing power science, come from the red numbers. It's the only way to make a living. Only earners are improving 1.1% as a result of the 5 billion. That's just a little less than average, but pretty much the same. Cost winners, alone earners, thus have a proportional share in the 5 billion for 2016. I say quite frankly, but I will come back to that too, that this only applies for 2016. The same applies to the elderly. For the letter of amendment older people improved by 1.2%, exactly the average. This means that older people had a proportional share in the 5 billion for 2016. That's what the note called for. Structurally that was not yet the case, but some of it has been repaired for 2017. In the discussion here, but also on the other side, it appears that several senators have difficulty with the position of elderly and householders. This is not because their purchasing power is falling, because it is not in 2016, not even because these groups did not receive a proportional share of the 5 billion in 2016, because that is the case, but it is undoubtedly because the differences between the elderly and workers and those between the earners and the two earners are growing. That's how it's been put forward. These differences are increasing in the long term. That's where the discontent comes from.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u223	It's a question of numbers. The Secretary of State indicated that the single earner is improving 1.1% and the older 1.2%. What about the two-earner?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u224	The two-earner is making more progress. I don't know about all the household types, but I can see here that it's making more progress.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u225	The Secretary of State will undoubtedly be able to get that figure up soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u226	I think it's already on its way. We're definitely gonna get that number. In fact, I have just given a letter to the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u227	Fine, but will we also take into account what has been achieved in recent times? Then it's real, too. I think I know that this is more or less the mirror image of each other. That makes sense. Then it's weird, looking at the burden increases in the current system, with a lot of demand from certain groups, that you put that aside and just look at the standard situation of today. Then you'd have to look at it more broadly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u228	I think we should look at it more broadly later. In my passage on the elderly I will also try to see it wider. I think it would be useful to discuss the very specific measures in the Tax Plan and the main points here. First, however, I would like to comment on the question of bread-winners. Mr Schalk's colleague in the Lower House, Mr Dijkgraaf, has drawn up several examples of this. Not only him, but also others will have found that it does shed there. I won't deny that here. That sanding has to do with the question of how you look at the concept of life-form neutrality. We often agree at abstract level that life-form neutrality is important, but everyone means something else. Is it life-form-neutral if the tax burden remains the same, regardless of how the work is divided within the household? Or is it life-form-neutral if tax pressures remain the same, regardless of the individual's social form? Those things are mutually exclusive. One life-form neutrality is a very different one from the other. The social desire slowly moves from the first form to the second. By the way, that's what's going on for decades. This means that our tax system inevitably individualises. Those who attach to the first form, like several who have spoken here and also in the House of Representatives, see less and less of that. Those who attach great value to the second form attach great importance to it. For that we can invent all kinds of ugly words like 'court grant', but I am not doing that. They are both deeply felt and perfectly valid concepts of life-form neutrality, but a social shift is taking place from one to another. This means that the first type of life-form neutrality begins to abrade. You can see big differences there. They have also been discussed in the debates. How you weigh it depends on how you are in the debate about life-form neutrality and how you weigh it compared to more people at work and more economic activity. There has been a very long period of work in the House of Representatives to find some kind of compensation for this, for the support of this Tax Plan. There was also support for the Tax Plan, along the lines of a smart, non-permanent reduction in that trend. That was not in line with what the cabinet had intended to do, but anyone who is willing to make concessions and to gain acceptance must also think about that kind of thing. We have seen that we have not come together in this respect. However, there are possibilities for resolving this wish, not the wish of the cabinet but of others. However, these possibilities were not seen as sufficient by the parties who had difficulty with this principle. We have had a whole discussion in the House of Representatives about whether or not the CPB had made a certain calculation right, but I will never participate in it. I think the cabinet should just stick to CPB calculations. I think more than once, "Damn it, couldn't they have calculated that differently?" But then I have to keep my mouth shut and do my homework properly. The CPB should also be strict against the Cabinet and sometimes against the Chamber. That's how everyone's wishes are looked at. I keep to the CPB's assessment of this. There were other possible solutions, but we did not come together in them. There is more to be said about this issue and the social trends under it, but I think that we should take this up again when dealing with the Tax Plan and pay greater attention to it in more detail. However, this was the history of this point. That is what Mr Schalk had asked for.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u229	The Secretary of State is talking about life-form neutrality. The first form, the older form, would gradually start sanding. Unfortunately, the Secretary of State was gone from about three hours ago, so he has not been able to hear my speech. In that I have worked out that there are about 1 millionone-earners, so about 500,000 households. At 75% of those earners, the other cannot find a job or is unable to accept a job. Other figures have gone over the table. An interesting fact may be that 25% of the single-earners are women. There are also earners in all political parties. In other words, it's sanding, but it's sanding in all kinds of ways because what the Secretary of State calls the new life-form neutrality is by no means anyone's choice or can be chosen. Indeed, a great deal of work has been done to see if that problem could be solved. I also argued just now that the CPB, when calculating possible implementation of the amendment before it, assumed that what we are putting forward in 2016 would hold until 2040. It will indeed cost 35,000 jobs, but if you ask the CPB not to do so and let the general tax rebate go away, said in my mind until 2028, it will not cost jobs in the long term. I am so sorry that we are trapped in a model of calculation, by putting aside the common sense, with which the Secretary of State began his first sentence, in a manner of speaking. Can the Secretary of State respond to that again? I understand that he is very attached to the models of the CPB, but if you have a law passed, you may have to approach them in a slightly different way than general requests, for example from a party that would like to have something calculated.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u230	I shall begin with the first point, the three quarters. Nowhere has it been said that an incentive is not legitimate if not everyone can make use of it. The whole tax system is full of incentives that not everyone can use. We encourage people almost to the absurd to buy an electric car, but for some the range simply does not satisfy. Yet that is not illegal. It doesn't say everything. In fact, if the incentive were to work on a quarter of the target group, that would actually be a lot. Most incentives work on fewer people. The argument also bites a bit in its own tail. This type of incentive ultimately creates employment in the long term, according to the supply model and so on. The argument is actually: let us not do this, because not everyone can find a job. In other words, let us not create jobs, because not everyone can find a job. That's weird! That logic doesn't add up. It is precisely when you suffer from the fact that not everyone can find a job, what I do, that you must be prepared to take such measures, because they ultimately lead to more jobs, more jobs. That is precisely the purpose of the cabinet. Then the CPB. In all honesty, I have received great respect for the SGP and Mr Dijkgraaf in particular in this discussion. I have great respect for the perseverance, the sincere faith in this ideal and the willingness to do everything in my power to bring it to an agreement. I will not blame the SGP for failing to do so. However, I have the same respect for the CPB. With all due respect, this isn't a model that comes out. The term "calculation model" suggests that you put a number in it, that you don't think about it anymore, and that you then make a computer turnout and read it out. But it's not like that. Here are people who, through damage and shame, have just added expert judgment to the calculation. This number didn't necessarily come from the computer. This has been done by people who know that certain techniques can be applied not only in such cases but also by those who would like to manipulate electoral programmes. The CPB has a reason not to take this. I'm not gonna contradict the experts who judge that, because I understand their motives. I also understand that this is disappointing, but I keep saying that there are also methods where the judgment of the CPB results in a limited employment effect. Those choices would also have been possible with the negotiators on the other side. That would have had a more limited effect, but that would have just as well given an intended effect in that direction. The cabinet was prepared to do so. It would have been appropriate within the objectives of significant employment growth. Moreover, not all jobs would have survived in that variant, but anyone who is prepared to make concessions must also make concessions. We were prepared to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u231	Mr Schalk, I would remind you that you still have a second term. You may ask a short question, but for the rest I would refer you to the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u232	Thank you, Madam President. I will not discuss the CPB with the Secretary of State exhaustively. I also understand his intention to consider the CPB as high as possible. Maybe I can ask a follow-up question. In the meantime, the Secretary of State may have that figure of those two earners.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u233	1.6.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u234	1.6. Well, then that's pretty bad since the first plans. Anyway, there's a significant difference between them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u235	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u236	I asked for this in my term of office, but perhaps that is where the Secretary of State comes in or the government agrees that the gap is not reduced by the measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u237	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u238	Okay. Then I am very curious what he intends to do in the future with the motion, which is still there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u239	We have done all we can to make an amendment of this motion to the House. That didn't work. So there is no other way to accommodate this motion but a limited one, a small one; I say it myself. This means that the increase in family allowances in this group also affects children, but also other groups with children, and that does not reduce the difference. I haven't been able to realize more than that movement in the last few weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u240	Finally, Mr Schalk, and very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u241	Finally, this means that all parents with children receive child benefit, one earner or two earner. And two earners also receive child care allowance. In other words, the gap is deepening somewhat.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u242	The gap deepens somewhat, yes. I did not manage to reduce that difference in a way that would give support to government policy within the framework conditions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u243	Very limited, but yes. Mr Schalk is right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u244	I would like to draw the State Secretary's attention to or tempt him to a very brief reflection on the relationship between taxation and individuals. Income tax approaches people as individuals, but supplement building is mainly about households as households. There's a tension between them. Why, in one case, do we choose the individual as the primary starting point and, in the other case, for households? Doesn't the Secretary of State experience any friction? This also has to do with the issue raised by Mr Schalk. How does the Secretary of State view this tension relationship?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u245	There is a lot to be said about this, even wider than this question. In all honesty, I do not think I will be friends with the President if we are to deal with that now. I think we will find time for this when we debate the Tax Plan. I would like to make a commitment to this in detail. I cannot guarantee that we will agree on this, but that seems to me to be the time and place for this discussion. Otherwise, I think we should have breakfast together.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u246	I can understand that. That would go a little too far for me, too. I welcome the commitment that the Secretary of State intends to go into this in detail. Could he put the contours of such an exploration in a letter so that we are prepared for that debate as far as his angle of view is concerned?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u247	Then we are undressing the debate again. I was just trying to save something nice for that occasion. Let me think about that. This is precisely what we can discuss with each other. That is something that Mr Ester can infinitely interrupt me about at the time, because that is what this speech is for, of course. You can't do that with a letter. The same is true of the elderly. The 50PLUS Group has made it up to twenty pages, which I think is a unique one, with figures and answers to questions it asked in connection with the General Political Reviews and perhaps in preparation for this debate. Older people will receive a proportional share of the 5 billion for 2016. Not after that. How do you weigh that and how do you feel about that? I would like to make two comments. Firstly, it is not just about purchasing power development. It is also a matter of treating taxpayers as you see them. On the one hand, it's about where you want to have differences. There are now differences in the income-dependent contribution to health insurance. There were differences in the limit for the elderly allowance. There were differences in those related to the introduction of the sustainability contribution. Do you think that's acceptable differences? You can make a ruling on that. If you don't feel that way, then you need to fix those differences. That may have purchasing power effects, but you seem to think it can be defended. On the other hand, there are also differences that you do want. There are differences if, for example, you think that work can be promoted by tax. Then you're gonna treat workers differently than not workers. That has nothing to do with age. So it's not just a question of looking at purchasing power cards. It is also a question of what differences you have in mind. If you only look at the difference with the year before, you never give a fundamental view of the tax system, when you might think that working should lead to differences in taxation and not, for example, an income-dependent contribution to care. So it's not just about differences. Secondly, it is not just, I dare say, the distribution of wealth. It's also about building prosperity. Space for AOW and pension at collective level but also at individual level exists only in favour of economic development, economic prosperity and employment in working age. The workers of today are the elderly of later. If you now facilitate them in building prosperity, taking care of themselves, but also building pension and wealth, then you will also help the future elderly. That also plays a role here. It is not just a question of distribution at the moment. It is also a question of building prosperity towards the future. There were great differences. They came to light in August. They didn't look so pretty. The cabinet has seized the firm call for purchasing power repair for 2016, which sounded in August. The letter of amendment added another 100 million for 2017. Mr Van Rooijen has indicated that this is not enough. I get that from his perspective, but if the wrist stick goes more to one side, I'm gonna lose jobs elsewhere. That doesn't exactly help the support. I apologize for not being at Mr Van Rooijen's speech, but I read it with interest afterwards. He felt that there should be no tax difference between workers and non-workers. The cabinet disagrees with him on the main issue. Working people work and create prosperity. Whoever creates prosperity and rewards those who create prosperity also sees prosperity grow, sees that people can take more care of themselves and can take more care of themselves later. In the end, we all benefit from this. If in the working phase we have every chance to build prosperity for ourselves, at the end of the journey there will be more collective and individual for ourselves. Mr Van Rooijen is now going to say that the current elderly are the cigar by taking the lever. However, I do not think that the statistics on the abilities and the way in which the elderly have done it give any reason to believe that it has happened to their generation. Older people certainly form the wealthiest group in the Netherlands. Nor do I think there is any reason to believe that the cabinet has taken the lever at once. In the system letter, I wrote that we need to think about the distribution of wealth over life. Now, to reassure Mr Van Rooijen, I can say that there are some signs that whole generations will fall short if you take a big step. That means that you can only do very carefully with limited steps. That caution is in here. The big steps that could've been made aren't in here. They weren't in the system plan either. So I agree with Mr Van Rooijen that we run the risk of treating generations very differently from other generations if we take major steps. That's just not the order of magnitude of what's happening here. This is where society adapts so that as much prosperity as possible is built up when it can and that prosperity is consumed whenever it can.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u248	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his detailed explanation. I recognize his speech from the speeches he made recently in the House of Representatives on box 3. I also recognise that he wants to deal with this issue properly. I appreciate that. The elderly of today are the workers of that time. When you look at their lives, so their whole lives, you see that they didn't have those benefits back then. They did build the Netherlands together. Some people in the Netherlands are not allowed to say that at all, but of course they are. In the two major tax reforms, I was partly responsible for fiscal policy. At that time, no distinction was made between workers and non-workers. That is why I raised it in such detail this afternoon. I see a trend break here. Fortunately, the Secretary of State has read my contribution well. I didn't expect anything else. In any case, he says very clearly: we must build prosperity and so do the workers. The elderly of today who have worked before have also built the Netherlands. At that time, as young people, they were obliged to pay the AOW benefit for their parents who had never paid AOW contributions. This is why older people can expect workers to continue to take good care of them together with the government. That is the main issue that we are discussing here. The fact that older people have more power than others makes sense to me. If you have worked and saved for 40 years, by definition you have more power than if you are a student who still has to go to work. That is the case throughout the world, not only in the Netherlands. This seems obvious to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u249	The word trend break looks like a line on paper with a nod in it. There's no nodding here. Here is very careful, limited, with full repair in 2016 and partial repair in 2017. That doesn't include the word trend break. I have heard Mr Van Rooijen's warnings very well, even more so, that such warnings have led me to take a step in the letter of amendment that others did not have to get rid of. All steps meet that criterion, so in that sense it is shared misery. That is how I debated with my predecessor. It is funny to sit in this room with four former aldermen of Amsterdam and two former secretaries of state for finance. Apparently, everyone does what I do. Taxation and greening are two subjects that have almost always been mentioned together in recent weeks to my great displeasure. The word greening is no longer present in the public debate without the word fiscal and almost the other way around. Is that even right? I should like to make a few comments before I make a few more comments. The Netherlands is one of the countries that is most committed to fiscal greening. I would like to mention how green it can become, but the Netherlands is already within the OECD, which is made up of 34 countries, third place when it comes to income from environmental taxes as a percentage of gross domestic product. The Netherlands has very high energy tax rates and lower pricing rates than in other countries. I regularly get very angry emails about that, but well, I'm here to get angry mails. In addition, we have put together a system that is completely out of the debate in terms of size. I sometimes get the question of whether we can't increase the energy tax by 100 million. 100 million sounds like a large amount, but in the coming years, anyone who uses energy automatically pays an additional 2.5 billion in energy taxes without any further intervention. That's what we do. Billions! It's in our system. You can be happy with it or not, but that's one of the facts. There's been speculation about a CO tax. With the current rates, we have a great deal of such a tax. The excise duty on petrol is soon a CO tax of €450 per tonne, while the horizon price is €40 and the ETS price is €5. The same applies to energy taxation. In short, the COtax is in multiples in the Netherlands. I'd like to hear from Mrs. Fox about what I'm about to say. We perform quite well in the climate field. The Netherlands has received a target from Europe to be achieved by 2020. We must have reduced CO emissions by 16% compared to 2005. What are we heading for? When I tell my kids, who are also watching the news, we have to get 16%, and I ask them what they think we're gonna get, they say we're gonna get about 12%. I will answer: no, 24% instead of 16%, in the ETS domain, so where it counts. In the non-ETS domain, we control it ourselves. That is where we need to take our own steps. Every step we take is not compensated in a negative way elsewhere, unlike in the ETS domain. In the ETS domain, what we do leaks away. The ETS domain is just a ceiling dropping. Then we all have to go downstairs. And if we go down extra, someone else has to go up extra. So they're all communicating vessels. What we do there and collect energy tax is nice for the state treasury, but it does not help greening. What we do there just goes with the ceiling. There we are paid for our participation in the system, while we score very nicely in the non-ETS domain.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u250	I still have a question. The Secretary of State has just said that we are in fact taxing coal for a long time, but it is, of course, a matter of the fact that power plants are constantly using coal at the moment, because that is the cheapest fuel. There's no brake on that bet. Overall, coal fuel is extremely cheap. As a result, our CO emissions have increased by 6.8% in the last second quarter. So there is definitely a problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u251	No, there's a brake on it. This is a mistake of thinking, really. Coal generation is covered by the ETS. There goes the ceiling down. If you do that with coal, you're gonna submerge more CO duties per kilowatt hour that have to be removed elsewhere. Because the number gets smaller every year. We have fewer and fewer coal-fired power stations, which eat up CO rights that can no longer be used elsewhere. There's definitely a brake on that, called a ceiling. Moreover, we probably have the most efficient coal plants, which will logically replace the lignite plants which are now much worse in Eastern Europe. The fact that CO emissions from electricity production have increased is simply because we have exported that Dutch efficiently generated electricity abroad, where they generate less efficiently. So that's all there is to it. We need to have a little more faith in the ETS. A ceiling that goes down slowly for everyone is the most beautiful thing there is. A cap-and-trade system is the dream of an economist. It's the only thing that helps. It is no longer up to the goodness of countries such as the Netherlands, which all offer tax advantages, no, every country must participate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u252	I want to help Mr Wiebes out of the dream a little bit. We know that the ETS is barely functioning at the moment. There is an incredibly low CO price and there are no less than 2 billion ETS allowances in the reserve, which also remain there. So there is still incredibly much room for all kinds of polluting sectors to continue to grow. I agree with the Secretary of State that we should not destroy the ETS. But to say that this is the most beautiful system there is, I find a little too optimistic.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u253	No, I'm really fighting that. What Mrs Vos is saying is that the ceiling could certainly be lowered faster in her eyes. Well, we're not cramped in the ETS; that's a fact. Look, a high CO price isn't the target, it's the cure. The goal is to bring down the ceiling: fewer and fewer tons. That could get tight, so the price goes up. Now it's not pinching. Perhaps we should have been more ambitious afterwards and lower the ceiling more strongly, but that is going to happen at the agreed pace. The CO price is only a consequence and never a purpose. We'll see that at some point it's gonna get tight and then the price goes up. Not because it's a purpose, but because it's a consequence.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u254	Mrs. Fox, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u255	But the low CO price does of course give too little impetus to really invest in low-carbon or low-carbon techniques. It is therefore very important that this price should increase, so that sustainable innovation is carried forward more quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u256	But still: the price is the result, the driver is the ceiling. That goes down every year by a fixed percentage. So every year, it's gonna get harder. What is perhaps the case is that countries such as the Netherlands, which are under the ETS ceiling, are going to take measures, so that we go down faster than we should under the ceiling, so that they can " bark in the air" elsewhere very cheaply with those CO rights. But the ceiling's going down, and we want it. A racist liberal, who thinks that you shouldn't leave a sovereign debt to your children, should also agree that you shouldn't leave any ecological debt to your children. We don't disagree on that. Do you need more? I want to be just as strict about that eternal combination of greening and tax. Because that combination is wrong. In the case of greening, taxation is always taken into account immediately. Let us note that taxation does not have such a good track record when it comes to greening. Let me give you an example: the bottom line is our greening car policy. I had to explain in the Lower House that our greening car policy has cost some billions in tax erosion and, on balance, in absolute terms, purely as a result of Dutch greening policy, has led to more CO emissions than would have been the case without that policy. Taxation does not have a good track record when it comes to greening. The SDE has a good track record, the source policy we have in many areas in Europe has a good track record, the cap-and-trade system has potential. Those are tools that have the force of proof, whereas taxation really still has to prove itself. We make a lot of pleas, for example to increase the energy tax on coal, which has a beneficial effect on the state budget. But it has very little to do with climate. Nevertheless, greening measures were promised in this context in the letter of amendment. One of the most important is finding a different balance between energy taxation on gas and electricity. The other day, someone in the public arena dismissed that as a green thing. I'd like to mention that my mailbox is shaking from that green thingy. Because that little green thing is not a small thing: on balance, the energy tax on gas goes up by almost 800 million, while the energy tax on electricity goes down by 550 million, which is, on balance, a revenue of 225 million, which is returned to, yes, households and businesses. So that's not a little thing. It's something that's really green. Because it is not in the ETS domain and it has a beneficial effect in two ways. Now I'm going to advertise that measure. Firstly, it is clear that all kinds of heat pump projects are now not profitable, because the gas price is too low compared to the energy content and the electricity price is too high. Heat pumps are devices with 100% efficiency, because they do not create heat, but move. So you can save energy by putting more heat pumps and fewer central heating boilers in the built-up environment. Secondly, of course, we are bringing something from the non-ETS domain to the ETS domain. On balance, the full CO emissions from all those boilers we replace have thus completely disappeared. Because we're putting it under a cap-and-trade system. This is a smart measure, which is not popular with everyone. We do not have the measure in place either, let me say in all honesty, because we were not so green, but we did so because there was a great call in democracy for this to be put into the Tax Plan. We did. In addition, we have invested 60 million in the EIA and I have promised that we can green the postcode rose. I will not go into the details, but I can say that the design changes and the tax concession becomes more favourable. On balance, therefore, there is no longer any energy tax due for decentralised autoproducer companies. I have promised that in any way I will try to achieve a lower energy load rate for the charging stations of electric cars. On the basis of the second main law of thermodynamics, I had to explain that I actually thought that was bullshit, but I did promise. That commitment stands. Many questions have been asked to me about the coal tax. I say about that: she's great for the state treasury, but she has nothing to do with greening. There is, however, another thing that has to do with greening: if we pull this card out of the energy agreement, then suddenly there are a lot of private parties who say: the government does not comply with the energy agreement, then we are no longer sticking to it. That doesn't help the climate. I do not want to break open the energy agreement here, including on behalf of Mr Kamp, in order to introduce a tax measure on coal-fired power stations which does not directly benefit the climate, but which will destroy the energy agreement. That's where I had to fit. Several questions have been asked about tax avoidance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u257	How many folders do you have left?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u258	Well, I'm going pretty fast, I guess. I'm trying to make it quick. I could also answer the questions on international taxation in writing, but I think that Mr Postema finds that uncomfortable. It considers that the Netherlands does not deal with the issue of the exchange of rulings. Then I have to graze at him, because the Netherlands has announced that it wants to be a forerunner, the Netherlands has developed a model to do so quickly, the Netherlands has argued in Ecofin that it should start quickly and the Netherlands is already before it was obliged to start a memorandum of understanding with the Germans, who, by the way, have been reluctant to do so with us, against rejoicing and rejoicing, because those Dutch people were so upset about it. So yes, transparency is a typical Dutch way to help combat tax avoidance. Transparency is ours.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u259	Even with retroactive effect? So also with the historical files?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u260	Yeah, till 2012. Before that date, the tax authorities were sometimes unable to raise these agreements, which should cause some concern to you and to me. Within the possible framework, however, the Netherlands has argued in favour of a firm exchange of rulings. And that's what we stand for. Because what is against the exchange of information between tax administrations in order to avoid unintentional abuse? If you put it that way, you can't argue with that. Then there is the question of withholding tax. The Netherlands has a very good reason not to levy withholding tax on interest and royalties. In short, we do not have a withholding tax on interest and royalties in Europe, so that cross-border companies and national companies can be treated equally. They'll be treated differently. Only the Netherlands, in principle, has understood it not only at European level but globally. We are a country that has always done business worldwide. We see the world not as Europe but as the world. So we have an international principle that has been accepted on a European scale. Should we not do it differently in the fight against tax avoidance with tax ports? This is what the OECD has done in the BEPS project. The OECD is preparing all kinds of issues, including rules on transfer pricing. The final station of these OECD rules under the BEPS project is that it is no longer possible to channel profits to cash boxes on a tropical island. That's what we're trying to do. That BEPS pathway will, among other things, land in our EU Presidency. So we need to do some sensible things with that. Sense does mean together. Because it doesn't change the world if you do it alone as a small country different from the rest of the world. It only changes your own country. That's the challenge. The OECD has taken a revolutionary step in this respect. This has not yet happened in the field of international tax avoidance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u261	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the way in which he answers our questions; only appreciate that. I'm applying a nuance to that "doing together." The Netherlands hasn't done it together for years. We therefore call for our responsibility now to be taken into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u262	Those are clear words. Mr Van Apeldoorn's question follows on from that. Do we have a plan ready to do something about tax avoidance? I have good news for Mr Van Apeldoorn. The world has a plan in place. That's what makes it so unique. That hasn't happened before. The Netherlands can make a plan, well, then we have a plan, but we are so small. But now the world has a plan. That plan will be implemented in the coming years. The first country to attract this on a European scale is the Netherlands, because of the EU Presidency. This is going to be a global event. That "together" is important, because not together you achieve nothing. Mr Ten Hoeve asked a question about the CCCTB. For non-insiders: the Common Consolidated Corporate Tax Base. I also said in the House of Representatives that I consider this an extremely dubious initiative. The Netherlands believes that you must tax profits where value is created and not where value is not created; so you must do it where value is created. The CCCTB distanced itself from that principle. This means that, if a company is present in four countries, you allocate the profits to countries via a fixed key, even if that profit has nothing to do with those countries, and that you tax it in that way. The most wondrous behavior can come from that. That also has no economic logic at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u263	I waited a while, because I wanted to know if the Secretary of State would go into more detail on the questions I had asked. I will return to the issue of tax avoidance. I had spoken about tax avoidance by multinationals. The Secretary of State says there's a global plan for that. That's good. I hope that will soon lead to results. My first question was about individuals' tax avoidance or evasion. According to a recent PhD research by the University of Tilburg, Dutch most wealthy people dodged for 10 billion in taxes through letterbox companies. I asked if there was a plan for that too on the part of the Secretary of State. With regard to the issue of tax avoidance by multinationals, I was wondering if the Secretary of State still intends to answer my questions about the Starbucks case.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u264	Yeah, I'll get to that. Mr van Apeldoorn, I apologize for forgetting your question about the individuals. That comes from a thesis in which a calculation is made that consists of a multiplication of four numbers, which we can share here, and a very high amount comes out of it. I have promised the House of Representatives a letter in which I will indicate those figures. A debate has also been requested. I think it would be appropriate if I promised to send that same letter to the First Chamber as well. Then it's up to her to see what she's doing with that letter. If we do that, it's a little more complete than if I'm gonna be here late at night and keep my mouth shut. Then I come to the question about the Starbucks case.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u265	I will return to what the Secretary of State replied to my question. He's partly right. If a company makes a profit in four countries, that profit should be taxed where the profit is made. Then you have to have some kind of system to determine where that is the case. You can't even agree with a proposed system, but then you might have to imagine another system.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u266	That's right. That system is there. In fact, this system has been fully developed by the OECD in the framework of the BEPS project. That's a transfer pricing system. That means you're applying the arm's length principle. That means you're pretending that the four business lines of that one company are four different companies that just deal with each other on the basis of market prices. Then you decide who makes the profit. Where the profits are made, you have to tax the profits. The OECD has given a great deal of thought to how these transfer pricing rules should be implemented. There are several ways to calculate that. They're all agreed. It is actually intended that the world should move on to that principle. So it is a bit strange to think of a completely different system in Brussels that is at odds with that. A system that I cannot defend economically at all. The more I have to explain, the less I understand. Mr Ten Hoeve also made another point. I answered his question exactly halfway. He also asked about the race to the bottom. That's not about the base, it's about the rates. The Netherlands, and a lot of other countries, have indicated that they really think they are about the rates themselves. There has also been extensive correspondence on this subject. I believe that it cannot be established that there is even a race to the bottom that has hit the Netherlands. The burden on industry has not fallen but increased. However, the lever of the rates would like to keep the cabinet, as well as the House of Representatives. We've had fun with that in the past, too. For example, we have taken crisis measures to invest ourselves out of the crisis. We have also temporarily applied lower rates for this. We shouldn't have done that. So it is important to talk about your own button in your tax system. I come to the question about Starbucks. At some point, the cabinet will come up with a response to that case. I'm not going into that right now. For the moment, this is the type of decision that must be implemented immediately. This means, therefore, that there is a real need for recovery, because that is the nature of the decision, irrespective of whether there would be an appeal and if so, what the outcome would be. This has to be recovered now. It's coming soon. All kinds of other questions have been asked that do not fall into a category. Mr Rinnooy Kan has asked for reform questions often come from that angle, whether it is not even time for a fundamental rethink of the tax treatment of debt and equity. The cabinet has actually indirectly said yes to this, because this was originally part of the proposal in the context of the broader system review. There were many different measures in increasing depth. Somewhere in that ranking there was indeed a different tax treatment of debt and equity. The conversation around that table did not immediately lead to people getting their hands together for this kind of thing, but it is a very well-known discussion. She often returns to the economic discourse. By the way, as you dive deeper into it, you can make it infinitely more complicated. At some point there are only two people at the table who follow it. At the stage before that, this was a passable path for many, but that was not enough to find a majority for it. The cabinet's commitment at the time was to consider this as part of a broader system review and in such a way that the Netherlands' locational climate remains attractive and that we do not fall out of step with neighbouring countries. However, you can meet those conditions. Then there was a question from Mr Hoekstra and a concern from Mr De Grave. It is uncertain whether I can answer the question entirely for satisfaction and whether I can take care away. They are both about the link between the Tax Plan and the proposal relating to box 3. This proposal has no budgetary significance at the moment, but in the opinion of the Cabinet it is an essential and also substantive part of the Tax Plan. In substance, there is a legitimate reason for bringing forward legislative proposals together. This coherence of content is reflected in the balance between the measures, as you can also have lubricating oil to ensure a certain balance in reforms. That is also a point which the Council of State points out. This is the kind of cohesion that we are talking about here. On the one hand, it is up to the taxpayer to explain why you increase the income gap between working and not working. That cannot be explained to everyone, because you can disagree. On the other hand, taxation on average higher and lower returns is becoming fairer. These are two coherent forms of butter in the fish. They relate respectively to a shift in tax from work and to a shift in tax from property. It's easier to justify one thing if you do the other thing at the same time and the other way around. Both measures fit into a social movement. We all want the tax on capital to be closer to the real return, and many are prepared not everyone is that to tax labour other than non-work. In the combination, these measures become more acceptable. It is precisely with these things that tax morals play very strongly and you want to get that acceptance through that bundling. That was the choice of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u267	It's a breathtaking story, but of course it's bullshit. It's really fucking bullshit. There's been a political deal. It would be a credit to the cabinet if, through the Secretary of State, it were to say the same thing as what Mr De Grave said here. To be honest, this would be a milder vote for my group on this matter. Let me explain what I said in the first term, because I do not know whether the Secretary of State was still present at the time. I didn't go ice cream on this one night. I have spoken with the other spokesmen and also with a large number of former Members of Parliament and former directors of the Ministry of Finance. They have all assured me that there is no precedent for this link. There's something that's getting close, and that's a 2003 bill, the 2003 Tax Plan. At that time the cabinet said: 'Dear First Chamber', we will not try this again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u268	Mr Hoekstra would like to have mentioned the words 'political' and 'deal'. When you talk about the substance of the relationship between something where you require taxpayers on the one hand to work and not work to be taxed differently and on the other hand to accept that higher and lower returns are taxed more correspondingly, one in the sphere of work and the other in the sphere of capital, you can call it "political." Perhaps that is political, but this is from the cabinet's point of view the substantive coherence that we have attached to it. Given that this is a balance, it is best to call it "political."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u269	Let me say it again: these are very fine words to indicate something about which we will have to judge in a moment. There are two points. If a measure can be qualified as an independent legislative proposal, then the unwritten rule is that it is also presented here as an independent legislative proposal. There is something special going on here, because the Tax Plan will see on 2016 and the measure for box 3 will see on 2017. There is therefore no need to link these two cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u270	The link and the time limit are not necessarily directly related to each other. If they had both covered 2016 they could have been in different proposals. The Other Tax Measures Bill also includes things that, like the Tax Plan, go into 2016. That's not necessarily the leading motive to put things together or not. Moreover, the Council of State does not write that this should be done in a separate legislative proposal. The Council of State suggests that this should be included in the legislative proposal Other Fiscal Measures and not treated as an independent legislative proposal. So the Council of State wants to pool it in a different way. The fact that it covers several years is not the point. What does play is that you now have to decide on a tax plan that you want to enter into in 2016 and that is the same for a proposal on box 3 that you want to enter into in 2017. Its timeliness is therefore necessary. At the same time, although coincidence plays a role, it is also necessary. You have to do it both now so you can run it each in its own timeline. However, they have been brought together because, in the eyes of the cabinet, there is a political issue, as Mr Hoekstra calls it, as well as a substantive one. That has been the motive. By the way, I have heard the contribution from this Chamber and also from the other Chamber. Perhaps it is also true that that loud call still sounds in my head in future cases, because the view is very clear and the choice has also been very clear to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u271	That link also seems very strange for another reason. It seems the Secretary of State's intention to link income from work to wealth income and to tax it at the same time. If you take the Quote 500 and look at the descriptions of the great assets, you see that the revenues all come from significant interests of companies. In other words, these people are pretty much all in box 2. So what the Secretary of State now links to box 1 seems to be very random, because he only connects box 3.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u272	I can't put anything about box 2 in the Tax Plan, because nothing changes in box 2. If we had to discuss the relationship between box 2 and box 3, this could be done in the context of the discussion on the Tax Plan, but that does not have much to do with these links.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u273	I do indeed think that we should have this discussion when dealing with the Tax Plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u274	Given the advanced hour, are you almost done, Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u275	Mr. Chairman. I would like to comment briefly on Mr Van Apeldoorn's point, which is also my final point. Whether it was a comment or a question, I would have to dive deep into my memory for a moment. Mr Van Apeldoorn said that the income inequality of the Netherlands is not so small at all. In the statistics I have been able to collect, there are at least two definitions of Gini indices. In both we are below the OECD average. In one we are even at the bottom and in the other clearly below the average. I believe that it is widely recognised internationally that the Netherlands is not a country of large income disparities. However, I can imagine that Mr Van Apeldoorn still thinks the differences are too great, but compared to other countries we are below the average, if not below the average.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u276	I have a correction that may have a question in it. The Secretary of State admitted that the gap between one- and two-earners is even deepened in the new notes of amendment. We discussed some figures: one earners advance 1.1% and two earners increase 2.6%. Maybe the Secretary of State saw that I was almost knocked out of the field for a while. That is also true afterwards, because I checked the figures from the SZW budget for 2016. The answer given by the Secretary of State was good, but only 25%. It's like this. Let's put the modal at €35,000. People who earn two modes and have no children have an income of €105.000 and are up 1.7%. Modal plus mode without children: 2.8%. Two modes plus a half-modal with children: 2.2%. And then he comes. If one partner just earns fashion and the other half-modal, so one and a half-earner, with children, then they're getting ahead of it 3.7%. That's against the 1.1%. That's such a big difference that it's okay to name that. I am very curious to see how the eight parties who signed my motion might still weigh that. I'd like the Secretary of State to respond to these figures.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u277	This is the sanding I just mentioned, but quantified. I have compared the income development of the average household, but do not deny that where the money goes to the incentive to work, there are households that are significantly improving. The most advanced groups are the workers at the bottom. That is also the case because the CPB is also not a model calculation, but the results of research that has been done on it in recent years show that these people need the biggest push to get to work. That is why it was chosen. This has also led to these differences.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u278	Mr. Chairman. First of all, congratulations to Mr Rinnooy Kan, Mrs Teunissen and Mr Van Rooijen for their excellent maiden speeches. I see that Mrs Teunissen is celebrating somewhere else. What has the debate brought about today, now that the smoke is more or less rising? Of course, it has something surreal that we are having this debate, also in view of what is happening across the street. The best illustration of this was, of course, that the Secretary of State left us to engage again in discussions on the Tax Plan and taxation in particular. Furthermore, the debate has shown that the Millions note contains a number of really sensible things. In our opinion it is also a basket with a few rotten eggs or rotten apples, but I have already spoken about this in the first term. There are also some nice phrases in the Millions note. Mr Rinnooy Kan mentioned one. Another sentence that I noticed is that it is written about the economy: better than expected, but not good enough. I don't want to get too gloomy, but if you were very gloomy, you could imagine that the people here would draw that conclusion about the Millions Note as a whole. My group will not draw that conclusion, by the way. I would like to highlight one point in the debate. I think the Minister was quite right when he said it was a wise idea to do something about the wedge. The Secretary of State has said that some things happen in the Netherlands in three or four steps. This also seems to me to be one of those issues which you should hope will be followed by several further steps after this step. I believe that this is very important for the workers, or rather, for those who are not yet employed in the Netherlands. I would very much like to support the Minister in that. My final point concerns the link. First of all, I would like to thank Mr De Grave and the VVD Group for their support. As far as I am concerned, it is sensible, but for a government party it is also brave to say that in such a way. We think that the clutch is really a problem, but we are not out to drive the cabinet in the wheels. We think it is more important that something happens in the long term that really helps the Chamber and where the position of the Chamber remains as it is, than that we put the cabinet to the throat, and get everything we want in this particular legislative proposal. I'm filing a nuanced and well-balanced motion, I think. The President shall: Mr Hoekstra, Mr Ten Hoeve, Mr Rinnooy Kan, Mr Van Apeldoorn, Mr Ester and Mr Van Rooijen proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government has linked, among other things, a separate bill on box 3 to the Tax Plan 2016 bill, which also starts in 2017;]] [[noting that these are two separate legislative proposals;]] [[noting that this would deprive the First Chamber of the possibility of making a separate political final assessment of both independent legislative proposals;]] [[noting that this is clearly not the state-law tradition of recent decades;]] [[noting that this creates an undesirable precedent for the future;]] [[calls on the Government to refrain from such a link in future,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-O]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u279	Then I too shall proceed to the order of the day, Mr President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u280	Thank you very much, Mr Hoekstra. I thought you wanted to say something, but that was not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u281	Madam President. First of all, I would also like to congratulate the three Members who have made their first contribution. Each of these three contributions was of such quality that we can look forward to the presence of these Members in the Chamber. That promises a lot for the future. I would also like to thank the Minister. Let me put it briefly: as far as I am concerned, the questions have been adequately answered. I've noted the commitment. I do not agree with the Minister on all points. I will once again discuss the issue of the size of the collective sector. It would have been very strange if the Minister had not pricked back at that point, but there will be another time to talk about it. In general, it was therefore adequate. The same applies to the Secretary of State. In his reply, we have been given examples of how he is particularly capable of indicating something very sharp and very clearly, even with a number of beautiful trouvailles. That Paret talk was beautiful. That was another gem. I am really looking forward to the debate we will have on the Tax Plan. My group also notes that it is a good thing that this debate here, in the First Chamber, will take place to its full extent. It's about getting a majority in the First Chamber. It is very nice that once we have had the debate here and the arguments can be exchanged. I would also like to draw the attention of the Secretary of State to an issue I mentioned in an interruption. In order to support this proposal, it is important for my group that, in addition to the issue of employment and the labour factor, after the heavy burden increases, which were necessary and inevitable and which we have also supported, we also look at the balance: from whom have we asked the most? This was also reflected in the discussion with other groups. On the contrary, there is a great deal of demand for certain categories of expenditure. It might well be possible to find a further argument or defence in that element for proposals from the cabinet. I ask the Secretary of State to include this element too, otherwise it will only be a static discussion, based on a situation as it is today. However, it is also important to give a place to the element of compensation, of giving something back to what you have asked someone else.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u282	I would very much like to invite Mr De Graaf to be more precise about what he is now saying: differences in taxation, on the other hand, differences in treatment in the future. Does he have any examples to illustrate that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u283	I think I'm crystal clear. I ask only one thing, as I did in the case of interruption. It concerns the balance of the measure. The difference between two earners and single earners, between higher incomes and lower incomes: that is a factor that has also been discussed here. That is a statistical situation of today, the current situation. However, the VVD Group points out that, in order to support the plan, we should also look at giving something back after the many sacrifices you have asked for. Then it wouldn't be illogical for you to put on the scale whose sacrifices were mostly requested?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u284	It is not illogical at all, but I would like it to be more precise. Would it lead to conclusions other than those currently drawn in the proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u285	For the time being, my conclusion is that I ask the Secretary of State to include that element in his analysis. That's what we've been asked about. He has also promised to do so. If we know the outcome, Mr Van de Ven will indicate the conclusion on behalf of the VVD Group. The most important thing now is that that element is on the table. We must not only assume the situation now, but also include what the increases have meant. I'm rounding up. As I said, I have listened with great pleasure to the Secretary of State on many points. However, there are times when there is a theme on which even he, probably in the absence of arguments, is unable to give convincingly a certain position. That has been the case at one point. I see him smiling at me and I think he knows what theme it's about. I'm sorry, but that wasn't convincing. So it really must have been a lack of arguments, because if there had been, the Secretary of State would have put them forth in an unparalleled manner. It will be clear that I will advise my group to support the motion tabled by the CDA Group. I would point out that my group is primarily concerned with the future. That was already clear, because we have already made it clear in advance that it is not about the content of the proposals, whether it is about tax cuts or box 3 proposals, and we were positive about this, but that it is really a very important point, namely how the First Chamber can play its role and make its decisions. I have one more question for the CDA colleague. Can he include 'among other things' in the motion when the first observation is made? More proposals have been made in the Tax Plan than just this proposal. It is also a slightly broader issue than just this point, although this is the main point. Perhaps Mr Hoekstra would like to consider this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u286	I would like to look at you, Mr President, to see to what extent that is allowed and how I do it. I am looking at Mr De Grave to determine where exactly that "among other things" should be put in the first line.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u287	We can still do it now, because the motion is still being drawn out.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u288	If I can get the motion on paper, I can report it in a minute. Mr Van de Ven is now handing me the motion. I read it out, adding "among other things": "states that the government has linked a separate bill on box 3 to the Tax Plan 2016 bill among other things." That's where I'd like it inserted.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u289	I do not think there is any objection to that, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u290	This is where it happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u291	Mr. Chairman. I'm looking back on a very special day. It was the day of my maiden speech. Looks like it's been a century. A lot has happened in the meantime. I begin by expressing my great admiration for the energy, commitment and intellectual creativity with which the two rulers have answered the questions and comments. In what I have said and said, I asked for attention to be given to three issues. First of all, what can we learn from the past? Secondly, what is needed now? Thirdly, what is threatening us in the future? On each of these points I have heard a lot and learned a lot. With regard to the first, I have learned above all that what we learn from the past is that many wisdoms of former diminished seem to be applicable. In particular, the classic instruments available to governments to combat crises have become more unpredictable than reliable. We've been there. This also applies to the monetary instruments, to which we are still calling so strongly, with perhaps an increasing nervousness about their effectiveness. It also applies to fiscal instruments. We have had a discussion about Keynes' actuality, which is not dead but also not so horribly alive. We have also talked about the desirable mix of policies. In this respect, too, we must see that the stone of the wise still escapes us. I note the Minister's statement, in fact, that we can learn something from the Americans if we ever threaten a new European banking crisis. To be honest, however, I hope that will not happen again. I also have some confidence that many of what we have done is reducing that risk. What's it gonna take? One of the main issues has been the debate on the reduction of charges. The debate on this is not over either. I note that the way we have talked here about the budget of V and J is a very good example of what the First Chamber can do. Just as a number of Members have advocated, the Chamber has made it clear at an early stage that there is broad discontent here at least as regards what appears to be the thrust of the budget. In the media, if we can believe it, an amount of 200 million is explicitly mentioned for a number of policy areas in which extra investment can be made. I note that from my party's point of view this is very close to what we were trying to achieve. So we can only be satisfied and grateful for that. The Secretary of State has explained to us in detail how incredibly difficult he is to make everyone happy. This may lead to feelings of pity, but in the end it is not convincing for any of the proposals he makes. In all honesty, I believe that the key question is and remains how a 5 billion reduction in charges is organised and what is left of it in the longer term. If at least a 5 billion reduction in charges is acceptable and for D66 it is certainly not unacceptable. However, I note that we cannot be very optimistic about the extent to which the present proposal meets the needs of my party. I say that subject to reservation, because the story is not yet finished. There's still a vote to be taken. I think it's best to leave it at that. In any case, we hope that a constructive follow-up can take place in this Chamber when we come to talk about it. I was very impressed by the Secretary of State's rhetoric about fiscal greening. However, we should not create the illusion that the Netherlands, with its sustainability policy, excels in its full breadth as the Secretary of State suggests. I see too many European rankings on which the Netherlands figures at the bottom rather than at the top. Whatever is true of the excellence of our fiscal greening performance, there is a great deal on the contrary that still needs to be worked on. As far as I am concerned, this remains a task for the coming years. We have just talked about the structural budget balance as a policy instrument. I was very pleased with the Minister's commitment. He said that he would address this in conjunction with other complexities of the European instruments in Brussels. I wish him every success. We considered tabling a motion to give him some support, but he assured me that this is not necessary. So I am not submitting the motion, but my expectations are very high. I look forward to the result. What threatens us in the future? I said the Minister was an optimistic man. If that's a compliment, I'll leave it in the middle. It is especially important to be realistic. In my opinion, we are in a world with low interest rates and low growth. It's not a pleasant world to live in. It is a world in which it is necessary to save, while it is also very unattractive. It is also a world in which many of our macroeconomic policy instruments are not going to work. The Japanese have had to discover this to their detriment and shame. I'm not against optimism, but I think we should be realistic. I would remind the Minister of what he himself said, namely that we started taking action too late in the previous crisis and found that we had a major problem too late. I appreciate his honesty. I would not like to see the current unpleasant prospect of the future re-establishing over a number of years that we have been blind to the signals for too long and have waited too long to prepare ourselves for the new world. I hope we are not going to see that and I look forward to seeing many of these fine, useful and educational days in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u292	Mr. Chairman. In the first term, I have already expressed my thanks and compliments to Mr Rinnooy Kan for his maiden speech. I am happy to do the same for Mrs Teunissen and Mr Van Rooijen. We look forward to working together. Today, as far as we are concerned, we are right to talk about the greatly improved economic perspective, but also about the need to allow it to land in an increase in purchasing power for the people of the country. This improvement is not the same for everyone, but it is positive for almost everyone and sometimes even quite positive. A focus is on the elderly. People who only enjoy AOW come out pretty well, but especially the second pillar pensioners need attention. We have noted with appreciation the willingness of the Minister of Finance to join the consultation we are holding with the Secretary of State of SZW, if his agenda so permits. At that time we can look closely at the validity of the calculation rate for pensions used in the Netherlands. The debate on the 5 billion package has dominated the debate. In recent years, this house has constantly stressed the need to create jobs and combat unemployment. I think we need to keep this up when there are targeted measures on the table. We should not trade them in for targeted target groups at once, however understandable, because that is what is at stake in the fight against unemployment. I'd be happy to make that call to my colleagues. The Group of the Party of European Socialists has given a rather detailed account of a certain technical problem concerning budgetary rules and budgetary systems, both at European and national level. At European level, the multitude of budgetary rules has been affecting us for several years. The payments are unclear, little transparent and difficult to predict. We call once again on the Cabinet to call for maximum transparency and predictability for the system of payments in Europe, and to take seriously the suggestions made by the General Court of Auditors. We welcome the commitment on the frequently applied cash slides, particularly within the Development Cooperation budget. It has been promised that it will not be charged to current programmes. We must be able to maintain a steady line in development cooperation. In this context, we are satisfied with the commitments that have been made. Finally, I would like to thank both directors for the detailed and convincing way in which they have indicated that they want to tackle the problem of tax avoidance, including from the Dutch responsibility, and in particular that they want to take advantage of the EU Presidency in the next six months.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u293	Mr. Chairman. It seems a long time ago, but I would like to congratulate colleagues Teunissen and Van Rooijen on their maiden speech. The SP Group, of course, thanks the leaders for answering our questions. In the eyes of the SP Group, the crisis is not yet over, as opposed to the proclamation of the PvdA Group. Of course, we can proclaim everything, for example that the weather is nice outside, while the rain is raining. I just read on teletext that code orange has been proclaimed. I do not want to go that far with regard to the state of the Dutch economy, but the fact is that the unemployment crisis is not yet over. I am sorry that the Labour Party stated that the crisis is finally over, while so many people are still not aware of it. What do you mean, the end of the crisis? The crisis is certainly not finally over. That ruling indicates a total under-estimate of the risks, which may be increased by the global economy. On this point, we do not fully share the optimism of the Minister and we are more in agreement with our colleague from D66. I have pointed out a specific risk that I have largely missed in the analysis of the Cabinet and in the reply of the Minister. It's about the financial sector. The 2008 crisis was primarily a banking crisis. In the financial sector, in my group's view, there is still the greatest danger. In the reply, the Minister referred to the need for debt reduction to build a larger buffer capacity to cope with any new blows in a subsequent crisis. In our opinion, prevention is better than cure. Why were the deficits and debts of national governments so high at the time? As the Minister says: because the private losses of banks were socialized, i.e. the account was deposited with the citizens, I say it now in my own words. I have argued before in this House that the SP Group is not yet confident that this danger for the future has been averted. Then I come to the future of monetary union, EMU. I can say that I have read the Five Presidents' Report, and I think I have read it well, because I am not coming to this debate unprepared. The Minister mentioned a distinction between short and long term. Maybe I read the report better than the author himself. The report distinguishes between three different phases, so there is also a medium term. According to the report, in the medium term, we must move towards a more binding nature of the convergence process, whereby certain benchmarks can be transposed into legislation. In the eyes of the SP Group, this is quite far-reaching and is quite a thick piece of salami sausage when it comes to the further erosion of national democracy in the financial and socio-economic fields. Then there is the macroeconomic vision of this cabinet. We had an interesting exchange of views on this this morning. Whether or not the PvdA has said goodbye to Keynes as a party, I note that it is more Colijn than Keynes for this minister. There are also other great economists in history, such as the author of Das Kapital. That was a more innovative book at the time than Piketty's book, although that is also very interesting and worth reading. The SP Group believes that Keynes was much more right at the time in his analysis of the great depression than Colijn. Of course, it is not the crisis of the 1930s or Keynes, but the crisis of 2008 to date.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u294	It is good to mention that we have been in a completely different situation for a number of years than in the 1930s. If you read Keynes correctly, as many Social Democrats are still paying attention and appreciation, you will see that he himself is particularly reluctant to combat a monetary-financial crisis with spending policies. I think you are also wronging my first-term contribution by closing that short by saying that we would no longer embrace Keynesian ideas. I have made it clear that we are committed to no economic theory, but to an ideology of justice and solidarity. There are many ways to find them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u295	I thank Mr Postema for his question. I am pleased to note that, like socialists, social democrats are still aware of Keynes' ideas. In fact, I would have come up with what his question is about, so I would like to serve him, namely on the analysis of the crisis that we have experienced in recent years. I would stress that there is a fundamental difference in vision or in analysis between Mr Postema and me and probably also between the Minister and me. In our analysis, which is shared by many macro economists, such as Nobel laureate Krugman, the crisis of 2008, which Mr Postema calls a monetary-financial crisis, was in many respects similar to that of the 1930s, because it is due to an outage of effective demand. In the event of such a crisis, a balance sheet recess, in which everyone tries to pay off their debts, the government should not start to save. This has been argued not only by Mr Krugman, but also by many other macro economists today, whether or not inspired by Keynes. I'd like to say that again. We disagree on this or we are relying on a different macroeconomic theory, but I have not actually heard an alternative theory from Mr Postema. Mr Postema says it is a monetary and financial crisis. It has indeed started with a banking crisis. Then it went into a major recession. I would add, when it comes to a monetary-financial crisis, that Keynes also argued at the time that the great depression started with the Wall Street Crash, with far too much freedom from the financial sector. Keynes then concluded: let all finance be national. We need to make the banks smaller and make the financial sector serviceable to society instead of having a system where speculation becomes the driving force behind the economy and it becomes a big casino. That's another Keynes quote.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u296	Mr Postema, I give you the opportunity to ask a further question, but I would ask both gentlemen not to have this interesting debate at 11 a.m. anymore, but at another time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u297	Thank you for that. I would argue for myself not to linger in theories. This seems to me to be inappropriate, given the situation we have seen in recent years. The aim is to implement concrete measures and structural reforms. That is exactly what has been done in recent years. You will not catch me with a great theory about this, but with an analysis of reform measures that have been necessary to help us get back on top, as I pointed out in the first period.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u298	I would like to respond to the President's wish by answering this question very briefly. It is not a question of theory, it is an analysis of the causes of the crisis and its solutions. The political groups of Mr Postema and I differ on this. In our analysis, the solution must not be found in so-called structural reforms, but, for example, in a genuine structural reform of the financial sector. At the same time, effective demand could and should have been stimulated much better. Mr. Chairman. The government is assuming a different macroeconomic vision and, on this basis, has pursued a pro-cyclical policy, I repeat. That was also on page 22 of the Macro Economic Exploration. Maybe that wasn't the intention, but it was the outcome. Macro-Economic Recognition speaks of a pro-cyclical impact of policy. With regard to this procyclical policy, the Minister said: austerity is social. I would like to come back to that in the second term. I'm pretty new in this house, but honestly, I've rarely eaten it so salty. In other words, rarely have I heard it so liberally formulated by a Minister of the PvdA House. The Minister's reasoning is that we must now take vulnerable groups with all kinds of austerity measures so that we do not have to hit them even harder in the future. I think that is a curious reasoning. In any case, I note that the crisis is not over for very large groups in our society; not for the long-term unemployed, not for the chronically ill, not for many older people. The crisis is also not over for the 400,000 children who, according to the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau, grow up in poverty in the Netherlands. I drew attention to this in the first place, but I did not hear much about it from the Minister, but perhaps I did not listen to him properly. In any case, my group would like to say once again that it is very regrettable for a rich country like the Netherlands that this is the case. We call on the government to investigate how child poverty can be effectively combated and to report to this Chamber in the near future what measures can be taken. I shall table the next motion for a resolution on this matter. The President shall: Mr Van Apeldoorn, Mr Ester, Mr Teunissen, Mr Vos and Mr Ten Hoeve proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that according to the latest data from the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau, some 400,000 children live below the poverty line in the Netherlands;]] [[Whereas in a rich country such as the Netherlands, it is unacceptable for children to grow up in poverty;]] [[calls on the government to quickly examine how to conduct a coherent policy and to take concrete measures to reduce child poverty in the Netherlands far and wide,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-P]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u299	Mr. Chairman. I too would like to congratulate Mr Rinnooy Kan, Mrs Teunissen and Mr Van Rooijen on their excellent contribution. Of course, I would also like to thank the rulers for their exhaustive and creative response. My group has chosen the following points as its commitment to the assessment of this Millions Note. Is it sufficient to address a number of very important societal challenges, including the lack of work for many people, the environmental shortage, the major international refugee problems and poverty? And is there sufficient financial sustainability? I would like to make a few brief comments on this. I would like to thank the Minister for agreeing to send his analysis of the broader concept of prosperity to the Upper House, as well as to the Lower House. That analysis also covers the financial risks to the climate and the question of what conclusions you should draw from it for your policy. I'm happy about that. With regard to the structural deficit, where the Minister said he would not comply with EU standards, he said that this is a major problem. It would all be so totally unpredictable how the European Commission assesses this, but he is going to do it. However, I would like to tell him: is it not true that the cabinet's proposals do too little about the structural strengthening of the economy? Is there not a problem there and is that not the reason why the structural deficit is rising rather than falling? A third brief comment concerns the budget for development cooperation, which is now being spent on the first-year reception of asylum seekers. The Minister says that's the deal. It's okay, considering international rules, so that's how we do it. I think that's a bit of an answer: we do it this way, because that's how we do it. My point is that this is a very big issue that we will not be finished with in the coming years. Shouldn't we look at that differently? Should we not say, like Germany, that the whole budget should pay for this and that we should do it from the general budget? I would like to emphasise this once again. Then I come to the 5 billion package. The cabinet says it has put this into practice in such a way that it really provides maximum employment and maximum employment rates. To be honest, it is difficult for my group to believe that this is indeed the best package in this respect. We believe that more could have been done in the area of employment. The Minister has not been able to convince us on this point. Another interesting discussion is of course about greening. The Secretary of State had extremely interesting answers to that, for which I thank him very much. Of course, I would like to enter into the further debate with him when the Tax Plan is here and we can properly assess his proposals. However, I would like to make a few small shots in advance. I do not share his belief in the current emissions trading system. I am extremely critical of that. I am therefore happy to discuss this further with him, as well as the debate on the usefulness of coal taxation or increasing the tax on large consumers. The Secretary of State made the following remark: the CO reduction is going very well and in 2020 we are at -24%. To be honest, I can't put that on the table, and I'd like to get back to him on that, too. In my view, the National Energy Exploratory is counting on us to make it 18% to 19%. The problem is also that after 2020 it seems to be falling completely silent. That's what the Strike motion is about. We ask the cabinet: go on, because we are far from there. On climate, like Mr Rinnooy Kan, I believe that the Netherlands is failing in a number of important points. As things stand at present, we do not achieve the mission of the energy agreement. The judge says we need to do more. We are behind in terms of energy saving and renewable energy. I would therefore ask the Cabinet to do what is necessary and take everything out of the closet. As far as I am concerned, this could be done in the area of energy saving in the built environment. There are incredibly many opportunities that are not being grasped. There is a large budget ready for the housing corporations, which is not being used sufficiently. Offices there can make things much more sustainable, but they just don't do it there. I would therefore like to call upon the cabinet to take action. The President shall: Mr Vos, Mr Rinnooy Kan, Mr Van Apeldoorn, Mr Ten Hoeve, Mr Teunissen and Mr Ester proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas, as a result of the judgment of the court, the Netherlands should take additional measures in the short term to achieve a minimum of 25% CO reduction by 2020;]] [[Whereas there is a high potential for energy savings in the built environment;]] [[Whereas investments in energy saving in homes and buildings, and in concepts such as zero-on-the-meter, not only lead to energy saving and CO reduction, but also to additional employment and economic strengthening;]] [[Whereas the existing instruments and financial resources to maximise the potential for energy saving are not being used effectively;]] [[calls on the Government to adopt an approach to ensure that existing instruments and financial resources for energy saving in the built environment are used quickly and effectively, so as to maximise the potential for energy saving,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-Q]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u300	Mr. Chairman. We look back on a long and intensive debate. That was necessary, too. My group thanks the Minister and the Secretary of State for answering our questions. Many thanks also to the officials, who, until this late hour, support both directors. I always have a lot of respect for that. Congratulations to Mrs Teunissen and Mr Van Rooijen on their maiden speeches. The Dutch economy is better. That's a lot of gratitude. However, we are far from there. Last week's CBS figures showed this again. The international context is highly uncertain, developments in China will affect us, the Greek crisis is threatening to re-emerge and the impact of the refugee problem will not be overlooked. We'll just have to pull the wallet. We're rich enough for that, by the way. My group is in favour of a structural provision for reception, so that we do not have to be taken out of occasional facilities year after year. At the same time, we stress that this should certainly not be at the expense of regular posts in the budget for development cooperation. I would just like to refer to the motion for a resolution, Mr Slob. The terrorist attacks in Paris are confronting us with the question of whether we are making enough money for our security and defence. Do we have our institutions in financial order in that respect? Here too, we can no longer be satisfied with a few occasional adjustments. My group therefore calls for an in-depth assessment of the current budgetary effort and, where necessary, for additional measures to maintain our security infrastructure. A lot has been said today about greening. My group believes that the Netherlands should make much more of the greening of our economy. That goes too slowly and with too little ambition. The Millionnota does not exude the sense of urgency that is part of this reform mission. Greening, the transition to a low-carbon energy supply and a circular economy need to be taken much more forward in line with the views of my group. Hopefully, the international climate convention will give an important impetus to this later this month in Paris. The Secretary of State excels in verbal acrobatics to complain about the use of taxation for the greening of our economy, but he does not really come from his instrumentalist cocoon. We want to challenge him to be much more creative about this. If certain instruments do not help to achieve greening, they simply need to look for more effective instruments. The attracting economy obliges us to allow populations to share in the recovery in a just way. That is something the Christian Union group is not comfortable with. I refer to last week's political debate on the Tax Plan. In short, vulnerable families are left behind by the earners, the chronically ill and the disabled. For my group, this is an issue in the assessment of the Tax Plan and whether we can support it, including the subject of greening which I have just mentioned. The acid of the crisis was unevenly distributed, but that is also a bit threatening for the sweet of recovery. In our debate next month on the Tax Plan, this issue will come back in full. We expect, at least, a much clearer direction from the cabinet. Government is more than bidding against one another for parliamentary groups, the results of which may or may not be sealed off by the Central Planning Bureau. Tax policy also needs vision. Following our discussion on taxation and household form, I ask the Secretary of State to put some initial thoughts on paper in preparation for our debate on the Tax Plan. We do not expect a detailed contribution, but a first intelligent kick-off of the issue we are talking about. My group is very concerned about the extent of unemployment in the Netherlands. It is difficult for the Christian Union to say such words as economic recovery and economic optimism in the knowledge that 600,000 Dutch people are unemployed. What is particularly worrying is the size of the long-term unemployed group, people who are unemployed for more than a year. That is almost half the number of unemployed at the moment. Especially for the elderly among them, this situation is not very encouraging. That is unacceptable in the eyes of my group and also today in the eyes of many other groups. My group fears that the reduction of the burden on labour, however important, will not provide sufficient relief here. My group calls on the cabinet to take much more out of the closet here. We cannot afford to keep such a large group out of perspective for so long. The government can't do that alone; we realize that very well. Social partners, employers and employees are indispensable.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u301	Do you keep an eye on time, Mr. Ester?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u302	My group will therefore table the next motion for a resolution. You'll be served at your beck and call, Mr. Chairman. The President shall: Mr Ester, Mr Hoekstra, Mr Van Apeldoorn, Mr Vos, Mr Van Rooijen, Mr Ten Hoeve, Mr Rinnooy Kan, Mr Koffeman, Mr Teunissen and Mr Schalk proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas some 600,000 people are unemployed in the Netherlands;]] [[having noted that more than four out of ten unemployed are long-term unemployed;]] [[Whereas the labour market perspective of the long-term unemployed is worrying;]] [[calls on the Government to ask the Economic and Social Council for an opinion on the labour market position of the long-term unemployed;]] [[Invites the Government, on the basis of this opinion, to come forward with proposals on how to improve the labour market position of the long-term unemployed and to report to the Court before the summer of 2016,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-R]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u303	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to congratulate my colleagues Rinnooy Kan and Van Rooijen on their maiden speech. I thank the Minister and the Secretary of State for the answers. As far as the points I have just raised are concerned, I am pleased that the Minister has indicated that GDP cannot be seen as the only measure of prosperity, but I think that the other indicators are too unaccountable in qualitative and quantitative terms. I therefore ask the cabinet to become more concrete in this. I understand that the Minister is very bound by the existing frame, in which everything worthwhile is only really worthwhile when it can be expressed in money, especially during the General Financial Reviews. The Minister has only briefly addressed my question about how he sees the enormous ecological deficit of 30% and the overload of the earth, including deforestation, water shortages, soil erosion and climate change, in relation to the much smaller financial deficit. Does the Minister recognise that Earth Overshoot Day falls worldwide on August 13th, but considered from the Dutch situation even in April? In concrete terms, this means that our way of consuming means that the pantry for this year was already empty after three months. How do you justify such a thing? How can you justify that to future generations? Of course, the supermarkets are buzzing out, but if it rakes disproportionately at our part of the world and even requires an advance on an uncertain future, my group does not think it can be justified. Can the Minister indicate how he is going to reduce that ecological budget deficit and what timetable he is going to link it to? With regard to the development budget, does the Minister indicate that funding for refugee reception will not have a detrimental effect on current projects, but can he also undertake not to advance on future projects and thus on future generations, also given the fact that refugee flows and poverty are expected to increase only if we do not tackle the climate problem better? With regard to bank buffers, I welcome the Minister's commitment. I hope that in his letter he makes clear in concrete terms how big the bank buffers should be and when that result should have been achieved. I hope that the Minister does not reflect on other countries but accepts his own responsibility. I also expect him to clearly outline the risks to the public authorities in the intervening period when the banks are unable to meet their payment obligations at any time. I have asked about the activities of the Cabinet since 2008 to carry out the Schuurman motion. I didn't get an answer to that. I hope that the absence of an answer will not be sufficient for the efforts that have been made on this point, or rather: have not been made. I hope that the failure to answer it is based on a misunderstanding, because if it is not, it would be ignoring a wide-ranging desire in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u304	Mr. Chairman. I congratulated Mr Rinnooy Kan and Mrs Teunissen and I wished Mr Van Rooijen strength, but I should also like to congratulate him on his maiden speech. Of course, I would like to thank the directors very much for answering all the questions and also for the debate we have had with each other. There's been a lot of change. I was pleased with the words of the Minister on Security and Justice that they are trying to bring that into calmer waters. I also liked to exchange with him around the Defense Department and to hear from him that there is constant attention, just for terror threats and so on. Subsequently, a large part of my input was about the position of a earner relative to two-earners. I deliberately did that because I wanted to clarify the cabinet in good time. I referred once again to the hand-out given by CDA, Christian Union and SGP. I still think it is a pity that the calculation model, which we have exchanged extensively, is leading rather than common sense. In other words, the amendment has not been judged on its merits as it is intended, in my humble opinion. It therefore appears that the SGP will not be able to give its support to the Tax Plan that lies here over time. Since they've been asked to do that, I'd like to point that out. This has already happened in 2001, under the Income Tax Act 2001. That tax review was concerned with a particular subject. It may surprise the Chamber now, but it was about the one and two earners. So some consistency is not strange to us. Finally. I know that the Secretary of State has also stated that there has been an enormous amount of work across the board to get these issues through both chambers in a good way. The SGP has also done a great deal about this. If the Secretary of State sees any other possibilities, I'd love to hear it. You could say it's not too late. It could be that if the Secretary of State answers, it's literally about five to twelve, but it's also figuratively five to twelve. That means plenty of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u305	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank my fellow Members, Mrs Teunissen and Mr Rinnooy Kan, for their congratulations. I would also like to thank colleagues for their appreciation of my contribution, my maiden speech. I look forward to constructive cooperation with colleagues. I thank the Minister and the Secretary of State for their answers. The Minister is prepared, as he said yesterday, to monitor interest rates, also in relation to the pension issue. I asked the minister if the mind didn't stand very still and was poured into concrete. The Minister denied this. He was quite willing to keep thinking and talking. I welcome Mr Postema's willingness, if his agenda permits, to attend a committee meeting of the Committee on Social Affairs and Employment with the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment, also because this is an excellent subject which the Minister is addressing. The Secretary of State would answer the tax questions and points, but I do think he has been economical in that regard. We are consoled by the idea that the Secretary of State knows that, and this is something he will take note of, that these issues are dealt with in detail in the Tax Plan. We will therefore pay a great deal of attention to the principle of capacity. I agree with what Mr Ester said about it. If the Minister wished to give us a more detailed written consideration in advance, that would clarify the debate on this important issue. Indeed, the difference in treatment between workers and non-workers is very fundamental. The Secretary of State has motivated this difference, among other things, with the statement that the building of prosperity is crucial, and is actually the starting point. The workers of today are the elderly of later. I then simply reversed it, in the sense that the older people of today were the workers of that time and are also entitled to equal treatment. As far as we are concerned, the promotion of employment is too central to income tax. The Minister made it even more colourful in that respect. He said that if he had ten or 15 billion, I pointed out in my speech that he would do the same, just because that would be good for the promotion of employment. I do not think that the income tax system is primarily designed for this purpose. I also mentioned the combination of no indexation of pensions and the structural lack of sharing in tax cuts. That's not just something that's been going on lately, that's not indexing. It's gonna be with us for a long time. If, on top of that, we do not share in this tax reduction, so every year we are not familiar with the story of the new bicycle and the repair of the flat tyre, then that is not fair. We will not stop fighting for equal treatment. Finally, I agree with what Mr Schalk said. It's five to twelve, all right. The cabinet has examined the traditional routes of tolerance, but one simple calculation shows that in this house completely different coalition possibilities have arisen, in any case numerically. I would ask the Secretary of State, in the interests of our elders, to examine this route carefully five to twelve.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u306	Mr. Chairman. I have listened with great pleasure to the Minister and the Secretary of State. I would like to thank them for their extensive exhibitions. The central point in my first term was that we have a period of constant austerity and that these routes are still running. We have not yet reached the end of it either. We have not yet reached the point of a surplus in the budget. So the question is whether it is right to use a movement on the other side now, a movement towards relief and spending more money on certain points. The answer to that question naturally depends on its usefulness. What are the benefits of this measure? Put that against the point of further savings until we have reached the end. I can't make that decision right now. The question of how fair the measures are, also plays a role in this. We are getting new proposals from the government. We have to wait for that. There's also a letter about Security and Justice. This also plays a role in this context. If we have that completely on the table, we will be given the opportunity to give our opinion when dealing with the Tax Plan. I would remind the rulers of the letter from the 234 congregations. We've saddled it with a lot of problems. In many cases, they're running into that now too. That needs to be looked at carefully. It will be discussed. Perhaps it would be useful for the government to bear in mind that looking again at the municipal tax area could be useful and that the willingness to organise the operation of the Municipal Fund in a different way might also help. There are very specific problems at the moment, especially when we are talking about so much money.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u307	Thank you. I note that the rulers can answer directly. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u308	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Members for their second-term questions and comments. There haven't been so many questions asked. There have been motions. The Secretary of State will deal with a few motions. I'll handle the other one. On the 5 billion package in general, several Members have indicated that they are still hoping for constructive dialogue and open to it. They point to different possibilities and coalitions. That gives me a bit of optimism at the end of this debate. We will be committed to this, because the importance is very great. I realize that there are parties that would have wanted to do it more, bigger or different. Even so, it is our duty, but that may be my view, to try to find each other in it and forge workable majorities. This is important now and here, but also in view of the political stability of the Netherlands. Why has the Netherlands been able to put the budget in order to a large extent in recent years? Why has the Netherlands been able to implement some very difficult reforms in recent years? Because there was willingness, broad and in varying composition, to seek that cooperation. I am very aware of the sense of urgency. In the debate it has been said a few times that the Cabinet or the Millions' Note would not give rise to a sense of urgency, but in all honesty, my observation is that the sense of urgency for cooperation, that we have had a wide range in both Chambers over the last few years, is now apparently gone, if this problem already exists. I do feel the urgency of working together. However, I also feel that the broader sense of urgency is threatening to run away. This would be really damaging to the Netherlands: for the Dutch economy, for the recovery and for the measures needed. So we continue to work for this. Mr Rinnooy Kan owes me one last response. He mentioned our discussion about optimism and pessimism. I am naturally an optimist and always try to control myself and watch over pessimism. I do so by sticking to the facts as much as possible and by sticking to the estimates and expectations of the future of others who are better at it: from the CPB, from the IMF, which gives estimates for Europe, the Netherlands and the world, and so on. They give the estimates. I don't tend to go over that myself and say that I expect it to be even better. It's not like that. I think it is more important that Mr Rinnooy and I agree on the following. Indeed, given the current economic climate and the challenges facing Europe, such as the ageing population, there is a risk of stagnation. The key question is what is our duty, what should we do to avoid that risk. That is the broader reform agenda. There may be political differences as to how far, how deep and how fast that should be, but we will have to take further steps in a number of areas: the housing market, the labour market and the pension system. I think Mr Rinnooy and I are both convinced of that. I have only heard the SP Group say that it does not believe in this reform agenda. It is looking for everything in the banking sector, which has indeed not yet been completed in terms of reforms. In that I agree with the SP again. So our mission is not so much to disagree or agree on optimism or pessimism, but to offer an action perspective. What can we do? That is what this debate was about, as far as I am concerned. The debate on interest rates and pension funds will continue in this Chamber, with the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and myself. Mr Postema reiterated the importance of making payments to the EU more predictable and transparent. I very much agree with that. After the great post-tax situation, we have also agreed with the European Commission on a number of improvements in terms of predictability and transparency, on making the underlying figures available, on fixed dates of post-taxation and also on a fixed time of payment, namely six months later. This can prevent an acute problem for many countries. For example, there are a number of other improvements to be made in this area. We are also in discussions in the Netherlands with the Court of Auditors on the national statement and on whether the payment should be included in it. Mr Van Apeldoorn again had the discussion on Keynes. I will not do that now, but the point is that the position of the SP in terms of austerity or not would be more credible if there were also times when the SP could support austerity. That is, of course, the problem. If you don't want to cut back in bad times, are you willing to put the budget in order in good times? This will be even more urgent. There's a bit of the proof of the pudding there. Yes, if you put the budget into safe water and put buffers in it, you can also take the hits in good times. That's true. Mr Van Apeldoorn was very surprised. I think he used the phrase "I've never eaten it this salty." And yes, it is true that it protects the most vulnerable in society. However, Mr Van Apeldoorn may think otherwise. But once again, credibility will increase if the SP can also indicate when it wants to put the budget in order, if it is not now, not yesterday and not the day before yesterday. Mrs Vos warned once again about the structural deficit. It has indicated that measures must be taken to this end. I assume that it is referring to structural reforms to further strengthen the economy in order to reduce the structural deficit along that path. Of course, I agree with her in a general sense. We're not on our hands either. It also considers that the additional expenditure on asylum should come from the general budget. That is of course always the most attractive route because it suggests that there is an infinite pot of money somewhere, but in that sense the general means do not exist. We have put the resources we have into budgets. They have a purpose. Anyway, the summary of what Mrs Vos is saying is that it is then in deficit. We do indeed have a different view on this. We believe it is legitimate to finance the additional expenditure on asylum from the ODA funds. Mrs Vos has also tabled a motion on renewable energy. I'll be right there. Mr Ester also made a comment on asylum. He has made a lot of comments, but those were more conclusions than there were questions for me. He also felt that there should be more structural funding for asylum expenditure. We have also increased the estimates for a long time, but at the moment I do not have the reason to continue this increase to an inflow of 58 000 for an indefinite period of time in the future. That would not really be substantiated at the moment, but next year we will take that kind of number into account for the time being. That is why we have not systematically increased the amounts. However, we have increased them, even in the years to come. Mrs Teunissen once again referred to the ecological deficit. The House of Representatives has set up a parliamentary inquiry or a parliamentary working group to re-develop and further develop the broader concept of prosperity; I thought Mrs Vos also referred to it. If there is a report and the committee and the Chamber itself have had a debate on it, the cabinet will send a response. That is also the normal course of action. I therefore propose that we continue the discussion on how to give it practical hands and feet, because that is, of course, the wish of Mrs Teunissen and Mrs Vos. We can then involve the work of the Dutch Parliamentary Committee which is currently working on this. I didn't know in all honesty that Earth Overshoot Day will be reached in the Netherlands in April, but now I'm going to speed up my work. That's how I learned today. We are going to send this Chamber a letter on the total of capital requirements, buffer requirements and so on. I think this is enlightening, because a great deal has happened and is still happening. Mrs Teunissen asked what would happen in the intervening period if the buffers were not yet in order. The demands are now coming in very quickly. On 1 January 2016, very soon, deeper bail-in requirements will apply. This means that if banks get into trouble and suffer large losses or even have to be settled, banks and investors in those banks will have to bear the losses themselves. Capital requirements are already based on this. That does not mean that we are now living risk-free. In the coming years, for example, the government will still guarantee the resolution fund that serves as a back-up. So the risks aren't 100% gone. I could never say that. However, they have been substantially reduced and are quickly further reduced. Mrs Teunissen also asked about the Schuurman motion. That motion was tabled by Mr Egbert Schuurman, who I remember as professor from Wageningen and who was also a long-time member of this Chamber. In that 2008 motion, he established a link between financial crisis, sustainability crisis, food crisis and so on. Of course, the cabinet has an approach in all these areas. In part, there is also coherence and overlap. I would just like to refer to the discussion I had with Mrs Vos on the financial risks arising from climate change, on which we will return. There is overlap and coherence in many areas. Then that's what we're gonna do. This is the case, for example, with regard to the financial problems, the climate problems and the risks that exist between these two fields. The Secretary of State may reply to Mr Ten Hoeve's comment on the municipal tax area, with which he ended his speech, and on the adjustments in and the system of the Municipal Fund. I don't know if the Secretary of State had that on his list. Otherwise, it's gonna stay down.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u309	I have a brief question on Professor Schuurman's motion. Is it true that nothing concrete has emerged from that, in the sense of a note on how the cabinet sees this coherent policy? The answer I hear now is: we have actually continued on the road we have already been going. But that motion is an indication that that was not enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u310	I should actually go back in parliamentary history, but I would like to say that in a note there was a written response to the Schuurman motion. It's been a while. Then we should completely reconstruct what happened to that note and how it was translated into policy. I can't do that right now. I just say: yes, these crises are all on our plate and will have to be picked up in parallel. In some areas, I mentioned an example of this, there really is overlap and coherence. That's why we're putting them in the picture. That is what we are answering. But if Mrs Teunissen asks me exactly what happened to that motion, that note and so on, then I must say that I cannot reconstruct it now. That was seven years ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u311	I can understand that. Here's what I'm talking about. I would like to see this coherence seen more concretely and more concretely in policy. Can the Minister make the point that the coherence between the financial crisis and the other crises becomes clear in the policy? Now it is in different policy areas, but it is not becoming concrete at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u312	Where there is this coherence, we are putting it in the picture. At the moment, what is very topical is the debate on how climate and energy problems will affect our financial stability, the economy, investment, pension funds and even public finances. I have promised Mrs Vos that, following an opinion from DNB, which we also respond to, we will indicate how we mitigate or prevent these risks. This is an example of where this type of crisis really hits each other. Where these examples are serious, we take them seriously. Then I'll come to the motions. I have indeed failed to address Mr Van Apeldoorn in the first place. That was about kids living below the poverty line. That is a major concern for all of us. Combating it is certainly a priority of the cabinet. It's in Secretary of State Klijnsma's wallet. In the coalition agreement, 100 million have been made structurally available for the intensification of poverty and debt policies. Most of them go to the municipalities, which are responsible for this and are best equipped for it. Research shows that municipalities pay a great deal of attention to the problem of children in poverty. In addition to municipal policy, the government grants funding to the Youth Sports Fund, the Youth Culture Fund and the Leergeld Foundation. There are additional resources for the Sport impulse, aimed at children in low-income neighborhoods. Finally, the Cabinet supports the development and roll-out of a child package, following a call from the Children's Ombudsman. This is brought to the attention of the municipalities. Research is now also being carried out into how municipalities shape this child package to support children in poverty. My opinion on the motion would be to hold it and to discuss it further in a debate with Secretary of State Klijnsma. Then it can indicate whether it sees opportunities to do even more than anything it already does at the moment. That would be my advice to the Chamber. That's the motion on piece P. Then I come to the motion for a resolution, part Q, on tackling energy saving. The portal of the motion is very much in line with the ibo (interdepartmental policy research) for CO, or in full: towards the cost-effectiveness of CO measures. On this basis, the cabinet will adopt its position in the first half of next year and present a list of potential measures. In that sense, I can see her as a support for policy and leave it to the Chamber to decide. The Ester c.s. motion. The Committee on Social Affairs, Employment and the Working Environment adopted its Opinion on the proposal for a Council Regulation amending Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71 on the application of social security schemes to employed persons, to self-employed persons and to members of their families moving within the Community and to members of their I am going to discourage this motion, because an ESC opinion on unemployment has been published this year. The cabinet response will be sent to the Second and First Chambers before the budgetary treatment of SZW. The ESC naturally also pays attention to long-term unemployment. It is too far-reaching to go into all the opinions and the whole content of the ESC opinion. In our opinion, asking for a new ESC opinion is not the way forward either. Mr Ester may wish to continue his motion pending the cabinet response to the ESC report that is already on the table. We can then further examine whether this is sufficient or whether more work needs to be done. Otherwise, I'd like to dissuade her. The other motions will be dealt with by the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u313	Thank you. I now give the floor to the Secretary of State for Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u314	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I come to Mr Hoekstra, including the motion in part O. I tried to explain the link between box 3 and the tax plan. That explanation didn't come across. Probably I wasn't in my instrumentalist cocoon for a while. The later it gets, the more I get out of that cocoon. I understand the request. I'm gonna have to take it to the cabinet. My proposal would be that I should give the judgment of the cabinet by letter before the votes. Mr De Grave has asked me to return to the balance between different axes in the debate on the Tax Plan. I took good note of that. Mr Rinnooy Kan has said something about 'optimism' in my direction, but in combination with the word 'not'. He also said that he hoped for a "constructive sequel." Although it may be a code word, I also hope for a constructive follow-up. I will start to think deeply about this constructive follow-up. It's gonna be some kind of game of Cluedo. Where's the gun? But I need to be able to figure that out. Finally, Mr Schalk and Mr Van Rooijen both hinted at a five-for-twelve discussion. I've heard that, too. Mr Ten Hoeve asked about the possibility of revising the system of the Municipal Fund. That should be the accressystematiek. It's being evaluated right now. The standards and the like are far from being as they should be. There'll be a report to the Chamber next year. This question could perhaps be answered in exactly the same way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-8.u315	I propose that we vote next Tuesday on the motions tabled. That is what is decided.
