ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u1	I understand that the Secretary of State for Security and Justice will speak first.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u2	Mr. Chairman. The Chamber has clearly indicated that it would prefer to be able to ask more factual questions to me and Mr Van der Steur before we get to the answer by the Prime Minister, who, speaking for himself, will answer questions on political direction and political interpretation. Let me also, from my place, thank the Oosting Committee for the many hard work and the very clear report, which contains clear conclusions, which, understandably, give a firm input from your Chamber in the first term and the necessary questions, to which I will be happy to answer. My intention is to do so, in terms of my role and my involvement, in chronology, but also to reflect on it during the discussion of what actually happened, as the Chamber asked me. There were quite rightly many questions about my involvement in my capacity as a Member of Parliament. That involvement was indeed there. There was at different times. In itself, it is not unusual for there to be such involvement and contacts between directors and MPs, but I fully recognise that there are limits to that. So I won't say: it's perfectly normal that there's contact, so every contact is perfectly normal. Let me start with March 4th itself. It was said that it was quite a coincidence that you were already there. Yeah, that's the reality sometimes. I had an appointment with Minister Opstelten to update him on the campaign and the messages of the upcoming campaign weekend. That wasn't an exciting deal. I sometimes thought afterwards: I would have preferred to fly in Maastricht that day, I wouldn't have been in The Hague and I wouldn't have gotten involved either. But it's the way it is. I was there. We had that conversation. Then there was an announcement at the Ministry that Newsuur would bring news about the settlement that evening. Then the minister said, "Hey, if you're here, check it out." That didn't start immediately with a draft press release. That started with a conversation about what would come and what it was like. At some point someone comes in with a draft press release. They're being handed out and I've got one right in front of me. Afterwards, I should at least have taken a pause for thought and noted that discussing the draft press release was a step too far. That didn't happen. It happened that I got something in front of me, that I read it, and that I was immediately amazed at the fact that there was something denied that I wouldn't know why you had to deny it if you didn't know what it was about or at least what it was about. Because at that time the state of affairs that Minister Opstelten had informed the Chamber was not the amount I mentioned earlier, and I do not know what the amount is; I am sorry, I may have to accept that I will never be able to clarify it. If you tell the Chamber you don't know yourself, how can you deny someone else's money? But again, at that time I would have done much better to say: this is a real press release, this is really up to you. Perhaps I could have said: my eye falls on this, I would not do that. But "hands off," I didn't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u3	Were you done with this part?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u4	This is my reflection at the moment when I have crossed a line that I am now saying: it is purer not to advise on such a press release in your role as a Member of Parliament. I don't mean to say I didn't write along. Nor can I say that, when I left there, I felt that the final press release was my responsibility or that it was as I would have done it. On two points there was a clear indication, but then I come to the content. If there are any questions about my reflection at the time, then they are in order. Makes sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u5	I think it is very important for the Secretary of State to state that he was in the wrong place and should not have been there. Does that also apply to Mr Van der Steur as far as he is concerned?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u6	Mr President,......................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u7	The Minister of Security and Justice will be speaking shortly. Then you can ask him the same question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u8	Then I'm going to ask that question, because last week the Minister explained so thoroughly that it was normal. I'm very glad it's at least a completely different story now. On that day, something happened which remains very strange. It gives the impression that the amount that Nieuwsuur had finally presented was going around, and that indeed much more than you are now saying was clear that at least denying it, without or with the 4.7 million, would not be the truth. How is it that there's a MP in there who shouldn't have been sitting there? However, you sat there and took part in a press release that didn't add up. How can you explain that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u9	The parts of the press release that didn't add up went out, too. Let me put it this way: I shouldn't have been there, so we might have had an even worse press release. It would have been. It wasn't up to me. That 4.7 million from the concept didn't come from the Ministry. It came from Nieuwsuur. News hours had announced at the Ministry: we come with this tonight, if you want to respond, then we can take your response with us on the broadcast. So that 4.7 million came from Newsuur. The concept reaction said that was wrong. That denied it. They say, "How can you deny it?" Do you know what it is? Or are you sure this isn't it? If you don't know that, you can't deny it. Then there was a conversation in which it was said: no, we do not know what the amount is. Mr Teeven was also present and mumbled a bit about amounts. He also mentioned 4.8 million. Then I said, "That's a lot like it." Then he said, no, that was a part plus 2,3 is 7.1. In other words, it was not. Those numbers didn't come to me with quotes from a report, just to be clear. That wasn't till Monday. At the time those numbers came to me, I could in any case very well imagine the conclusion that there were not really sufficient substantiated grounds to name a number.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u10	What you're saying is quite striking. You say that Mr Bitch was there. I checked the report, and the crazy part is that it says he wasn't there. Mr Teeven had a separate discussion with the Minister, together with the DG, I think. At the meeting where you were, Mr Van der Steur, a pa and a spokesperson were also present. Then, for example, I do not understand why it was not fairly included in the answers that Mr Teeven was present. In fact, you say mumble now. I do not know how Mr Bitch sees it; I understand that he is not here. You say he mumbled the amount. As a matter of fact, it's the right amount. You're doing it again. You're mucking away the fact that the truth was already on the trail that day. If you come near that, you can at least not agree with a press release that says: "The claim of Nieuwsuur that the Minister has misinformed the House of Representatives is incorrect." No, that claim was correct. That's what you heard on that day.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u11	Those are two different things, and maybe more. I believe that we indicated in our reply to the Chamber that Mr Teeven was present on 4 March and that he said so. He walked in and came back. That's what we indicated in there. That conversation was already going on. He returned from where he had gone, came in, started taking part in the conversation and indicated it. Of course, when the amount of 4.8 million was mentioned, I also asked: isn't that the amount? The answer to my question was: no, because there was another component. It doesn't make me happy to have to add up every time, but that's the way it is. So I asked, isn't that the same amount? That's it, except for 0.1. The answer was: no, because you have to add something to that, because the 4.8 was just the interest rate and the basic amount, so it's not. So at that moment I also asked: is that new? Then I was informed: the Chamber has already been informed that Fred Teeven had memories, shared in the light of Van Brummen's investigation, and Van Brummen has made a conclusion. Then my reaction and that of Mr Van der Steur, who will say so himself, was: put that in the press release. News hours would also tell us that Fred Teeven knew things. That has also been the subject of the press release. The fact that this discussion is being held confirms that I should have left there earlier, but I did not feel responsible for the final product. I didn't agree. I didn't think this press release was brilliant. Well, there are two things that I could test that I didn't find useful changed. At that time the latest information from Minister Opstelten to the Chamber was: I do not know any amount. So at the time that Newsuur said "it's 4.7 million" the minister said that it was 2 million, that 2 million was withdrawn again. That is what the first sentence refers to. That was also certain; there were several questions about certainty, but the two points that have changed are as I said.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u12	It's kind of a weird show when you hear it like that. We've been asking for it for a long time. We've asked a lot of questions about it. Now the Secretary of State says: yes, perhaps it was a bit clumsy to sit there. We have had a whole speech here today. Everyone, up to the Prime Minister, says: it all went well. Is it supposed to try to apologize here with one apology, just keep shoving the rest under the carpet?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u13	No. I understand that Mr Roemer says that a lot of questions have been asked. To be honest, I am pleased that for the first time I can give an answer, tell myself how I have lived and reflected those days at the time I think: the logical contact between directors and MPs in that situation turns into a less appropriate participation in a conversation. I think so. If Mr Roemer finds it a pity that I acknowledge that, I find it difficult to place it. I am here trying to tell the House at the request of the House how it went, how I remember it and how I reflect on it what was useful and what wasn't. That's all I can make of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u14	Let's just get the facts. You were a Member of Parliament at the time. You were given information at that time that I don't know how long the Chamber asked for. You've seen information. And whether Mr. Teven mumbled it or made it quite clear, you heard it. So a lot of information has come to you as a Member of Parliament, even parts of a discussion report. And there was never a ring of bells: I will inform the group chairman, I will have to do something else and I will ask questions, because now my integrity as a Member of Parliament is at stake. We had to wait until you could finally come and do your story in another position.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u15	This way, of course, we can dive into a new corner every time. I was there on March 4th. That's when the interview report didn't come. Then it was told about memories. That's what I was working on. Then it was told: yes, but they were also taken, who were examined, the Chamber knows that. I wasn't the one having the debate, so I haven't been to the confidential inspection of Van Brummen's report myself. So I don't know what's in there either. To be honest, I still haven't seen it. The moment the information came, I tried to test in those few hours whether that information was new or something like: ho once, we didn't know this. Exactly what Mr Roemer says. At that time it was always said: no, Van Brummen took it. In itself, it is. That we now know, thanks to the Oosting Committee, that that research was inadequate, I now know that too. At that time I experienced it in such a way that there was a press release in which two changes were made for the better, including on my advice. No different than that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u16	Finally, Mr Roemer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u17	And you still don't feel... Look, the Cabinet has an active duty of information. You were there as a Member of Parliament. You've seen confidential information. You have been given information that you thought is exactly what the Chamber has been looking for all this time. And you still do not realize that we are all thinking here: why did he help to withhold that information?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u18	I can't go along with this. I have not at any time had the thought of encountering information revealing something that the Chamber has been remembering after some serious questions. I didn't feel like I was covering for anything either. I was just preventing things from happening that weren't right and sending the Chamber into the woods. That's been at two times. There was that Wednesday. Then it came Monday. That's when the receipt was found. Then, of course, I went to the department with an even more astonishing attitude. Mr Klaver asked me: what questions did you ask? I'll tell you what I'm gonna do later. There's a lot of them. Of course, I had those questions, too. That conversation did not lead to a new letter to the Chamber. That conversation led to the Minister who came to the conclusion that it was no longer sustainable.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u19	I want to believe that the Secretary of State, as a Member of Parliament and campaign leader, is by chance at the Ministry on 4 March, does not feel senang there and ultimately experiences something he has just said: it has crossed a line. Then why didn't he intervene when colleague Van der Steur came in? And why did both gentlemen come back for the same setting a few days after that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u20	When the press release came, Mr Van der Steur was already present. It's not like I could say, "Get out of here." At that time, as I say now, I did not experience it as well. I'm gonna look back now and draw a line. Now it is said that not only the changes we charge you, but also the end product. So, even if you didn't agree, type or think about it, we'll charge you for that, because you were there. That makes it even stronger that you say: if you want to have a pure moment to prevent this, you just don't have to do it with a press release like that. On Monday we were further, because the receipt was found. We did not immediately have the impression, neither did I, that the line of defence, as it is called, was tested. That is something you must take critically. The instinct reflex would be to embrace that. The Minister's request was: come and test critically if what we have invented is true. I was in that part then. One of the things that was said was that we also stated in the reply... was that Monday was still the thought of saying: thanks to the information from Newsuur we were able to find it and that it was very difficult and technical. I understand that it was very technical for some people, but it wasn't that complicated if you had the right specialists. That information could have been found years earlier. Then your surprise gets bigger and there's a conversation. That conversation wasn't conclusive. You felt something during that conversation. I did not go in a positive direction, and apparently neither did the Minister at the time, because, on the basis of that discussion and the critical questioning, he concluded that it was not sustainable.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u21	I think the Secretary of State is fair, but, frankly, it's not getting any better. For the chairman of the political group has just stated that the presence of the two Members of Parliament did not change with him either on the fourth or on the ninth, that none of that was linked back to him and that there was no intermediate telephone traffic. Now the Secretary of State himself says that he actually felt the first time he wasn't supposed to be there, that there was another colleague who was also talking about the content and that they were coming back. That first time, Secretary of State Teeven mumbled an amount of 4.8; or not mumbled. The Director-General, who has looked at all this, then quotes it from a not very long note, from the notes. It also contains the amount of 4.8. And let Newsuur talk about 4.7! Then a Member of Parliament had all that Wednesday or Thursday and certainly that Monday all the reason to say: Minister Opstelten pick it out! And I quote Mr Dijkhoff himself: Secretary of State Teeven, we could have known this for a year, so find out, because this has to go straight to the Chamber; there is no need for political consultation within the VVD anymore, because this has to go to the Chamber! I appreciate that Secretary of State Dijkhoff is so frank, but I really think he is to blame for not thinking before: I hear the amounts that are being sought here and I see a note here while the Prime Minister maintains that there is no note even the day after the second meeting. Secretary of State Dijkhoff, did you actually report to the Prime Minister that I did see a note?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u22	Now we need to get back to the dates. That note was not quoted on 4 March. On 4 March the amount was called 4.8. That's what I was working on. Secretary of State Teeven mentioned that in a series of numbers that I also referred to. That happened for the same reason as Mr Pechtold says, namely: 4.8 or 4.7 seems a lot. So I asked: isn't that the same thing? The answer was no, because that was just the interest rate and there was something else. In other words, Mr. Bitch's memory was 7.1. That's what he came up with. That was probably good, but not accurate. At that point you don't have the idea either: oh, you knew this all along. Furthermore, Mr Pechtold gives me too much honour when he takes out of my words that I had that reflection at the time. I didn't. That's when you're in a conversation. That's what happens. Afterwards, I did have that reflection and I drew that line. It didn't happen at the time. I didn't feel like it was a tuxedo gun or very juicy information on that Wednesday either. On Monday, when the receipt was found, I asked for further information. Then we came to the memories. At that time, they were already less relevant, because for me the question shifted to: if it is now, how come you haven't found the receipt all this time? That discussion was not very long and Mr Opstelten's conclusion was that it was not sustainable.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u23	On 10 March, the group chairmen held a five-hour debate with the cabinet. There's been an hour's suspension. For that suspension, I asked about the existence of notes. I tried to put it as broad as I could. Mr Dijkhoff can read it all in the Acts. The Prime Minister insisted that there was nothing. After the suspension, he returned with the announcement that they were personal notes, not numbers. We are now reading in an interview that the committee had with him that numbers had been seen by him. With an angry eye, we read. Neither on 4 March, nor on 9 March, nor in the debate on 10 March, did the Secretary of State protect the Prime Minister by saying: I have long heard amounts muttering, I have been quoted and, yes, there is a personal note by Dg Roes about Mr Teeven's memory. Mr Teven's memory is not so bad, because he has also muttered those numbers. It was thought at the very last moment that it would be impossible to keep it, and now we have to support the Slob motion. But if that hadn't happened, if we hadn't found out that those personal notes with those numbers had been there, the cabinet would never have done so. I therefore ask the Secretary of State why, between 4, 9 and 10 March, he did not prevent the Prime Minister from simply standing here telling us that there was nothing left to find out. 'Cause there was.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u24	On March 4th, numbers were mentioned. I asked them if they were new. That was not the case. We may have a different opinion on this afterwards, but at that time I was sitting there with the government representative, the minister. He said those memories were shared with Mr. Van Brummen. An investigation has taken place on this subject. That's what the Chamber was informed about. The conclusion was that it was not enough substantiated memories to bring out that this was the number. That is not entirely illogical, especially if you know that the number was in the end very different from what Mr Teeven was already counting on. As far as I could see, this was within the scope of the information already provided to the Chamber. It didn't seem new to me. On that Monday, I did not see the report. That's another point. The next time someone says to me that something is a personal note, I would say that I want to be able to judge it myself, but at that time I accepted it. The Minister said that, the Director General said that: it's a personal note. I didn't read her. She wasn't read in full either. She was used by the dg to support his memory. When I asked her again and said that the 4.8 million seemed a lot, he used her to explain to me from literal quotes that this had to be 4.8 million plus 2.3 million, so 7.1 million and that this did not result in the same result. I felt the same way at the time. I thought this was one of the parts of a calculation that eventually came out completely different and very similar. I thought that was a coincidence. I didn't feel like I was coming across something at the time, all the more so because I didn't see it and this was just used. Even ifs and buts stand by me. I remember those quoted in the report. That was about all that was quoted to me at the time, I answer Mr Klaver. Furthermore, there was already a discussion that led to a resignation. That's where my memories end, but that was pretty much my experience of that day.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u25	Was Mr Dijkhoff present at that meeting on 4 March in his capacity as campaign manager or MP? Did that matter for his input at the time?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u26	I am very tempted to mention a name, but I am not like a former Minister of Security and Justice who can divide himself into different roles. I'm one person. I was MP as well as second spokesperson for Justice as campaign manager as well as just myself with an opinion. I didn't play cap-on-cap there. I'm not gonna say this was a part. I was there as campaign manager. This was also really about campaign issues. I was there anyway, and then I was asked to think with it. Then I didn't ask the Minister if he wanted my advice as A or as B, because I was in it as one person in the same way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u27	Clear. The Secretary of State is looking back at the fact that it would have been better not to take that step. Can he explain why he is now drawing that conclusion? Does only "I was there so I'm there" or is there any reasoning behind what he would like to say to other MPs about how you deal with these kinds of dilemmas in the future and why?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u28	If I myself, as a ruler, come into such a difficult situation, I will not ask a Member of Parliament to take a look at a press response. That reflection was late. It just... it just... it just... it just... it just... it just... it The day after, on 5 March, there was a RTL debate with a statement that had many effects in the campaign. There was a campaign all weekend. So it all went on in fast-track. At that time I also really felt that my input contributed to a correct treatment of the truth rather than to an incorrect one. I still think that, but apart from that, I think it's wise that if you do talk about... Well, I found that somewhere there is a dividing line between the co-legislative and controlling task. I think a press release, even if you're afraid that a ruler will do something you would advise him not to do... Well, you're not supposed to see it. Once you see it, of course, it's hard to keep your mouth shut. When something is put in front of me and I see it, I, perhaps very pure, am not so composed that I think: it is a huge mistake but I don't say anything and figure it out with your wooden leg. That's not how I'm gonna be. That is why when you see the word 'press release', as a Member of Parliament, you can say that it is up to you as a ruler; I can talk to you about the content and then you have to do it yourself, because you should not do it to me to read texts.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u29	I respect that the Secretary of State says: I do not make a difference between the status of MP and that of campaign manager, because I cannot divide myself. However, I can imagine that in the capacity of campaign manager, you don't like things coming on the news that could harm the party you serve. In the role of MPs, however, you attach great importance to the extra emphasis being placed on the supervisory role of Parliament. How did you deal with that dilemma?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u30	I can imagine that question, but as a campaign manager, I've never been in it like that. I do not believe that covering things up is conducive to the image of my party. During the two years I have run campaigns, I have had many discussions, including with local and regional politicians, who have been active at a much smaller level. In addition, often the advice was to accept that it was not combinable and that it was better to make it clear as soon as possible that error is wrong and to draw conclusions from it than to try to cover something. A winged pronunciation was then "sharp knives make clean wounds" instead of a different view of that. That way I have not felt a dilemma. I found in that role that making mistakes isn't bad, as I still think. That's what I'm now carrying out in my role as a ruler. Together with the minister, I actively promote that culture there. It's okay to make mistakes, but someone has to have the courage to report them. If someone comes to you with a mistake, don't say: I don't want to hear this and what is this? This is not how you create a safe environment for that. We need to be open about that. V and J work for about 100,000 people. Let's just say they're twice as good as me and they only make three mistakes a year. So that's a lot of mistakes every day that we're responsible for. So once a mistake has been made, don't all start thinking: let's keep that away. In my first few weeks I sometimes received an opinion stating that I had no duty to inform the Chamber. That is at your service, but in many cases duty or no duty is that information simply comes when it is relevant. It's not every day rose scent and moonshine, and we don't have to run away from that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u31	The Secretary of State uses two criteria: rolling purity and sharp knives make clean wounds, or "you better put your misery on the table right away." I can't reconcile those two criteria with what happened in this file. I find it difficult to put the criterion of rolling purity in this context. I also find it difficult to reconcile hearing about the amount of 4.8 million with the criterion that the Secretary of State used just now, namely that you should immediately clean up if you hear something difficult or complicated. My personal irritation goes back to the debate in spring 2014, when there was a previous Minister of Security Justice here, who mentioned the amount of 2 million and many spokesmen here felt that something was wrong, but we were called upon to trust. So that's a matter of trust. You felt this wouldn't be the last debate about it. And we've seen it: there's been an investigation, there's been broadcasts from Nieuwsuur and every time there were other amounts. If the campaign manager, now Secretary of State, then heard of a different amount than the 2 million, then all the alarm bells had to go off, precisely because the Chamber, to which he himself belonged, had heard a different amount?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u32	If the situation was still such that the then Minister of Security and Justice left the Chamber under the assumption that it was 2 million, then Mr Segers had a very big point anyway. But at that point, the $2 million had already been corrected, withdrawn, apologized, whatever you want to call it. Then Minister Opstelten had said to the Chamber that he should not have done so clearly about the amount. He said: I don't know that amount at all; I can't tell you the amount, because I don't know; I may have to accept that I can never provide ultimate clarity; it might well be that somewhere else the amount pops up through another party; I have to accept that; I just can't tell you what's going on, because we don't know it here. In itself, those aren't tough announcements when you run a department like that. A year later this is certainly not the case if the receipt is still found by unlocking back-ups. It is certainly not the case when a report later reveals that there was information in another archive box as well. At the time we were there, the fact that the 2 million was wrong was already shared with the Chamber. The fact that Fred Teeven had memories was already known. That's what the letter said. They were weighed by Van Brummen. He said: it's all not sufficiently substantiated, you can't pin an amount on it. We were in a situation where the Ministry could only say: we do not know. And there were a lot of different amounts going around. It was especially frustrating that no one could endorse exactly what it was like. Well, news hours could have done that back then. That's good work, but that Monday got frustrating when it turned out that, if just had been sought in that place earlier and if specialists had previously been hired, we could have unlocked that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u33	A figure of 2 million has been mentioned. A flawed investigation has emerged, after which the Minister and the Secretary of State decided together that the Secretary of State did not have sufficient factual memories. The same Secretary of State turned out to have factual memories in the conversation with the campaign manager. He came up with an amount that, however it is compiled, surprisingly similar to that 4.7 million. Surely, in your responsibility as a Member of Parliament, all the alarm bells must go off? Then it cannot be that there is a press release, the first sentence of which reads: 'The Chamber has not been misinformed'? That's impossible, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u34	I didn't feel any responsibility for that, because I didn't put that first sentence in. It was explained by the fact that at that time the Minister was already aware that the 2 million was wrong. It is said: it is not 2 million, but 4.7 million. Nor was it 2 million; that had already been corrected by the Minister. That that determination should not have been exercised, okay, that was already discussed in the Chamber. The state of affairs was no longer that the Chamber, if it were up to the Minister, was under the assumption that it was 2 million. That's where he gets the exact difference. In addition, Mr Van Brummen had not found in the investigation report, which also went to the Chamber, that there were no memories. If it is found that there are not sufficiently substantiated memories, then there are memories. They're weighted. I haven't done that investigation again in a few hours. At first hearing there was a sum of several amounts, of which one was very similar, but on second thought it was only part of a large calculation. That did not immediately make me think that the conclusion that the memories were not sufficiently substantiated to be able to do something with would be wrong. I do not read that in the report of the Oosting Committee. I read that the investigation should have been done much better. I do see the question as to why the Committee of Inquiry has not just been consulted. These are all legitimate matters that the cabinet supports and embraces.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u35	The then campaign manager spoke to a Secretary of State who had said in public: I know everything, you don't know everything. The Secretary of State had publicly said: the Minister has told the Chamber a good story with the 2 million. The investigation was flawed. We now know it was a flawed investigation and we already knew at that time that it was a flawed investigation because the investigator was not allowed to speak with the Secretary of State. The final conclusion of the flawed study was that there were insufficient factual memories. When such a sum comes up, when he went back to the group as a Member of Parliament, did the campaign manager say: boys, we have heard other amounts; I have heard something incriminating; we have to talk about this, because this affects the relationship of trust between Cabinet and Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u36	No, I didn't go back to the group anyway. What left me was that there were memories. It was already known. They weren't very concrete. Especially when we heard from Nieuwsuur an amount that I immediately thought was not for nothing, that it was well substantiated and that it was different from those memories, I could imagine that the conclusion that was already shared with the Chamber was the whole investigation report shared with the Chamber that on the basis of the memories of that person you could not give any certainty about or more indication of an amount. I found that plausible at the time. I checked every time and asked if this was new. No, it was the answer. Well, then report it in a press response if it went to the Chamber and if those memories were there. That's how I dealt with it. I haven't had the idea, and I still haven't really said that this was now the unveiling of the century. However, it was quite remarkable that at one time the receipt did come when the right people were hired to unlock those backups. Then you think it would have been much better for everyone if the first investigation had been good right away and this had been unlocked. Then there was clarity. Period.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u37	This Secretary of State is a great political talent. I can hardly imagine that he would have considered the information he received on 4 March as a risk, including for the campaign. He was there as campaign manager, too. He has indicated that he did not go back to the group, but I simply cannot imagine that he did not speak with people from his campaign team in that week or with the VVD summit about what changed on 4 March and that this might be a risk to the group. Can the Secretary of State comment on the contacts he had within the VVD between 4 March and 9 March?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u38	Anyone who saw the news announcement could have guessed that. It doesn't take a lot of political talent. I'm not gonna charge myself as credits for that at the time. Furthermore, of course, it has been discussed all the time, about the Nieuwsuur broadcast and about another receipt. This was also discussed in the campaign team. I also had frequent contact with the party leader. Now we have not discussed the details of the amounts, but it has been discussed that this amount could best be agreed. The first reaction was that it was denied, but I didn't think it was wise at all. That, of course, has been discussed. It was obviously one of the many risks we had in that campaign.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u39	Now it is a coincidence that the leader of the party with whom the Secretary of State spoke at the time is also the prime minister. I am curious to see how many times there has been contact with the party leader during that week and what exactly has changed. Has there been an exchange, for example, that Mr Teeven had very clear reminders of an amount, which the Secretary of State himself indicated in the conversation that it was very similar to the amount that Nieuwsuur indicated? Did that switch with the Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u40	No, the amounts didn't, because I didn't think that was a clear reminder at the time. It was a series of amounts, which began with two comma hopperepup. On that Monday the quotes came from the conversation report that was characterized as "personal." In the days in between, of course, I had daily contact anyway. It wasn't every hour, as it became later, but often. Then you talk about all these things. The fact that there were amounts and memories at that time was not new to me. That wasn't the point either. I didn't think those memories were so sharp after asking through, to be honest. At first it seemed 4.8 but when you asked through, you were told that this had to be added and that and then you get to 7.1. I didn't think they were that sharp.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u41	Still, that doesn't reassure me. I just can't imagine the campaign leader of the largest party in the Netherlands that he wouldn't share it with the party leader, that he doesn't share that there is a risk, that he still feels that the amounts presented by Nieuwsuur are very similar and that there is a great chance that this will break out. The Secretary of State is getting over it a little easy, I think, because there's been a lot of contact. Perhaps he could make an attempt and indicate when there were contacts with the Prime Minister during that week and when this matter was discussed in particular. That may be written, but he may also read it to you immediately. That is very important to me, because it is stated throughout the reply that the Prime Minister knew nothing. The Prime Minister himself often separates the party leader from the Prime Minister, and I am very curious to know what information he has been given as party leader.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u42	Yes, for the campaign leader and the party leader who does all the debates and with whom you have a campaign day on Saturday, that really means several times a day contact. It's gonna be really hard to distill that exactly. I can tell you what's changed about this case, but you don't change all the details right away. You give the headlines and then there are a lot of things to do. Now it seems as if all these days you were doing nothing but doing this, but that was not the case. It was at the heat of the campaign and then there are a lot of changes. I did, however, reconnect how things were and whatever press release was eventually modified. I also referred back to the memories of Mr Teeven who had already been shared in the investigation and said that this was not new either. At that time, I did not see that amount as the point of this matter. Frankly, that amount is quite different when you read it exactly in the report that is now public. I had more of the idea of how the Minister had informed the Chamber about this and how it should be if anything else was found. After all, a new search was announced.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u43	I have a little less understanding and compassion for it all. What happened on that infamous fourth, is that the Chamber and the whole of the Netherlands have just been tricked. Let's call the beast by the name, please. There were a number of people, including not only this Secretary of State but also Mr Van der Steur, who is now getting away easily because he does not have to answer any questions yet. But everything I say also applies to Mr Van der Steur. There were two rulers, then MPs, who helped to create a press release with which the Netherlands was fooled, because they knew, they knew that the amount of 4.8 million existed! Mr Teeven mentioned that amount. With that press release, you have been involved in cheating on the Netherlands by not reporting it. As Members of Parliament, you have forsaken your duty by not going straight to the Chamber and saying, "Guys, I just heard that 4.8 from the Secretary of State. Now a debate." That should have happened, and you didn't. That is why you are unreliable, just like Mr Van der Steur, and have helped to deceive the Chamber and the whole of the Netherlands. Those are the facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u44	Mr Teeven mentioned one of the numbers in a whole series. If I had ripped out that $4.8 million and rushed to the Chamber to say, "He said 4.8," I would have cheated the place. If I hadn't told you the truth, I'd have blown the place up. What I verified was whether it was new information. Was the fact that those memories existed information that was never weighed? I found that the fact that there were memories was shared with the Chamber and that the memories were weighed by a committee of inquiry. We can all find all kinds of things now, but at that time there was just a research report by Mr Van Brummen which was also shared with the Chamber. It concluded that the amount could not be traced. Eventually, we don't know because of those memories. We know the research work of Nieuwsuur was unfortunately necessary for that because of a new search, because it was found on the department itself. It didn't come out at a sum of 2,3 plus 4.8 interest rates is 7.1, but at 4.7. That's how we know it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u45	No, Madam President. That's just not true. The Chamber didn't know a single number. The figures mentioned that evening by then Secretary of State Teeven, 2 million, 2.2 million and 4.8 million, did not know the Chamber. Minister Opstelten knew it, because that was how we read this week's report from the Director-General Rous. He'd already seen it, and that man was right to resign. On that evening, Secretary of State Teeven himself told Mr Roes what he said to you. He also mentioned the number of 4.8. You should not be proud that you supposedly saved them from a mistake by saying that the amount might not be right. You should have put that amount in! You should have said: that amount can certainly be right, because I have just heard from the Secretary of State. You should have gone to the House of Representatives and said: 'Ladies and gentlemen, I have just heard something. I'm one of you, because I'm a Member of Parliament at first; even more important than campaign manager. We've been fooled. We've been screwed." You didn't do that, and the Minister of Justice didn't do that. I will tell you that you have cheated and my group has already lost faith in you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u46	I then verified with the data that came to me whether they were part of the correspondence with the Chamber and whether they were weighted in the investigation. That, I think, is where my responsibility as a Member of Parliament ends. Maybe that's why you shouldn't have that conversation there at the time. It is then the responsibility of the govern ment in its contacts with the Chamber to shape the information provision. This was designed by an investigation by Mr Van Brummen, which was also made available to the Chamber and in which Mr Teeven's memories were involved, weighed and qualified. That's how I looked at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u47	We also discussed the Prime Minister's involvement earlier. Did he ask you to go there in any way or did he know about it on the fourth of March?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u48	No, I was already there because of an appointment with Mr Opstelten about the campaign. Mr Opstelten then asked me to stay there to talk about this and one thing changed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u49	So the Prime Minister wasn't aware that you were going to?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u50	No, I'm not going to submit my agenda to the Prime Minister when I have an appointment to catch up with a ruler.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u51	I don't know how to weigh that. My point is, did the Prime Minister know that you were going to be involved in a problem that was at the ministry that day? That's not such a crazy question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u52	When I went there, I didn't even know I was gonna get involved in this. I was still in the blissful assumption at the time that I would have a catch-up with the rulers about the ongoing campaign. Afterwards came from one thing to another and I didn't have another conversation with the Prime Minister. That's just how it went.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u53	So there has not been a single moment when the Prime Minister could have said: I have a minister who has been nominated by me for appointment, who can do that sort of thing; please, do you not burn on it as a Member of Parliament? I think that is the point. So there has been no role of the Prime Minister that could have made that moment possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u54	No, not that... no.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u55	Okay. Then I have one more question. A week later, you're in the saddle. Did you not have the idea when you were called or something: is this wise because my role in settling the deal on which my predecessor has just resigned is very big?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u56	No. I didn't feel and found my role that big at the time. I've had some serious conversations there. I had a different opinion on how to deal with things at times. So I didn't really think it was crazy about... well, I thought it was weird that I was asked, but that's a different story. I didn't think this was an obstacle to acting there. The only thing is that in the weeks after the resignation of Mr Opstelden and Mr Teeven I did, of course, encounter qualifications in all kinds of reconstructions about my performance there, which was not exactly qualified as 'the firm constructive criticism'. That's why I thought to myself, "Is it gonna work?" But I thought it might be a good thing if you wanted to do something about the "eggy attitude," as Mr Van der Staaij said.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u57	Finally. What are you looking at now, now that you see where it has led, namely a situation that I think you could never have wanted, but could have seen somewhat coming? How do you see it that you said yes afterwards?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u58	Now we're a lot further and I'm just trying my best to work hard every day and I don't think this is necessarily a reason why I couldn't function anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u59	On March 4th, the Chamber spent a year trying to find out exactly what happened. On 4 March, Mr Dijkhoff will be in that ministry, with seven people. Secretary of State Teeven mumbles an amount that is very close to the truth. Dg Roes has a note on him that says so. The Minister, also present, has the same note in his file, as the Oosting Committee concludes. So three of the seven present at that table know that the sum of 2 million is in any case nonsense and that the amount of 4.8 million circulates. At that time, however, we are choosing to change the first line of the press release: we are not going to talk about the 4.7 million, because that is confusing. They are actively involved in this. The second line of the press release is as follows: "Officials within the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Department have no knowledge of what would actually have been transferred in the settlement." No, of course, not "actually." Well, that's gonna be the fugitive mound. But that 4.8 is known to the Minister, known to the Secretary of State, known to the Director-General, mumbled and quoted, must remain hidden from the rest of the Netherlands, and certainly from the Chamber, which has been looking for a year. Why not also delete or modify this second line?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u60	The report was only discussed on Monday, 9 March, and not on that Wednesday itself. And it's gonna be a bit of a repeat, but if I had asked, "What, without you knowing exactly, has been transferred?', the answer would not have been "4.8." The answer would have been "7.1." So it wasn't like that at the time that it was thought: hey, the number that we've been trying to keep under the hat for a long time has been revealed by Nieuwsuur. No, the number from the memories turned out to be far off, which was revealed by Nieuwsuur. It wasn't like people thought this was wired. So that's a long way from that, even when you're asking. Again, the first time I heard that element, I thought: hey, that's weird. That's why I asked: is it 4.8? "No, according to those calculations and memories, it's 7.1." Well, that doesn't seem right. So I think it is not surprising that this was not said with great certainty, if there was no justification for it. And as far as that sentence goes, I didn't put it in there. It was still there because that phrase had been used more often and it was so at that time: they had searched but couldn't find what had been transferred. The memories that were in that room at the time turned out to be wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u61	As a Member of Parliament, you are jointly responsible for drafting a press release. You're talking about what's in it and what's not in it. So you're in agreement with the content. As Oosting concludes, this news section has done thorough journalistic work for a year. You're just saying in your press release to that news section that she's wrong. It's wrong! That's what you say first. Then, in the second sentence, pull up a fog curtain on what would be known. Both on the fourth and the ninth and the tenth, when the Prime Minister stood here, there has been a chronic lack of attempts to facilitate the Chamber in the truth finding at the entire summit of the VVD. You should've called in 7.1! You should have reported 2.3 and 4.8! Then at least we had a lead to go on. The next day, when I got the signal that there was a discussion report, we could have, through the interview report and personal notes, pulled the whole sweater apart, but if it hadn't, your State Secretariat would have started with something we never knew. You would never have taken the initiative to tell us what you were going through there at the beginning of March. I blame you for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u62	The history was precisely that too many amounts were mentioned that were wrong. The Minister will also go into this in detail. The Minister should have withdrawn an amount. He had reported to the Chamber the assumption that it was $2 million. His conclusion was: "I mentioned amounts, but I should not have done so. 'Cause I can't fix them. I can't make any money. I've been looking, and I've had Van Brummen do some research. We have spoken to Mr Teeven and he has shared his memories. The conclusion is that I can't call you a valid amount because I don't know what's right." The idea was right then that there were already far too many amounts that were not certain, and that you did not have to come up with them again. I checked again to see if there were any new things on the table. Were these things already involved in investigations and had they already been to the Chamber? That was all the case. I didn't find out where the Chamber was misinformed. I am now being rubbed that when you criticize something, you are also responsible for the things that are not being adapted. Everyone has to judge that for themselves. That is also a reason why I say that you better not be involved at all, because you can fix a part and the rest, which you have not been able to fix, is then suddenly your responsibility. I didn't agree. It's not my style either. Anyway, if that's rubbed on me, then so be it. Again, I didn't get the idea that Newsage was being broken. I have just the things I thought: yes, but this is... Why deny an amount if you don't even know what the amount is? Why shouldn't you mention the memories explicitly, which Nieuwsuur also hinted at? Then confirm that those memories are there! That's what happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u63	One question, Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u64	Here's what I'm gonna do. First of all, I appreciate the open and reflective attitude of the Secretary of State. I hope that this will be an example for the Prime Minister in his reply. The point was that Newsuur had provided all kinds of new information, including an account number. Then you can't say there's no new information? Or did the Ministry say that the account number was known anyway and that it went after it, but it didn't find out? News hour had delivered new information on the fourth to apply hearing and hearing again. With that information, the data was eventually found a week later. How could the ministry then have claimed that there was no new information, and how could Member Dijkhoff then have believed that there was no new information? I thought that was the whole crux of the Nieuwsuuritem. There was new intel!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u65	There was plenty of new information from Nieuwsuur, but also only from Nieuwsuur. That is precisely what I think the discussion was about. The announcements made at the table about what was already known and Fred Teeven's memories were therefore not new, but already involved in research and information. News hours had a lot of new information, of course. I didn't deny that at any time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u66	I actually want to give the Secretary of State an opportunity to finish his story, Mr Klaver. Then whoever needs to interrupt again gets the opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u67	However, I would like to ask you briefly on this point. The Secretary of State himself just said that no new information had become available which the Ministry did not yet know or with which it had not yet started to work. That's what it's about. There was new information, which was also new to the Ministry, with which the Ministry had not yet started work. Then you can't come up with denials and say that Newsage is wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u68	I totally agree with that. That was the spirit of my advice. If you don't know yourself, if you don't have any information and that information doesn't come from the Ministry, so if you know less than Nieuwsuur, how can you deny that what they're saying is true? So that denial is gone.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u69	How much time do you think you need?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u70	We've been a long way along along.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u71	All right, Mr Segers will have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u72	The Secretary of State says not all my advice has been taken and the rest will be rubbed at you. Did he also advise on the first line of the press release?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u73	About the first rule? No, we haven't handled the message in any sense. I have asked general questions about the certainty: 'not misinformed', is that correct? Then came the story: yes, there was a moment when the Minister had told the Chamber that it was 2 million, but that has been corrected. Newsday says the minister called out 2, but it's 4.7. The latter is certainly true and he also called for two, but the Minister at the time said to the Chamber: sorry, I have to withdraw those two, I should not have; I do not know what the amount is. At that moment, the information was to the Chamber: I don't know. That was still correct; that was not incorrect. Furthermore, we have not dealt with the message in any sense. I haven't been writing. I have, however, challenged the certainty on a few points. There have been two changes. News hours said Mr. Bitch had memories. We said at that time: if that has already been changed with the Chamber, just put it in.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u74	I understand the Secretary of State took care of that first sentence at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u75	No, I didn't have that conversation. I've been asking questions. Again, it was not a question of asking a question, getting an answer and then saying "okay." I challenge the certainty, the response, and then the Minister decides what he leaves behind. That didn't happen to make sense. If I'd fed the pen... but that didn't happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u76	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u77	In the meantime, we have changed a lot. I think all the questions have been answered by now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u78	Mr. Chairman. It will be clear that my role in the affair around Cees H. as spokesperson on the subject was, of course, different from that of Mr Dijkhoff, Mr Kamerlid and during that period campaign leader. I was present at the second meeting on Monday 9 March. At some point the Director-General announced that he was going to get what he called "the personal notes" from the conversation with Mr. Bitch. I rose up and said: it does not suit me as a spokesperson and MP to take note of that information, because that information is not known to the Chamber. I did that because at that moment I drew my line in the role I had there. I agree with what Mr Dijkhoff said. I should have drawn that line earlier, at least on 4 March and perhaps before, when I occasionally advised the Minister on issues relating to this story.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u79	I come forward so quickly, because the Minister starts with: I have done it very purely, the dg gives me something and I, the pure MP, have prevented it from being used. That's just not how we're gonna do it. Something's happened that can't be done. The minister started saying on Friday: we could do what we did, it was normal and otherwise I have no memories of 4 March. I want to know if the Minister will come back to that and sincerely regret what he did on 4 March and what he told the Netherlands last week. The first point was that he didn't have a reminder of March 4th, and the second point was that it was good, what he did there. Let's start with that. Is the Minister prepared to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u80	Let me start with the final point. I think I've been very clear. I said that I drew the line on 9 March when Mr Roes was going to get the report. I then said that I should have drawn that line on 4 March, but I did not. That is the answer to Mr Buma's question. I blame myself for not asking myself this urgent question earlier: did I still have enough time to notice the difference between the co-legislative role and the controlling role in the contacts with the Minister on this particular issue? Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Segers and Mr Roemer, among others, have asked this question. The other point of the question was about the memories. I said that in my view there is nothing wrong with contacts between ministers and MPs. I have heard this from Mr Buma in the debate. As Minister, I would also like to say that I very much appreciate these contacts. I'm very open to that and I think those contacts should be there. However, I have something new on two points. I found my conversational notes last Sunday. I should call them scribbles from the conversations of March 4th and March 9th. I have also had to conclude from this that the amounts were discussed at that time, as is also stated in the reply. I am convinced that I should have asked the question earlier, which I did not ask until 9 March and which I took action on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u81	That's it now? You should have asked yourself that question sooner? Last week you spoke to the whole of the Netherlands and said that what you were doing there was completely normal and not cross a line. That's when I cut off. You pretended that's normal for all of us, but it's not. It's not normal to go to a department as a member of parliament to do a press release. You have to say that! You must regret that, too. You must also regret what you said to the whole of the Netherlands last week. Before that there was apparently a long period of time, which you now feel is far too much in the Minister's lap. I would like to take this opportunity to inform you that you think that this was a very bad practice for Members of Parliament. Your party will have to deal with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u82	If you ask me if I'm sorry, I'll tell you very simply. Given the way the debate has gone on here, you can only see that there has been a discussion about my role as a Member of Parliament in relation to this dossier. I deeply regret that this discussion is taking place here, because I should have come to that conclusion earlier and at another time. That was probably supposed to be on March 4th when that press release came on the table. I didn't come for the press release, by the way. The same applies to me as to Mr Dijkhoff: I was asked by the Minister to come and help with the crisis that had arisen. The press release was brought in and the Minister asked me, as did Mr Dijkhoff, if I wanted to watch. I should have thought about that at the time and probably said no, but I didn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u83	We are now, of course, sweeping an incredible series of failures and misses aside. You shouldn't have done that. However, that is only the first point. The second point is that you say that Minister Opstelten had asked you. Didn't the then political leader, the Prime Minister, have any contact with you that day about what happened there when you were sitting there?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u84	No, I didn't have any contact with the Prime Minister as a spokesperson.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u85	Okay, you can. But then I really wonder who eventually led the VVD campaign. There was panic and chaos in that department on 4 March, but the Prime Minister didn't come forward. That's another note.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u86	The most positive news is that the Minister's memory is back. Last Friday, he didn't remember anything. I'm glad it's back now. For a moment, it seemed as if the ministers had seen some kind of ambiguity disorder breaking out of that ministry. On Sunday, however, the minister also appears to have found some scribbles of his own. In the meantime, we have had the Oosting report and one and a half years of whining. But now there are scribbles. The question now would be, of course, whether we should get those scribbles. I'm starting to think it's becoming a show. Now I have to ask again about the scribbles. The Minister is the first time in the Ministry on 4 March, in his capacity as MP. He doesn't really have anything to do there. Then why did he come there to defend the Minister, as he himself says? He's not for that at all! As a Member of Parliament, it doesn't matter whether it's opposition or coalition, he's there to make sure the Chamber is informed. But on March 4th and 9th, he will be there. My question is this. We had the whole picture of a ministry where the government was wrong and the politicians were the victims. So slowly, after Oosting, we have a completely different picture. But what does this minister do? He says first: yes, when that dg came with those notes, I must have left quickly. Point again at the officials! No! That whole political summit was wrong, the previous one and the present one! I'd like a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u87	I do not share the conclusion on the current one with Mr Pechtold. I note that the previous political summit has resigned on this issue, particularly with regard to the provision of information to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u88	Do you know what the Prime Minister has to say about this so far? That it was purely because it was said that the receipt would not be found. So, what's next? There is much more why it should have been resigned, namely that on 4 March and 9 March Members of Parliament are sitting at Teeven, who mumbles amounts, at dg Roes, who has it in his iPad or on a paper, and at Minister Opstelten, who already has it in his file in preparation for debates. You hear those amounts, you can read them, they're mumbled and you don't do anything with them. You do not then say in the debate on resignation, in which we have to pull, drag and push information: boys, come on, I have heard for a long time 2,3, 4.8 and 7.1, I have heard all these amounts, there is indeed a discussion report. Why didn't you do something?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u89	For the same reason as Mr Dijkhoff has just put forward. The fact that there were memories of Mr. Teeven was well known. On March 4th, Mr. Teeven's memories were nowhere near what would be announced at Nieuwsuur that night. The amount of Nieuwsuur seemed to me to be the right amount. I immediately assumed that that amount was right. Why? Because Mr Doedens and Mr Kuipers had said that at a much earlier stage. Mr Kuijpers said that it was 6 or 7 million and that it was 7.5 tonnes. That is what I believe Mr Pechtold said in the first term. Mr Doedens referred to about 5 million. I assumed the amount of Nieuwsuur was right. That is why, like Mr Dijkhoff, I did not think it wise that this denial of that amount of Newsuur should be included in that press release, and I said that when I was asked that question. I told you, I shouldn't have stayed here. I thought it was extremely unwise, because I assumed that that amount would be right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u90	The longer this debate lasts, the greater the mockery it actually becomes: two MPs who have to take corrective action in the ministry, who then come back to the Chamber and keep their mouths shut. Why didn't MP Van der Steur say straight away to MP Dijkhoff: do you do it or do I do it, this information should go to the Chamber, because we as a people's representative have to take action on this with our corrective role?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u91	I didn't get that information until Monday. We have reported this in the answers to the parliamentary questions. Then the full sums became known. That sum up to 7.1 turned out to be totally inconsistent with what was actually transferred in accordance with the receipt and the announcement of Nieuwsuur. So there was no message for me about that either: well, something very special is happening here. The amount that Secretary of State Teeven mentioned to me on Monday 9 March, which increased to 7.1, was not at all close to that 4.7. Not even in the neighborhood. The memory of Mr Teeven was evidently that what was in that discussion report. That was handed over to Mr Van Brummen. Mr Van Brummen had already concluded that there was too little justification for making substantiated statements on what had actually been transferred. I didn't know any more than that at the time. That's always been the case. On that Monday, the amount of the 7.1 will finally be on the table. That's when I found out that that wasn't close to the 4.7 that Nieuwsuur was talking about. The relevance of this has therefore completely escaped me. In addition, I was told that this was a personal note from an official I was not allowed to know. That's why I left, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u92	I advise the Minister to listen to this one more time at a quiet moment. I think he'll think, "Oh, what did I say?" On any subject that had been in a newspaper, MP Van der Steur was there as the chickens to report oral questions and to know the seam of the stocking everywhere, when it came to him. Here crucial information is shared at the Ministry on a topic that we've been working on for almost two years and then two MPs keep their mouths shut because it's about VVDs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u93	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u94	That's what's going on. This place looks like a game of curling, wiping its own street clean. We really shouldn't want that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u95	No, I don't recognize myself in that image of Mr Roemer. I do recognize myself in many other things that Mr Roemer says. I blame myself, too. I just turned that in. But if it is established that it is 4.7, as Nieuwsuur rightly pointed out on 4 March, when it is then established on that Monday that it is indeed 4.7 and that Mr Teeven had a reminder of 7.1 and I think in that reminder that he didn't know exactly because he was not involved in the settlement... The debate in 2014 went on that was Mr Segers' question, if I am right about the question: Minister, what was actually transferred? That's when the minister started mathing. Then he came up at 1.25. That was the debate: what was actually transferred? One thing was certain of Mr Teeven's 7.1 on Monday 9 March: it was not the amount actually paid. That was the 4.7. So it wasn't a relevant amount for me at the time and it was the first time I heard it. When I heard of it, I did say: why was it not reported to the Chamber? Just as Mr Oosting concludes, I found and still believe that you could have reported that memory of former Officer Bitches to the Chamber, but I did not hear that until 9 March. I made that comment at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u96	You did wonder, why wasn't it reported to the Chamber? You don't just do that one moment on March 9th. You realize that right away when you're involved. This did not happen then, not both in the case of Mr Van der Steur and in the case of Mr Dijkhoff. This is really sweeping your ass and trying to keep partymates out of the wind. This is exactly what I was referring to in my first term. I had hoped that the cabinet would make every effort to restore confidence in the cabinet and the rule of law. So far I haven't seen a shred of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u97	I cannot share Mr Roemer's conclusion. When I look back and read the report of the Oosting Committee... By the way, it was already announced 10 March. I myself immediately did everything I could to facilitate that investigation in good consultation with the Chamber. The MPs know that, too. I thought that was an important point. That's one of the first things I've picked up, and understandably. In the meantime, it was already established that the discussion report would become part of the report of the Oosting Committee. The Prime Minister promised it the next day. What was I supposed to do? In Mr Roemer's view, should I have launched another independent action in a day and a half? Should I have done something here in the Chamber between 9 March, when the Minister and the Secretary of State turned down in the evening, and the next day when there was a debate? I don't see it in front of me, but if things had turned out differently, I might have. One thing was certain: I found and felt with the Oosting Committee that Mr Teeven's memory could have been communicated to the Chamber. You could have said: the Secretary of State remembers this; that is something else, by the way, and that is it. I think I should have. I would do the same myself, as a minister, by the way. It has been my policy since day one. I hope you have noticed that information from the department is shared much more quickly and quickly than possibly was the experience of the Chamber in the past.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u98	What the Minister now points out, namely that it should have been shared earlier, is precisely the inconvenience with the various roles that the Member of Parliament and the current Minister had at the time. That inconvenience is in fact being there, with the government, when deciding whether or not to share information with the Chamber, when he was a Member of Parliament and was standing here with me in a previous life and having to check that same government in a file that has been dragging for a long time, in which various amounts have been mentioned. That goes back to 2002, when the first parliamentary questions were asked. Then it is extremely uncomfortable that information has not been shared that the Member of Parliament at the time encountered in the bosom of the government and that he, as a Member of Parliament, felt should have been shared with the Chamber? Isn't that exactly the inconvenience of roles that shouldn't have been switched?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u99	But I did not hear that information until Monday 9 March, the night on which the Minister and the Secretary of State resigned from this case for reasons of informing the Chamber. My comment was also: why was that not shared with the Chamber? I heard that then. I felt the inconvenience too late at the time. Then the evidence would come to the table of those amounts. That was contained in personal notes, as they were called back then, which I heard were not publicly available. I knew that from the letter to the Minister's Chamber on Van Brummen's report. Then I thought: I can't take notice of that, because that's not in my role.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u100	There was a long run-up with various broadcasts of Newsuur, and with a flawed investigation in which the researcher was not allowed to speak with the then Secretary of State, leaving uncertainty. Then there will be new information. What did then MP Van der Steur do with that information towards the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u101	The information from Monday, March 9th? It consisted of one new thing: the 2.3 million and the 4.8 million, mentioned by Mr Teeven in April 2014 in the discussion with the Director-General. That information I said at the time: why wasn't it shared with the Chamber? Then the answer was: that is contained in personal notes, which were shared with Mr Van Brummen, and that is why that information is involved in the investigation. On the basis of that information, Mr Van Brummen concluded that there were no substantiated statements on what had actually been transferred. That's it. I thought and felt that it could and should have been different. I'd do it differently myself as a minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u102	Several spokesmen have said that the purpose seemed to be damage control rather than the raising of the truth and sharing it with the Chamber. Then may I ask one last question? Following the presentation of the Oosting report, the Minister said that it is perfectly normal to maintain such contacts and that it is perfectly normal for that traffic to go back and forth. Is he gonna come back to those words now? Is he coming back in his hallway to the ministry and his role in that? Will he come back to what he said after the presentation of the Oosting report?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u103	I was asked at that time whether it is normal for there to be contacts between Minister and Members of Parliament. On that question I said: that is perfectly normal, that happens every day and regularly, with people from the coalition parties, but also with people from the coalition parties. That is what I explicitly stated about the budget with many members of the opposition parties. The MPs concerned know that, too. That's part of the normal process. At the request of Mr Roemer, but also Mr Segers and Mr Van der Staaij, I reflect on whether I should not have abandoned the content of these contacts earlier. The answer to that is yes. I did it on 9 March and I should have done it, as the Secretary of State said about his role as MP, on 4 March. Maybe I should have asked that question before. However, something new has only become known to me on Monday 9 March. I asked why this was not shared with the Chamber. I left when the interview report came on the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u104	I would like to dwell on 4 March, given the mail that Nieuwsuur sent. The Ministry didn't know anything. That especially had no memories, there were no notes, there was actually nothing. On that day, Nieuwsuur sent an e-mail stating the amount to the decimal place, as well as the account number, the character of the Public Prosecutor's Office, the name and the parquet number. In such a situation, I expect a Member of Parliament to hear this in the ministry, regardless of whether he is from the coalition or the opposition, the following. He should not be busy with a press release and the question of how to prevent the Minister from saying wrong things. No, you only have one question for the Minister: this needs to be sorted out to the bottom. Before you react, all you have to do is say: this is what you have to do. Why didn't Mr Van der Steur do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u105	As the Minister himself said, that's what I'm going to do. That's what happened. He's made a new move. On the weekends, that battle led to the receipt of 4.7 million being found. We noted on 9 March that this could have been done much earlier. This, together with the provision of information to the Chamber, prompted the Minister and the Secretary of State to resign. That's what happened. That's what I thought was the right response. The only thing that turned out was that the information that Nieuwsuur provided had not been necessary to find the receipt. They could have done that a year earlier if they had the right people for ICT. That's where the cause of the mistake was.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u106	That was supposed to be the way to react, wasn't it? Shouldn't that have been the advice of the MPs of the VVD sitting there? I thought the only correct response was to find out what's going on. We know these numbers, we know these data; we figure out what's going on?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u107	That is exactly what the Minister has done. He didn't need the MPs for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u108	During the debate on Volkert van der Graaf, this minister of the Chamber received the yellow card. The conclusion was that he put the Chamber on the wrong track. In addition, he was ordered to clean up debris at the Ministry of Security and Justice; he had to pull the broom through. Now it appears that the Minister is involved in this extremely shady affair. Is the Minister still able to manage cultural change in a credible way in his ministry, where it is badly needed?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u109	The answer to Mr Bontes' question is: yes, and I am working very hard on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u110	How can the Minister do that in a credible way? You have an exemplary role, don't you? You have to show your officials what it is all about: transparency, openness, separation of powers and you name it. Isn't it extremely difficult for this minister to be credible? All these officials will think, "Dear Van der Steur, you also have mountains of butter on your head."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u111	I don't recognize myself in that qualification. I said what I said about my role as a Member of Parliament. That's different from my role as minister. Mr Bontes can expect me to show the process of change that we have started and that was necessary after the Hoekstra Committee and after the events around Volkert van der G., to which Mr Bontes rightly refers. I have already announced in the past that I expected the Oosting Committee to provide further assistance for this. I'm not gonna use that process alone; I'm gonna perfect it, too. We're gonna make that a success. In February we already come to the Chamber with a letter to show what we are going to do, because it is necessary and because the Chamber can expect us to do so. I'd love to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u112	I will continue to puzzle with the moment when the minister, when MP, was remorseful of conscience, faced the piece of the dg and left. The strange thing is: I read the answers to the questions and I see that his Secretary of State, when MP, made a completely different assessment. I wonder what that means for the Minister's moral consideration. The Minister writes in his reply: I understand from Mr Dijkhoff that, after my departure, Mr Roes made use of his minutes to answer some of Mr Dijkhoff's questions, partly through paraphrases and quotes. In short, you walk away nicely, with clean hands, and Mr Dijkhoff continues.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u113	I ran away because I assumed that I was going to have the debate on this subject and felt that as a spokesman I should not have information that would not be made publicly available to the Chamber. Why was that? Because I heard that Mr. Roes, just before he ran away, said: I am going to get my personal notes; they are in a safe and I am going to read them to you in response to the questions that have been asked. They had asked what the hell was going on with those amounts from Mr Bitch. That's when the discussion came. Then I said: boys, then I'm gone, because I can't and won't take notice of it. I am now saying that I should have drawn that conclusion earlier, namely on 4 March, as Mr Dijkhoff also said.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u114	Then how does this minister judge that his current Secretary of State didn't say "I don't want to know about this" at the time, but just let him read out what was in it? He may not have been the first, but he was the second spokesperson for justice of the VVD group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u115	I can't answer that. I felt I should take that step as a spokesperson, but I shouldn't have taken that step at all, because I shouldn't have been there at all. As early as 4 March, when the draft press release was published, I should have said: this is really a job for the Minister himself. I should have left then, as Mr Dijkhoff said.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u116	This has been a bizarre scene with retroactive effect, hasn't it? I'll take it in mind. The Director-General's coming up with a piece. One MP says, "I'm leaving. I can't do this anymore." The other one says, "Come on, I'll let it read to me." That's the difference, the moral moment when you opened the debate with it, you draw the moral line and you don't want to know about it and the other just joins in. I would actually like to hear from the Secretary of State himself how he looks back on that if he can, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u117	I'll look at the minister first.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u118	The Secretary of State has just explained this, because those questions have also come. I thought I should do it at the time, but I do recognize that I should have done it sooner. That is also the reflection that Mr Roemer, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Buma and Mr Segers have asked of me. I think I should have done it differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u119	I think this is proof that it is simply wrong, despite everything the Minister says. What happened wasn't right. What happened on March 4th was no good. The Prime Minister didn't know about it. He didn't have any contact with anyone. On March 9th they will come again. I don't know if the Prime Minister was in touch at the time. They see everything. They don't know anything. And then on March 9th, the personal note comes and one MP says, "I don't want to see it; I'm going home with clean hands," and the other just sits there. Together they're sitting here... I'm still getting some information from Mr. Pechtold...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u120	No, I'll check with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u121	Together they sit here now and say that it wasn't that convenient after all. It's more than that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u122	The Minister replied because it was his answers to those 250 questions that he later heard from Dijkhoff that dg Roes came up with information. Now he says that the moment Dg Roes went to take it out of his safe, he thought: ho, I don't need to hear that. That's a lot different. Then I am very surprised that, while he himself, as a Member of Parliament, suddenly lets himself down, as he himself admits, gets some kind of conscience, he leaves the other Member of Parliament sitting.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u123	That's how it happened. I made that choice. I told you I should've done that before. That's what Secretary of State Dijkhoff and I share. At the time when Mr Roes announced 'I'm going now', there was a lot of discussion about what exactly was or was not said in Mr Teeven's memory. That's how I heard those amounts that day. Then I said: if a document comes out here that is not shared with the Chamber and cannot be shared either, because it is personal notes, as was said then, I want to leave. That was my trade-off. But I'm telling you, I shouldn't have been in that balance. The same applies to Mr Dijkhoff. We should have left on 4 March when the draft press release was brought in, which we did not come for. After all, Mr Dijkhoff came as campaign manager for a completely different appointment and I was asked to come because there was a problem with news from Nieuwsuur.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u124	The story's just rattling. You're invited to the fourth. It'll be just the two of you. You'll be back on the ninth. Not until a civil servant gets something out of a safe, one of them goes away. But he doesn't say to the other: we really shouldn't have this, because we shouldn't have been here the last time. Minister Van der Steur hasn't lost the receipt, he's lost his way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u125	I understand very well that Mr Pechtold is critical of the choices that have been made. That is why I think we should simply put it on the table in the Chamber. I understand Mr Pechtold's criticism very well, but I do not recognize myself in the last paraphrase of the status I am now in.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u126	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u127	I'm going back to the Easting Commission. I note that we have received the report from the Oosting Committee. As a client, I would also like to thank the Oosting Committee for its work and for the report with annexes, which is a very solid basis for a good debate on what needs to be done in response to the findings made by the committee. After the opening of this debate to date, it will not be surprising that the committee has drawn very firm conclusions, not only on the deal itself, but also on the way in which the Chamber was informed about it. Much has gone wrong in the preparation and settlement of the settlement agreement and in the provision of information to the Court. I have already said in the press conference that I deeply regret this and that my predecessor in office has taken his responsibility in offering his resignation. It is then up to me as a minister to ensure that the settlements that have been mentioned here can no longer be prevented. Of course, I must also ensure that the Chamber is informed in good time, fully and adequately. That is also the starting point of my presidency. There have rightly been strong words about the way in which I have operated as a Member of Parliament. I said what I said about that. Now I'm going to join the Ministry's class. The political-administrative sensitivity in the Ministry is an important competence, so that sensitive information arrives in time where it should be. That is also one of the conclusions of the Oosting Committee. That was also a conclusion in connection with the debate on Volkert van der G's photo. In this context, as proposed by the Oosting Committee, the incident strategy within my ministry will be updated. This is in line with the recommendation that, in similar situations, an external investigation should be chosen by an independent researcher, as a number of members of the Chamber have already said. It goes without saying that Mr Oosting, looking back with his committee, finds that the mandate should not have been given to Mr Van Brummen, but that an independent researcher should have been commissioned by then. I fully endorse that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u128	I'm interrupting before the ball goes back to the officials. Now let's get Van Brummen versus Vendrik out. The officials advise: this is such a hassle, so let us ask someone from the Court of Auditors to advise. That's what your predecessor is told. Then they say, no, we're taking someone from the D.A.'s office itself. That was just the one who wasn't supposed to hear who it was all about, Mr. Bitch. A director-general had to be flown in to do so. That report had to be included in the final report. That wasn't bad official advice. That was a wrong political choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u129	I endorsed the recommendations and conclusions of the Oosting Committee. This one goes with it. I agree with Mr Pechtold.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u130	Yeah, but "subscribed"? I read "accepted." The Minister accepts the conclusions. Does he share them, too? Does he agree? He says, "Oosting hits the board completely, because we've missed the board?"
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u131	"We"? I'm talking about my role in that. I did not bear any final responsibility for the Minister's handling of this dossier. So I said what I said about "we." I share the conclusion of the Oosting Committee as it stands, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u132	There's something I want to know. Mr Vendrik, someone who understands political processes and is a member of the Court of Auditors, seemed to me to be an excellent candidate. Although the Minister is not responsible for that decision, he is responsible for what happened at the time and has also answered questions about it. Can he tell us why Mr Vendrik has been deviated from him? Why did the minister's predecessor choose Mr Van Brummen, who he knew from Rotterdam? When he was mayor, Van Brummen, if I'm not mistaken, was the prosecutor he used to do business with. Why was Mr Vendrik elected at the Ministry, where the administration has been advised to take Mr Vendrik, let me just say that a good knowledge of Mr Opstelten?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u133	I don't know if that has played a role or whether it has. One thing is certain: we have also replied in writing that the Minister thought that Mr Van Brummen, because the investigation had to be done at the Public Prosecutor's Office... I cannot find it so quickly, but it is very good in the written reply. According to the interview report mentioned in the report, the Minister considered it appropriate if this was done by someone from the Public Prosecutor's Office, who was not more involved, because it was an investigation into the archives of the Public Prosecutor's Office. I understand that from the report of the Oosting Committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u134	That is very much the suspicion that you do not want to have an outside eye, but that you want to have someone inside, while by the way the boss of the Public Prosecutor, Mr Bolhaar, advised you not to do so. Then an idiotic construction had to be chosen in which the person for whom the whole investigation was concerned, Mr. Teeven, had to be heard by another. During that trial, did the Minister never feel that there was really nothing wrong with what they did there?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u135	I didn't follow the trial at that point. It ended in a confidential report to the Chamber, on which the Minister sent a letter stating the essence of the report and much more amounts than were mentioned at the time. I note that the Oosting Committee says that the Minister should have had this done by an external researcher. In similar cases, you should do the same. That's the line I've accepted and I'll take over. The Chamber can count on that. Both the Oosting Committee and the Heritage Inspectorate have made a number of practical recommendations, which I am of course taking over. I am pleased to conclude that huge steps have already been taken to improve archive management, but it is still not optimal. Therefore, the quality can be further increased. The report gives reason to review a number of work processes at the Public Prosecutor's Office. I have already decided that the College of Attorneys General will be strengthened with an Attorney General for business. I also consult with that college to add a member to that college, especially for redesigning and designing work processes, also in connection with the Hoekstra report. This could also include the recommendations of the Oosting Committee. The committee's report may have a positive message on one point. It states that the Committee considers it unlikely that a similar settlement will be possible to repeat itself in the present time. Nevertheless, the Committee also makes a number of recommendations on this point which will be implemented. There is a clearer definition of the cases in which a prosecutor can enter an withdrawal order and in which cases a proposed withdrawal order should be submitted to the Chief Prosecutor, the College of Attorneys-General or the Minister. In addition, more attention will be paid to proportionality of settlements and coordination with the Tax Administration. This is regulated in the existing designation of the Public Prosecutor's Office and in the Tax Administration's cooperation protocol. Another recommendation from the committee, the examination of the need for judicial review of withdrawal, I am involved in the modernisation of the Code of Criminal Procedure. I will also clarify the guarantees surrounding the commitments on take-off. Furthermore, the Public Prosecutor's Office will consider how more openness can be given to withdrawals. I agree with the recommendation that the willingness to pay a sum of money in order to remove illegally obtained benefit cannot lead to pardon. In practice, moreover, this recommendation already provides for work to be carried out. Where necessary, this will be further specified or clarified in the rules on pardon.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u136	We have referred in the written questions to the section on the Tax Administration which the Minister is now discussing. Oosting says there was no justification for not involving the Tax Administration in the settlement of this withdrawal. We have asked the Minister whether the Tax Administration has been excluded from other settlements since 1998. The answer to the Court is that there are no other settlements known. I have two problems with this settlement. It has laundered 4.7 million and has been actively involved in preventing the taxpayer from making a declaration. The answer to that is that there was only a law for it from 2001, but I cannot imagine that before 2001 there was not also a law that prohibited or fined money laundering in one way or another. I would therefore like to know two things about the Minister. Is it true that there has been laundering and that a criminal offence has been committed under the legislation before 2001? And is the fact that Officer Teeven has cooperated in not reporting to the Tax Office even more so, that circumvention of all tax authorities is still not due? Is there therefore a reason to declare under Article 69 of the General Law on State taxes?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u137	On the first point, the Oosting Committee did not draw any conclusions. There is an extensive exposé attached to the report, from my mind as Annex 3, on how this legislation was put together at the time. The Committee does not come to the conclusion that there would be a criminal offence. I note that the Oosting Committee indicated that the last time the Tax Administration was left out of the settlement. I also note that we already know from the debate that took place on 10 March this year with the Prime Minister and the Secretary of State for Finance that Mr H. was not responsible for taxation in the Netherlands. We therefore do not know whether he should have paid taxes or made a declaration here. The Oosting Committee also has an opinion on this and says that it might well be that way, so I paraphrase for a moment, because I do not know where the quote is so quickly, but that it has not been able to establish it. I think that's what the Oosting Committee says. I have no information other than this one.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u138	Maybe this part's going a little too far for tonight. Oosting leaves in the middle whether it's criminal, but says there's no justification to keep the Tax Administration out of it. That is why I would ask the Minister to look into two things and to hear from him in writing. One: was it money laundering and was there legislation for 2001 that covered this? Because let's face it: the money was transferred from Luxembourg to the Netherlands and then the Netherlands. So it's been in the Netherlands. Two: is the passage about not reporting a taxable person, who was actively admitted by officers Teven and Swagerman, still punishable? Is the Ministry or the Public Prosecutor willing to go after it himself and see if we can get any of that tax money back?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u139	I have no objection to coming back to that. I think that the answer to question one is already contained in the report of the Oosting Committee. If that is the case, I will refer to it. If it isn't, I'll explain. The second question I am going to look into for Mr Pechtold and I will put the answer on paper. I come now to Mr Segers' question as to whether the position, reputation or truth is important. Of course, Mr Segers can deduce from my words that it is about the truth and not about reputation or position. Mr Klaver has asked how damaging the deal is. I find it difficult to describe the deal with Cees H. in terms of harm or not. I have no more information on the transaction than the Oosting Committee has been able to establish. And the committee has established that the deal cannot pass the test of criticism, and I have accepted that judgment. Mr Klaver also asked me how I felt about the way in which the Chamber was informed. It goes without saying that this was one of the reasons why my predecessor resigned. Mr Klaver also asked why Mr Van Brummen had so short time for his research.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u140	The minister says his predecessor resigned because of the information. There's something very unusual about that, because earlier he said that he was very involved in what happened in the department at the time. He said he was too much of a kid at the house. That is, of course, strange, because this minister gives the impression that he could do a lot there, but his predecessor resigned. Didn't Secretary of State Teeven ever say anything to him in that year: watch out, what the Minister said is wrong, it's a different amount? I'm also thinking about the relations within the party. So you're thinking, "Somebody says that, right?" Or was that never said to the minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u141	No, that was never said to me. In fact, I do not know more than what is in the report of the Oosting Committee and what has been shared earlier, namely that Mr Teeven said that the Minister had done the right thing at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u142	You say you've been too many. So there must have been more that you say afterwards: I don't need to know, and we all don't know, but I have been involved and shouldn't have. This leaves a very strange atmosphere about this debate. The Minister says first: contacts with the MPs are good. Now he says, no, I was too involved, but that didn't lead to me being better informed, and I would never do it again, apart from the fact that he's not a Member of Parliament anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u143	That is an adequate description of what I have said. At the time when the press release was brought into a Minister Opstelten's office, I should have said: this is really something about the department; I will not interfere with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u144	Just to be sure, what you did next was nothing but give some oral suggestions. You didn't write press releases or letters to change texts yourself?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u145	I did, however, give advice on texts at a number of times at the request of the Minister. He asked me to look at those lyrics, and I did. I gave advice on that. It was up to the minister to see what he did with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u146	Is the answer "yes, I did it in writing, with pen or anything else" or "no, it was oral"?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u147	Yeah, I did that in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u148	Why, then, does the answer to the questions state that they were merely oral suggestions?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u149	It's about the 4th of March. Those were just oral suggestions. I did not make any written suggestions there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u150	Finally, Mr Buma.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u151	I asked the specific question whether you made your suggestions orally or in writing. You will reply orally.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u152	March 4th.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u153	That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u154	On 4 March I only made oral suggestions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u155	When the Minister spoke about the deal and about the conclusions and recommendations of the Oosting Committee, he said he accepted them. What does the word "accept" mean in this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u156	That I take over the conclusions of the Oosting Committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u157	Does that also mean that you agree with them and that you agree with them?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u158	If you take over something, you agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u159	We saw the Prime Minister's press conference. He said, "Maybe there's more to tell about the report." Did he say that partly on behalf of the Minister of Security and Justice? Should we mean accepting the report?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u160	I don't quite understand this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u161	The Prime Minister has said that there may be an additional deal, additional information, there may be things that we do not know and that are covered in mists. That could give the deal extra credibility or be an additional reason why that deal was concluded, or: there is another story next to the story of the Oosting Committee. If the Minister of Justice then says he accepts the report, is it or could there still be all kinds of stories around it and does he keep that option open?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u162	The Oosting Committee is very clear about this. I read in a national newspaper this morning that Mr Vrakking says that there is much more and that it is different. That is what he said in his discussion with the Oosting Committee. Of this, the Oosting Committee says that it has not been able to establish whether this is actually the case. I read that Mr Teeven said that it could be done in theory, but that he does not make any announcements about it. I'm gonna stick with that. I note with the Oosting Committee that it has not been able to establish whether it is. I also note that Mr Vrakking says that it is. I'm not deviating. I have no opinion other than the Oosting Committee. I cannot find anything other than the Oosting Committee on this point. I note, however, that Mr Vrakking has a different opinion on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u163	However, I note that we have had a 40-minute press conference, in which the Prime Minister has gone into this exercise in detail and indeed explored the Vrakk option. Was that partly on behalf of the Minister of Security and Justice? Was that tuned into the VVD summit?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u164	The Prime Minister himself will undoubtedly talk about this in this way. I note that Mr Vrakking said not only in the report but also today in a national newspaper and reiterated that there would be more. I, together with the Oosting Committee, note that it has not been able to establish that it is at issue. That is what I can say. I have therefore accepted the report of the Oosting Committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u165	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u166	Mr Klaver asked why Mr Van Brummen was given such a short time for his research. That question was also put in writing. The limitation in time was linked to the request of the Chamber of 9 April 2014 during the arrangement of work. At the time it was requested to send the inquiry and its results to the Chamber by the end of April. On 25 April, my predecessor then sent a letter stating that it had not yet been completed and finally the report was sent to the Chamber on 26 May. I have taken note of the opinion of the Oosting Committee, which I endorse, that it would have been wiser to have either an independent researcher do the work or give Mr Van Brummen more time for his research.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u167	Mr. Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u168	I have also read this in the reply to the written questions. I had another question, namely why Mr Van Brummen was only given twelve days. The Minister then had four weeks to respond and to send four concepts up and down. That's what I cared about. If it was really meant for truth finding, wouldn't he have a lot more room for an investigation?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u169	I note that the Oosting Committee has also noted this. I have accepted that conclusion. The last question that Mr Samsom asked me was whether I agree with the Oosting Committee on the passage in the BOOM opinion, which was made confidentially available to the Chamber, which had been blacked out. As I indicated in the reply, the reason was that it was then found to be a personal policy concept of the Public Prosecutor's Office. But especially if you look back, I fully agree with the Oosting Committee that it would have been wiser not to paint that passage. My policy will also be to look very closely at the question of when things will be painted, because I would like to avoid this kind of discussion. I will inform the Chamber in February.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u170	My request to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and, in broad terms, to the Cabinet for a more precise definition of what a "personal policy concept" is. This is also going to play a role in this debate on another point. Every time there's no clarity about it. This gives noise on all kinds of lines and especially gives too little information to the Chamber. I therefore think it would be wise, for example, for the Minister of V and J to take the lead in writing a little more clearly than we have so far. So far, it seems to be mainly ad hoc. That doesn't help the truth.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u171	I will take the lead in asking the Minister for Home Affairs and Kingdom Relations, who is responsible for the Public Administration Act of which this is a part, to reflect further on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u172	Thank you. I now give the floor to the Prime Minister. I see Mr Pechtold coming to the interrupting microphone. Do you have a question for the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u173	Yes. He was extremely fast.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u174	Then I'll ask the Minister to stand still for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u175	The Minister has now had his first term, but I would still like to look back with him at how it all went at the beginning of March. He's been to that ministry twice. He's told me more about that now. He also regretted it, but in those same weeks Minister Schippers, now his colleague, said on 14 March in De Telegraaf: I describe that it is no coincidence that incidents are now emerging. Then she says something abstract: "One says: the underworld. The other one, the lawyer. Or at Justice." Those are quite allegations, including towards the Ministry of Justice. Then what does MP Van der Steur do? It runs on the Warmondermarkt leaflets to distribute and tweets: Many positive reactions to campaign and the comments of Edith Schippers. How does Mr Van der Steur, now Minister, look back on those weeks in March, on what he himself has experienced and on the fact that he has contributed to the image that dark forces would be working to organize all this? Oosting concludes: a canard. That's bullshit!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u176	I note that the Oosting Committee found that there was no reason to assume that there was anything other than sound investigative journalism. Since I endorsed the whole report and accepted its conclusions, I also accept that conclusion. The tweet I sent, already fliering at the market in Warmond, was a fact. There were a lot of people who claimed to say to me: how nice that it is finally said. I did not support that comment. That is quite apart from the fact that the only thing I can see is that it was at least the first occasion of Newsuur that the information came from a criminal angle.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u177	Of course, it's only 140 signs, but what a relief that what was said was not the opinion of campaigning MP Van der Steur, who had been to the ministry twice, who knew that amounts were mumbling and who knew that notes had to be taken out of vaults. No, he's involved in accusing underworld and law. Well, one is me so far, and the other one, I don't think it's very neat if you don't have facts. But he also says, like Schippers, they may also be dark forces in the Justice Department. He's responsible for that ministry now. Throughout the answer now in the first period, I also hear him tell me again and again what needs to be improved in the ministry. I would like to hear a reflection on the accusations made by Schippers, which he has supported in his tweet, and on the fact that there is once again being referred to civil servants today and that there is not even one turn to him today, to himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u178	In this debate, I think I have pointed to myself quite in detail. I have also indicated where I think I should have made other choices in my role as a Member of Parliament. As a minister, I have indicated that, as far as I am concerned, it is my job to start a process of change in a number of areas. This applies not only to the officials, but also to me as a minister. I'll pick up that part and I'll take it. For the rest, whatever Mr Pechtold makes out of the tweet, I note that the report by the Oosting Committee states that there was no reason to assume that there was a set-up. That is what the Oosting Committee says, and I agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u179	I put a question to the Secretary of State through the Minister. I wonder if it can still be answered before the Prime Minister starts. That question is about 9 March and the curious moment the Minister opened: the dg comes in with his note. The Minister says that goes too far for me. And the Secretary of State sits down and says, "No, you can't." I want to know from the Secretary of State why he didn't make the same moral judgment as the Minister at the time and not just like him left.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u180	I believe that Mr Dijkhoff has answered the question in the time limit in which questions were put to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u181	That seems difficult, because I asked you the question and Mr Dijkhoff's term had already been.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u182	But Mr Dijkhoff has already explained why he took note of the discussion report. That's where the answer is. I'll take a look at the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u183	If the Secretary of State has already said it, then maybe he can do it again...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u184	Why this is so important is because the Minister opened up I already fell over there with: that official comes with his piece and I am not going to look at it of course. But I read the written answers and I see that the Secretary of State remained ordinary, and so it was good to see the notes, which contained the EUR 4.8 million and the amounts. And that's what it's all about, of course. I just want an answer to this. It's a moral consideration, and I want to know how it was made by the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u185	Can the Minister respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u186	I cannot speak on behalf of the Secretary of State, but let me say that both the Secretary of State and I believe that on 4 March we should have already taken the decision not to take notice of it. So when the concept of the press release was brought in. We both believe that this was a relocation that we should have seen afterwards, given the reflexes we asked for, to say: this is where our task ends.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u187	Before I give the floor to the Secretary of State, I will see if Mr Segers has a question for the Minister. Otherwise, we're gonna keep going back and forth.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u188	I have a question for the Minister, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u189	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u190	I'm still chewing on the answer to my question as to what we're doing with the smokescreens that have taken off again around possible extra deals, secret deals, stories behind Oosting's story. As far as I am concerned, it would be difficult for us to accept this report if we were not able to put an end to it. The Chamber is asking for a commission and for an investigation. There's gonna be a big report of over 400 pages. Oosting says, "This is it. I've heard the story of Vrakking; we've looked into it. We have offered Bitches to talk confidentially." Now the smoke machine is turned on again in the vein of: what we don't know, we don't know and it could still be done. Can we just put an end to it and say, "This is it?"
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u191	I think we can make a point because the Oosting Committee has spoken with Mr Vrakking and has taken note of his statements and then found that there is no reason to think about them anymore. I'll hold onto that. I don't see any reason to find anything else or anything about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u192	If there is any doubt, if the Minister thinks there could be another story, and if that doubt also exists on the side of the Chamber, then we will have to do further research. Then it's gonna have to be re-examined. Are there any facts we don't know? Is there a story behind the story? If there's only one beginning of doubt, it needs to be investigated. If there is no doubt, we can make a point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u193	That is, of course, up to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u194	That's true. I would ask the Secretary of State if he can give a short answer to Mr Buma's question. The noise you heard was a small accident in the public gallery.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u195	Mr. Chairman. I was asked why I stayed in that Monday. That note wasn't shared on Wednesday. There was some verbal announcements. The receipt was found on Monday. Mr Klaver already asked what questions I had. I've been able to find it. That Monday, I was even more dreaded and sharper towards the people there at the table. I thought it was weird that the receipt was found. I asked, "Why has it been found? Is there a good enough search? Why hasn't there been more work done?" There were answers to that. I told you before that one of the reaction lines was back then: we needed the data from Newsuur to find it. So I started asking questions. If you could have found it last year without Nieuwsuur, would you have found it if you'd searched in the lawyer's name, or in the creditors' name, or by date? The answer was: yes, we would have found it. Well, then you can't say you needed news hours. Then I asked if there was anything you could have found in those memories. The answer was no, it's not. But I was a little more critical, so I asked him if he was sure. Then he said, "I'll have to bring in my conversation note, my notes." I said I didn't need to see it. It was then mentioned as personal notes and it was also said that they were taken by Van Brummen. Then he said he'd like to bring it in. I said, yes, you do. I thought, "I'm not going because someone says to call it in, "let's just say it." I was then, perhaps from a somewhat miserable emotion, in such a way that I thought that if the creditor's name or the date were in the memory, this might have led to it, combined with a better search, that it might have been found. I found that useful for the imaging. In the end, this perception meant that I did not leave with a very positive feeling and perhaps the Minister also based his conclusions on that exchange of views.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u196	I ask this question because the Minister said that at the beginning of the moment the dg said he was coming up with those pieces, that this was the border for him, that he couldn't participate in this and that he was leaving. Has there indeed been such a clear moment when Van der Steur said he was leaving, but you apparently thought: you can go, but I'm staying?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u197	I was not focused on Mr Van der Steur at the time. I also said that I didn't have to read it or see it, but if someone's going to get something to refresh his memory, I don't say: leave it. I was just questioning the place pretty critically. That didn't lead me to think: good story!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u198	I am going on because the moment the Minister said he couldn't do it anymore was the moment when the official came in. That was the moment when he couldn't do it anymore. There are two possibilities: it was indeed so or it was one tooth less. I say quite honestly that I do not rule out the latter when I hear the Secretary of State like that. The minister didn't make it very clear that this was the moment when he couldn't and wouldn't carry morale anymore. He didn't say, Klaas, let's not do this! No, you stayed there. You even crossed the line to the Minister's standards, but he left. That's the image you're both putting here, isn't it? This is the core, isn't it? One of them says this was the border for me, so I left. The other says: yes, I was critical, so I stayed. The question is whether there was clearly a moment when the minister woke up and said it couldn't be done. Did that moment really happen? Is that really made clear? I'm so terrified that the Minister is just making things a little bit more beautiful here. This is evident from the way the Secretary of State says it, because he has no memory of what the Minister did.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u199	At that time, the Secretary of State fell apart. Yes, it is. I know. I just explained why I didn't leave and asked around. I did mention that I didn't have to see it or read it. In hindsight, next time someone with a personal note arrives... if I'd seen it, I would have concluded something else. I understand this image is a little messy. If we'd made it up, we'd have come up with something better.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u200	One final question, Mr Buma. If we don't, we're gonna repeat ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u201	One more time and I'll quit. I think this is important. The Secretary of State is now talking about the image, but the Minister is throwing up the image. That is important to the Chamber because the Minister says: really, people, I have that standard and I stopped there! Turns out the Secretary of State didn't do that. In fact, he saw the Minister leaving, then even MP, but the Minister did not make it so clear at all. He just went. I think that's a whole different story. I don't think that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u202	In my view, we have both indicated here that the standard had already been exceeded a long time ago and that we should have said that Wednesday, when the press release came out, that the border is here; we are not going to do this. Then the rest wouldn't have happened either. Other than that, it's like I just told you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u203	Thank you. I now give the floor to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u204	Madam President. I have been in politics for 13 years and this is by far the toughest debate in my political career. The criticism of the Court at first instance was severe and I am afraid that this has also been justified. I will try to show in my answer what lessons I have learned myself. I shall begin with that in a moment, not least with Mr Klaver's question. This will undoubtedly be the basis of all the other questions raised. First of all, I would like to say that I only made it worse with my press conference last Friday because I there, challenged by a journalist, you should never let that happen. In the end, I combined two elements of the Oosting report: the part of the Oosting report in which we are talking about what exactly we know about the deals that have been or have not been concluded for the gourmet: that is on page 259 of the report and the conclusions of the Oosting report on page 272. Klip-and-ready, I fully support, from a to z, the conclusions of Oosting on page 272. There is nothing I know but what is in this report about compensations that might or might not have been delivered. However, having reflected so extensively on this report in my first reaction to a press conference, I have given rise to the suspicion that I do not agree with the conclusions of Oosting and that I would have knowledge of what was behind the deal, which is not the case. That's an incredible stupidity. That's after the report came out, when I made it worse. I will only stay with Mr Klaver and the other lessons I have learned. I have always, as an introduction, taken a position when the functioning of a State Secretary or Minister in a previous position is under discussion, especially if that position is characterised by a great deal of secrecy and it is complicated for the Public Prosecutor to ask questions about it in the current position. I welcome the fact that Minister Opstelten had that report drawn up by Van Brummen, although it is now clear that that report was not good. We now know that it did not meet the requirements of quality, but I could not know that at the time. In any case, I was very pleased that he had a report drawn up. Then, in the autumn of last year and early this year, the matter continued: is there a receipt, then what is the amount and what is it about? I don't think I can be asked to do truth-finding. That's not from General Affairs. I do not mean to repeat the quote on all matters and General Affairs. I mean, that's not the job of General Affairs. It's the department's job. However, I should have sat much more on the ball to make sure that in the process everything was done to get the bottom stone up. I didn't do that, which allowed that case to go on longer than it might have been necessary. I don't know if that truth was discovered before, but I'm taking that lesson. My next point is about the conversation note. I hear on Tuesday 10 March, in preparation for the debate, that there is this note and that there is no discussion report. Mr Pechtold asked me about it in the first term and I replied that there was no discussion report. In the break, I asked what it was like. You can now see in the Oosting report how that went there. At that time, there was not enough time to challenge to content and then talk to the official about whatever should have happened to determine whether or not it was a personal note. The lesson I'm taking from this is that if something like this happens again, I'm just gonna take more time. Then I call the President: a matter has arisen in the first term of the Chamber; I need more time to find out. Then I could have read the document and I could have found that there were no personal policy ideas in it from the official concerned. I thought that was essential. Then I could have entered into the discussion, which I certainly would have done. I'm not gonna overrule that official who says it's a personal note. No, then I would have entered into the conversation with him to determine whether or not it wasn't a personal note. I should have taken more time for that. I would like to point out that if it happens again, I will not confine myself to the communication under pressure of time: I am here on the compass of this official, which I do for lack of time. On another occasion, I will call the President: I need more time for this suspension in order to be able to sort out this issue precisely. I will stop here for a moment, because I see some of your colleagues standing in front of the microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u205	Yeah, I see them, too. I shall begin with Mr Pechtold.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u206	I would like to return to that moment of the debate on 10 March. We've been at it for a year. There have been two broadcasts from Nieuwsuur and the rulers have resigned. I come in first term with that note, as I've been told. I describe it on purpose a few times wide, because I'm already afraid I'll be caught on words. At the end of the first period, I repeat my question to make sure that it is answered after the first period. So the point of time pressure doesn't apply. I say it quite quickly in a five-hour debate. After I repeat it and explicate it, the suspension lasts an hour. After that, it is still maintained that it is not there. We've seen it now. It's an A4's, not even described. There's hardly any numbers on it. There's only one number: 4.8. You can see that with one look. Fortunately, in the report on the discussion with the Oosting Committee, that is now available, and for that I have respect for it, we now read that Prime Minister Rutte has also seen that number, with a 'bad eye' as he says. My theory is next. From that moment on, the Prime Minister thought: now it's impossible to hold. He thought: now I have to go with that Chamber and now I have to make sure that this motion Slob, which calls for an investigation, is carried out. However, he could also have chosen to say that he had heard the question throughout the first term, that he had had an hour to look at it, that the amount was there and that it was not a very big story. It was just one screenshot... I understand it was the prime minister shown on an iPad...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u207	No, it was physical.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u208	Then it was a piece of paper. It doesn't matter. There was only one number: 4.8.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u209	It was two numbers. I didn't see the other number.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u210	So I want to know from the Prime Minister why, after a year of fuss and the resignation of two government officials, he still didn't say at the time: there is indeed a piece of paper or whatever you should call it, there is an amount on it and it's only 0.1 percent of what Nieuwsuur says.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u211	I understand what Mr. Pechtold is saying. I don't know if I can convince him tonight. I think we've always worked together in good faith. All I can do is outline what happened and then it's up to him to trust it. I heard about the existence of those notes in the afternoon. Mr Pechtold asked me in the first period of the debate whether there was a report. I said to honor and knowledge that there was no such thing. During the break I said: boys, we need to be very precise now, because apparently this is very relevant to the debate. It was said at the time that there was something: a personal note that was in this official's safe. This official was involved in Van Brummen's entire investigation. That's how it turned out to be the reconstruction later. Partly on this basis, Van Brummen concluded that there are insufficient evidence to support memories. But during that suspension, of course, I didn't control that file. After all, I would not have spent every day working on this dossier. That is clear from the other comments I made on whether I should not have been on top of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u212	But Chairman,...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u213	Just let me finish my answer. It is important what I say about this, because it is directly about the trust between Mr Pechtold and me. I assure him, this is how it went. I had an hour or half an hour in that suspension. I really do not remember how long that suspension was; if Mr Pechtold has checked that it was an hour, he will be right. But I had a great deal of questions to ask about a dossier that I was confronted with the previous day and that afternoon. That file had led to the resignation of a minister and a secretary of state had also found reason to leave. I had to make that file mine. We went through all these questions in great detail at the time. About this piece, I asked what was going on. I made two considerations at the time. First of all, it wasn't a new piece that had never been treated anywhere, but it was by Van Brummen involved in his conclusions. Secondly, I was planning to do so even more before the debate, as I said in the debate to suggest that we should get to the bottom of this. Eventually, the Slob motion went one step further and a completely independent investigation was made of it. I went along with that, too. However, I would like to take away from Mr Pechtold the point I was thinking about: now I have to go along with the Slob motion. It had yet to be filed. I had long thought, also for the debate, that it would be necessary to know the seam of this. There was no other way. The motion Slob continued and made a completely independent investigation of it. That's how the debate went down. That's how it went to honor and conscience. With Mr Pechtold, I note that if you look at the piece now with that Ruttian evil eye, the amount of 4.8 or 4.9 stands out. However, there was also another number in it. It turned out to be 7.1. If you read the piece completely, it turned out to be estimates. Bitch said in the play that he didn't know exactly what was going on either. So there's no truth in that. In fact, the day before it turned out to be 4.7. At that time, however, I did not know that, and I have not been able to establish that either. I only saw through my eye hairs 4,8 or 4,9 and no 2,3 or all those notes around it. I say it directly to Mr Pechtold: that is what happened. As true as I stand here. I'm not telling you fables. I knew it would go to Oosting, or at least to an investigation that eventually became Oosting's investigation. I knew it would be involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u214	If the Prime Minister says that to me, I will have to believe that part. We've been working together for ten years. But I'm also saying, in case he feels relief right now...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u215	No, I really don't feel that today.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u216	But, I say, of course, it's distinctive. It is formatter Rutte who when he gets crimefighter Bitches to visit him as candidate executive doesn't think: maybe ask again what happened. For a year, from the first broadcast of Newsuur to the second one year later, and a whole week of chaos, the Chamber tries to find truth in your cabinet. You are actually saying quite honestly now: I did not start preparing until that debate was already going on that afternoon, and I never really got involved in the year before. That's actually what that report says. Every time it's hard, you say, "Well, that Van Brummen they have to do that, that Bitch I don't really want to talk to, I have him on the phone, I hear a final number, but no, just say what kind of numbers they were, don't call the numbers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u217	No...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u218	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, This is indicative of how it was prepared. That note from dg Roes was in Minister Opstelten's preparation folder, probably all year round. He was with Dg Roes. It was in the head of Bitch, who mumbled it a few times, said or whatever. You had it in the BPO, you had it in the Council of Ministers and you had it in your own group, in which two MPs knew it. You could have made it anywhere. But it wasn't until we found out and started asking, that the interest came.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u219	Let me try to put some reflections on what Mr Pechtold is saying here. First of all, it's not like I didn't interfere with the case. As I pointed out just now, I had to sit more on the ball than I should have had my eye on the ball, and I have determined what I have done. Of course, I asked Opstelten if he would have that checked out. Yes. That was Van Brummen. When these conclusions were reached, I asked, among other things, Teeven if he could agree with the conclusions of Van Brummen, in that whole phrase of insufficient support and so on. I repeated that question on 4 March, when Nieuwsuur turned out to bring a sum of 4.7 in the evening. By the way, we know afterwards what was in the mind of Teeven: a sum of 7.1, not of 4.7. However, we did not know that, at least I did, until this report was published. I have not seen any of those two figures, namely 4.8 or 4.9, on that evening of 10 March, in the suspension of that debate. So Roes' note was part of Van Brummen's process. That note was seen by Van Brummen and involved in his investigation. That wasn't a piece that had never been processed anywhere that had never been treated anywhere. So I understand the criticism, and part of it I care about. I could have done more when this just kept playing. I could have said: 'Hey, guys, it's a departmental responsibility, of course, I can't be obliged to do truth-finding from General Affairs in detail, but I can make sure that the sharper questions are asked here. I blame myself, but it's not like I didn't do anything. On the day of the debate itself, of course, I had to look into it. I didn't know all the details about Cees H. and Boom and all the stuff. I had to know that before I could have the discussion with the Chamber that night about whether it was allowed and whether it was a good deal. We have all seen these issues come across in that debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u220	I told you in my term: if a citizen drives 5 km/h too fast, he gets a ticket and if he swindles the IRS, he gets a big fine and maybe even more. A criminal has now received 4.7 million euros. Gulden, I must say. 4.7 million guilders. People in the Netherlands don't understand that. What they understand even less is how it has been done: that this amount is kept under the hat for years, that there is no other way of saying it, that it is being cheated, that there is being denied, that there is being lied, that false press releases are going out. My question to the Prime Minister at the beginning of his term is: do you understand, if you let all that work on you, that the Dutchman loses faith in politics and has also lost faith in you now? Do you understand?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u221	It is what the Committee of Inquiry says that I said it at the beginning and otherwise I say it again: I also congratulate the Committee on its work on page 272, which says that it does not escape the judgment that the withdrawal cannot pass the test of criticism and so on, etc. I would like to add my voice to that conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u222	I find it very strange, because I am asking a question and the Prime Minister looks at Mr Klaver when he answers me. He doesn't even want to look at me, but okay, so be it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u223	Excuse me. I looked in my book. I'm looking at you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u224	I specifically asked you: do you understand that people have lost faith in politics and in you because of all the cheating and all the lies? What happened? The Chamber has been misinformed by two VVD ministers. Letters have been sent confidentially to the Chamber in which sensitive passages have been painted black. A fellow party member of yours who isn't your fault.... has thrown it all through the shredder. There are pieces missing in the vault. Conspiracy theories have been used by someone from the cabinet. The statue is very true, and that is also the truth, I fear that all those VVDs have been cheating and chasing. I ask you, just to the man: do you understand that people have lost faith in politics, in the VVD and in you as Prime Minister and political leader of the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u225	Mr Wilders is now making a huge soup, where there are things that make sense and things that don't add up. Let me leave that for Mr Wilders. I'm looking right at him. Excuse me for just now; I looked in my book, not at Mr. Klaver. I'm looking right at him. The fact is that that is also the policy in the Netherlands. In the debate on 10 March we rightly decided to follow the motion of Arie Slob of the Christian Union and to establish an independent committee of inquiry, which produces this report which I think we all welcome. I was just talking to Mr Pechtold about that. The fact is that the Minister for Security and Justice resigned on 9 March. So it's not like things go wrong here without any further consequences. I would then understand Mr Wilders' harsh conclusions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u226	Much more has gone wrong. This has been under the hat for years. There are two rulers sitting next to you, I have just established, who have worked on a press release, who had knowledge of figures that the Chamber did not know, and who actually set things up. They're sitting next to you now! Those are from your party! And that's how hundreds of thousands more things happened. The people in the Netherlands really don't understand that you give a criminal millions while they themselves are caught at the slightest or least offense. What they certainly do not understand is that this is under the hat, that colleagues of yours who have contributed to it are rewarded with a ministership and a secretary of state, and that a Prime Minister, who should have intervened, has not missed a chance to look the other way. So it's 100% responsible. So let me look you in the eye: I understand that people have lost faith in you, and so am I.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u227	On that point, I did not have high expectations of our cooperation, but back to the substance of the matter. Mr Wilders mentions a number of elements that are correct and elements that are not correct. I told you, he's making it a little too complicated. That must also lead to consequences. We have drawn them politically together in two ways: firstly, an investigation, secondly, the departure of the Minister for Security and Justice on 10 March and then this debate, in which we have a wide-ranging taste of each other. As I said, this is the hardest debate in my political career. It is not so that things that are not going well are covered here in the Netherlands with the cloak of love. It will then be sorted out and, where necessary, political consequences will also be drawn. And that's the way it should be.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u228	Not only has Mr Rutte interfered too little in the matter, but he says that he is taking lessons from this from the discussion report of the Oosting Committee, which also shows that Mr Rutte says that he has intended to stay away from the deal from the outset. So he didn't just interfere actively; he stayed away from it. He didn't dive in any further. He didn't work on it anymore. That's been an active choice. My question is why?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u229	That wasn't about the receipt or the amount of the amount, but about the content of the deal. Exactly what agreements were made in "What exactly is the year?" Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, I stayed away from that, because I felt that it was not up to me to ask me whether the deal could be dealt with by Mr Oosting now says a lot about what that nuances. That is what I said in the debate on 10 March. On 10 March, I established that the prosecutor and the minister had cancelled it. I didn't think it was up to me to look into a deal that the D.A. had made 15 years ago. So when I say that to Oosting in the interview report, it is not about the receipt or the amount of the amount or the political settlement over the next two years. Then that refers directly to the content of the deal in 2000.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u230	The fact is that the Prime Minister has interfered too little with this whole matter. That's what he reported. He's arrived too late. He also indicated that he had not been well prepared for the debate on 10 March. That really raises the question: why did the Prime Minister come here so late? I think it's good that he says he needs to learn lessons from this and that he needs to do better. But why hasn't the Prime Minister seen the gravity of this case before? Why didn't the Prime Minister intervene earlier and take steps earlier? Why?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u231	What I found earlier and still think is that I shouldn't go into the deal 15 years ago. That is the first point to which Mr Klaver refers. And again, the Oosting report shows that there is a lot more to be said about this, but according to the state of affairs in March, it was in any case politically and highly sanctified by minister and prosecutor. That's the deal. As far as political settlement is concerned, I have, of course, interfered with business. I just outlined it. I have promoted an investigation. I checked that the conclusions of the investigation were accepted by those involved afterwards. When new facts turned up later, I asked whether this was yet another light on the matter and whether those conclusions could still be accepted, for example when it comes to my meeting with Secretary of State Bitch on 4 March. I have prepared the debate very well. That was on the night of March 10th. It was a very complicated debate, but I had prepared for it all day. I am merely saying to Mr Pechtold: precisely because it is a very complex and detailed matter, I really needed that suspension in order to be able to answer the questions properly. What I blame myself for when the case kept going on and new things came up, is not that I didn't start to find the truth at the time, because I never could have done that from General Affairs, but that I didn't promote that much deeper into that process to see what was going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u232	I thought you said you should've done that before. The answer to the written questions shows that the establishment of the Brummen Commission was a decision of then Minister Opstelten and that the Prime Minister was not involved. In the discussion with the Oosting Committee, the Prime Minister indicated that he was very satisfied with the fact that that committee was there and that he thought that was the right way forward. Now he has to conclude that it was not the right way to appoint this investigator from the D.A.'s office. So the Prime Minister can say that he has intervened at times, but that was absolutely, but completely, inadequate at the moments when he was there?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u233	In the meantime, thanks to the report by the Oosting Committee, we know that the Van Brummen Committee has done an inadequate job. I couldn't have known that when that committee was set up. I thought it was important for that committee to be set up. It has carried out research and drawn conclusions which were endorsed by all the main players. I checked it on other occasions. I do not believe that I am to blame for this. I blame myself for what I just outlined: when it kept messing around and there were amounts of money in the media every now and then, I should have said at some point: boys, we're going down again. Not to check the amounts or the deal from 2000, but to look at it, Mr Klaver is right in saying that Mr Van Brummen's investigation was thorough enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u234	Then my very simple question is: why didn't the Prime Minister do that? It's easy to say: sorry, I should have done better. But why didn't he? Did he really learn from it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u235	What I learned from it, I have outlined a few times: if something like this continues to mess around you better et cetera. I had no reason to, because I assumed this: there had been a report. Van Brummen had done an investigation in which all concerned could agree. Then there have been reports of this a number of times. On 4 March, for example, I asked Mr Teeven whether he could still agree with the conclusion of the Van Brummen report that there were insufficient evidence. I would like to say straight away to Mr Klaver: there are no amounts mentioned, neither indicative nor compiled or whatever. We didn't talk about amounts. I asked Mr Teven whether he could still agree with those conclusions. And then he said, "Yeah." What you have to establish is that the amount has been mentioned several times in the media between summer 2014 and March 2015. Thinking back to that, I say now: yes, Rutte, you had at some point, when news from the media, from lawyers or from someone from the underworld showed up again, I can't exactly get it back, but there were several moments when something came up again might say "hup, now in the depths."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u236	I come back to the point that he did not ask Mr Teeven for sums. On March 4th there will be a broadcast of Nieuwsuur. There's a figure coming out of that. The Prime Minister is on the phone with Mr. Teeven. At the end of that conversation, he's going to count on a sum of $5 million. How can you say 5 million if you haven't heard the amount from Mr. Bitch?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u237	There were a few amounts of money in the media. The amount of Newsuur was the 4.7 million, which was brought that evening. In addition, attorney Doedens had mentioned an amount of 5 million. So there were different amounts. Mr Teeven said to me: it is a basic amount plus interest. We now know what he had in mind: a total of 7.1 million, as the Ruffle note shows. From that postulate, basic amount plus interest, I made myself a cigar box calculation. That's all it was.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u238	The amount of 4.7 million comes out via Newshour. The Prime Minister's gonna do the math...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u239	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u240	... and comes to 5 million.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u241	Yeah, not that night.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u242	It says: the night of March 4th...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u243	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u244	...after the call with Mr. Teeven goes... Okay, that will have been the next day...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u245	No, that's not true, it was on Friday, but it doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u246	He and Mr Dijsselbloem are going to count on 5 million. What did the Prime Minister do with this information, which was very close to Newsuur's information and which was very far away from the amount previously mentioned against the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u247	What I knew at the time was that Doedens had named 5 million and Newshour 4.7 million. The amounts going around were somewhere between 2 million and 2.5 million. Of course, I was wondering how you could get from that kind of amount to 5 million. I'm just a simple alpha. I never realized interest on interest could have such a huge effect. I can tell by some of them that they do, but I didn't know that. I didn't realize that the interest rate at that time was much higher than it is now. It was 8% or 9% in the 1990s. Well, then you do come up with these kinds of amounts.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u248	I'd like to be compassionate with alpha people, only this is about information to the Chamber. This is about informing the Chamber, and that is a little more serious. This is a lingering issue in which several amounts have been mentioned, in which an investigation has been initiated and in which the investigator was not allowed to speak with Mr Teeven. It was not a committee; it was one researcher, who was not independent. The amounts keep coming through. They're counting. There will be other amounts, which are becoming more specific and prove that Newshour is right. There's a press release out there saying Newshour came up with the wrong information. Then the Prime Minister has to make every effort and say: and now I want to know the seam of the stocking and will I personally ensure that the Chamber is properly and adequately informed?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u249	The facts we had at the time were also obvious. The facts were that in 2014 Opstelten had mentioned amounts of which he had to say in the summer of 2014 that he couldn't actually call them that. In June, the Chamber politically accepted these conclusions. So we basically ran out of money. Then, of course, there were rumours: the 5 million Doedens and the 4.7 million since that Wednesday in Nieuwsuur. But the only research we had was Van Brummen's investigation, which said that there are not enough memories to support an amount.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u250	I do not know if the Prime Minister is aware of it, but this is a demonstration of: start by apologizing twice and then systematically refer all the detailed questions of any colleague to the realm of fables and explain that we all see things wrong here. We spent two years as a room trying to get the bottom stone up. Two rulers have resigned. Another ruler thinks it's a conspiracy theory. There's all kinds of numbers coming up. And all this time, the Prime Minister has been absent and has hardly done anything with it. He also asked Mr Teeven not the shirt of the body: what exactly happened? Then he apologizes twice, and then refers everything to the realm of fables. How on earth can we regain credibility if this is the Prime Minister's attitude?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u251	That's not my intention. I have already told all the questioners that I understand the questions and try to answer them with all due conscience. Take the memory of Bitch. We've all been able to see the notebook. It's coming up at 7.1 million. That is a very different amount from the 4.7 that Nieuwsuur came up with and which was on the receipt of the Monday morning. We knew from Van Brummen that, partly on the basis of the conversation that Roes had with Teeven, there were not enough substantiated memories. That was his conclusion. Also in the note of Roes you can see that. I do not take Van Brummen's conclusion to mine, because there is a lot of methodological to note on that research, on how fast it has gone and so on. That's what Oosting says. So we simply didn't know. Since the summer of last year, there has been no money that could be called credible by the cabinet. Set-ups had mentioned amounts a few times. He said in the summer: I should not mention amounts. Van Brummen also says: it is also very unwise to mention them, because there are not enough memories to support. That was the situation. Then things turn up, and I blame myself for that. Exactly that point, I say to Mr Roemer. He's also right to say that I could have done more there. That doesn't apply to the truth finding. I make that distinction very clear, because I cannot do that, but I could have said in the process: okay, we had Van Brummen and he has drawn conclusions, but it keeps getting through. Not that I'm gonna do research myself, but, I don't know, maybe there could have been a second investigation. Well, that's the question. I blame myself for not having made an extra effort during that process, an extra effort to get those things on the table. The last thing I want to do, and then I shall close, Mr President-in-Office, is to put aside the remarks made by Mr Roemer or others here as irrelevant. They are all relevant comments and they show that until Monday morning 9 March it simply did not succeed in knowing what it was about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u252	If, within twenty minutes, Mr Dijkhoff can see that the receipt can be found with a slightly different search, and I can go on for a long time, that is a reproach to the Prime Minister that he has done nothing with it. It is two years trying to keep party mates out of the wind and continue to support them. The Prime Minister is now saying that he accepts the conclusions of a tough report. He apologizes for not doing a few things and for having given a press conference that has only made things worse. If you add all that together, what is the Prime Minister's conclusion? Shouldn't he draw a different conclusion than he has now?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u253	I deny there was an attempt to keep people out of the wind, if you'd even want that to work. Why would you want to do that? We are all here for the rule of law, as Mr Samsom said, and to ensure that the Chamber is properly informed. This came up in March 2014. I was informed then, too. An investigation was then initiated. This study shows that it is not sufficiently clear what amounts are involved. There has been no attempt to cover anything. Neither does the Oosting Committee. Mistakes have been made. There's been a methodological mistake with Van Brummen. I don't blame myself for not looking for the truth, because that's not my job. I do blame myself for not saying earlier that, when this continued to go on for so long, we might have to do another investigation. So I should have made a lead suggestion in the process to see if we could do something with all those signals. But there has been no attempt, Mr Roemer, to cover anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u254	For two years, the Chamber has been trying to get information. Not only MPs but also journalists are constantly looking, but the Prime Minister still doesn't get a light on it, because it's really getting out of hand. That doesn't happen even if directors have resigned. Even when the report is on the table, the Prime Minister is still tempted to say things he should regret later on at a press conference. The attitude from day one to the last day is always nonchalant. It is not the attitude to protect the rule of law, to inform the Chamber correctly and to try to solve the problems as quickly as possible. The Prime Minister has no choice but to ask: have I indeed done the right thing and should I not draw the hardest conclusion myself? But he's actually writing a new chapter to the chapter "Sorry Democracy."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u255	I must, of course, ask myself whether I have properly informed the Chamber. I believe the answer is yes at all times. Did I make sure that the logical process steps were taken and that investigation was done? Yeah, that's what happened. If it continues to go on then, and that is my lesson, then it is better to do a second study. Mr Roemer also says that even if the rulers have resigned, they are not going to find out what the situation is. But we knew what was going on then. At that time the 4.7 million was known, because that was Monday 9 March, the first time I heard of it myself. I got a call on Monday morning with the message that the receipt had been found and thus the evidence that it was about. The report with conclusions on the quality of Van Brummen's research and on the whole process in 2014-2015 I do not question in any way. I didn't do that on Friday. What I am blaming myself for at that point is that I committed the clumsyness, the unwiseness, that's even harder to get back to the deal in 2000, as I just outlined. This gave me the impression that there would be more information or that I would not follow the conclusions of the Oosting Committee. That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u256	The most deceptive of all that we have heard and read now is perhaps that it gives us a glimpse of the way in which the departments are run. It is a glimpse of the way in which Security and Justice are run. That's like some kind of VVD party office. Anything that goes against the goal of making the VVD big on that department, must be sidelined, whatever rules are put aside. A MP just said he had too much influence. The Prime Minister says he had too little influence; it happened under his eyes. We have seen that a year ago, the Prime Minister, in setting up the committee, mainly pointed out to the officials. How is it that so much is being leaked into the department, then the question was. That had to be investigated. How is it that the information does not come to the ministers? Turns out what? Those ministers stopped it. In short, therefore, I ask the Prime Minister to reflect on this. What happened during these five years, which turned the Department of Security and Justice into some sort of VVD party office and not the political leadership but the officials were blamed? The first thing this new minister did was throw out the sg, the highest official. Last Friday, the Prime Minister exalted Mr. Bitch. Luckily, he's taking it back now. Above all, we should not come to Mr Teeven, former Secretary of State of the VVD. But never does the Prime Minister talk about what matters, about the fact that the VVD is also there to serve the country and the rule of law, and that sometimes this means that as a politician you should not be in a department all the time, but take a step back. I would ask the Prime Minister to reflect on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u257	In all sincerity: there has been no interest in covering a receipt or an amount. I'm looking for the motive in this. What's the motive supposed to be? I really don't know. If you'd like to be angry and cover it up, it's always coming up. There is so much truth in the Netherlands. Then it'll come true. But why would you try? What could be the motive, whether it was 2 million or 5 million? Of course, 5 million is over 2 million. Can't it get out because it might be 5 million? It wasn't like that. It wasn't like that. As far as the cover is concerned, the Oosting Committee says quite clearly that Mr Van Brummen's research is an incomplete one. I must say that Mr Buma is absolutely right. That is why I also follow the conclusion of the Oosting Committee. That is why I say that it would have been better, for example, to re-examine whether we could find it, when in the autumn of last year and at the beginning of this year, it appeared that the matter was still going on and on and on and on and on and on and on. That's absolutely obvious. There was a lot of shit going around looking for that receipt. That turned out to be possible very quickly with a few simple interventions. So I understand very well that people say something will be covered up. I'm just looking for motive. Apart from the fact that it really isn't: what would the motive have been?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u258	The problem is the focus. That department's focus is on making chocolate cups in the newspapers. That was just said at the beginning. What do we need that department for? That's where we need to show that we're crime fighters. That's how the previous duo started. But it has gradually been forgotten that just now that department is the department where you have to follow the rules properly, that you do not have to praise everyone who makes tough statements, that these officials are not only in the way and that the political leadership should be much more careful with that. Hence my question to the Prime Minister. How does he look back in the light of what happened to naming those two MPs who were sitting there all over their ears? How is that possible? Doesn't he recognize that this was an error of assessment?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u259	First of all about the department: I fully agree with Mr Buma. If things go wrong, it is always the fault of the politicians and not of the civil servants. It is also unthinkable that as a politician, you blame an official for something outside. I am very opposed to that. You take responsibility for official mistakes that are made, if they are already made. Then you'll discuss how we'll prevent it next time. If the same official makes the same mistake over and over again, you can also talk about whether it is in the right place. But you always do that in the privacy of the room. I call that the Henk Kampdoctrine, on whose compass we sail at this point. I come specifically to the appointment of the two men. I found and felt that they were most suitable for this function because of their portfolio in the Chamber, their specific skills and knowledge and their ability to gain support for policy. See how Mr Dijkhoff is now taking up the very difficult issue of the refugee issue and manages to manage it in a sensible way in the Netherlands. That's why I think these were two good appointments.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u260	The Prime Minister says again: we have to take responsibility for officials' mistakes. I keep saying that the point is right here that Mr Opstelten, for example, has said that he should take responsibility for the mistakes in not finding the receipt, while he himself had already caused the receipt to be found not by failing to give a good commission to Mr Van Brummen. In short, the mistakes are political. Two people have been appointed who indeed have skills: making and changing press releases and shutting down a department. Yeah, they had those skills. But it was the political skills that belong to the chocolate head department and not the skills that belong to the state department.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u261	We have an extremely complex issue here today and a very heavy debate. I repeat my view of the administrative-political situation. By the way, Oosting says nowhere in his report that the assignment to Van Brummen was not good. He notes, however, that the way the investigation was conducted is inadequate. That is quite clear and I really do take care of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u262	Yesterday, the Chamber received answers to 250 parliamentary questions, written on almost 60 A4s. There was no mention of the Prime Minister's view in Mr Roes's memorandum, the Director-General, that there was talk of an amount of 4.8 million or 4.9 million guilders. So there is no mention of this in the whole answer to the 250 questions. Now we have a discussion report from the Prime Minister. He is so generous in making that available to the Chamber. We note from this that he has indeed seen that Mr Roes' report talks about 4,8 million or 4,9 million guilders. Why wasn't that answered directly in those 250 parliamentary questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u263	Because I show in the questions what my consideration was to follow the administrative advice in the timeout of the suspension and to go along with the view that it is a personal note. First of all, because of the time constraints, so I could not determine whether there were any personal policy ideas in the document. That is crucial, because otherwise I would put the official who drafted it in trouble. So there wasn't that time. That was the discussion in Mr Pechtold's speech at the beginning of my reply. Secondly, we have considered that we have already dealt with the piece once. It is not a new piece that pops up, because it was involved in the research of Van Brummen, as we know by now. Thirdly, it would be given to the committee. Looking back now, I would have preferred to ask the President to suspend for longer and to look at it longer, to determine whether there were any personal policy ideas in it. That was crucial to me: not what facts were in it, but whether or not the document was a personal note, and I would put an official involved in trouble by making it public.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u264	But that is not at the heart of the matter. At the heart of the matter is the answer to the 250 questions that have been asked. Then the Minister had enough time, a few days, to have that reminder sign up in the answer to the questions. Why didn't that happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u265	Because I explained in the questions why, in view of the time constraints, I went along with the policy officer's view that this is a personal note. In the meantime, now that I have had more time to look at it, I think it is actually just a discussion report that could have been sent to the Chamber with chairman Oosting of the committee. As I outlined in my answer, I didn't have that time in the break. So it was not about the facts that were in it, but about whether I would cause problems for an official. Obviously not because of the 4.8 million or 4.9 million, but because of what could not have been in the piece, for example some commentary on Bitches, because why was it a personal note? I couldn't read that because there wasn't time. Again, on another occasion, I will take that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u266	But that was no longer the issue at all, because this was the answer to 250 parliamentary questions, where the Minister was no longer bound at all by the fact that it was a note from an official with a few scribbles. No, everything was clear then and it was already published in Oosting's research. Then the Prime Minister and the Prime Minister were going to answer Parliamentary questions and he could very easily have written: yes, I saw that at the time. Why didn't he? That's my question, and that's what it's all about, but people don't fall for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u267	In all honesty, the parliamentary questions are about why I did not make the document public. I just answered that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u268	However, I have difficulty with the discrepancy, the difference between the sincere regrets and the feelings expressed by the Prime Minister in relation to what we have been through here for a year, with the stubbornness with which everyone who asked for or criticized was dismissed every time not only under the leadership of this Prime Minister, but also by the Prime Minister himself. He said: Every day I have contact with Opstelten, every day, full focus, day and night sits on it. Well, it turns out that wasn't true. He said that Opstelten had to leave only because of finding a receipt. Well, with Oosting and tonight we have established that there were ten reasons to send Opstelten away. About Bitches he said: he didn't have to leave at all, it was just Setups. Even on Friday, the Prime Minister says: we need people like Fred Teeven. That insight, that mea culpa, those excuses come very late when you see how many times the Prime Minister himself has had the chance to find out, correct things or go after them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u269	First about Fred Teeven. What I said on Friday is that I respect Fred Teeven as a crime fighter in his time as a prosecutor. I'm not talking about the Secretary of State Crimefighter label. Fred Teeven is a man who has done extremely complicated things with great personal risk to ensure that the worst criminals in the Netherlands could be caught. I'm not talking about this case, but in general, I really stand for that statement. I respect people like Fred Teeven, because we need them as the Netherlands. If you don't have it, you can't handle organized crime. That does not change this case, it does not alter the conclusions of Oosting, because I fully support them. That was my comment about Fred Teeven. It is wrong that I combined that remark about Fred Teeven Friday with what Oosting says on pag. 259: we do or do not know exactly what etc. With that I created the confusion as if I would not support Oosting, as if I knew more, as if I would suggest that there was still a consideration. That is not the case. I support Oosting, all his conclusions, without any nuance. Then to Ivo Opstellen. It's true that he and I had a lot of contact. The same applies now to Minister Van der Steur and I, and certainly also to Secretary of State Dijkhoff, because they are on important dossiers. What has my greatest attention as Prime Minister right now? That is the fight against terrorism, and I have a great deal of contact with Mr van der Steur, and that is the whole issue of migration, on which I have a great deal of contact with Mr Dijkhoff. Sometimes there are other themes that arise, such as COP21 in Paris. I'll be in touch with Mrs. Dijksma almost every day. Sometimes there are weeks when I don't speak to the Secretary of State for Infrastructure and the Environment. So it depends on which topics are high on the agenda. What I am blaming myself for is that I did not raise the subject of receipt and Cees H before and that I did not go into more detail myself with Ivo Opstelten to see if a second investigation should take place. There was too much trouble, too many facts kept popping up, there is too much unrest in the Chamber about whether it has all the data. Again, in all honesty, there is no motive. It's really not like we've been trying not to find things.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u270	Let's go back to what it's all about. The VVD runs this department. The VVD is also on taxes. There are millions of laundered. There's just money back, apartments, boats, jewelry. Nothing's been picked. There's just been a criminal made stinking rich through the D.A.'s accounts. That's what happened. I do not expect this more politically than the others, but the political colour under the leadership of the Prime Minister wants to stand out on these issues. That's what I'm talking about. Whatever I'm talking about, it's fine to stand in front of your people, but not to the nonsense, to the absurd, because that's what happened here. Again, the Prime Minister says: Bitch was a fantastic guy, also in his role as a prosecutor. But since 1998, he's made the only deal out of tax, which is just a money-laundering deal. The Prime Minister just said he was blessed. No, it was explicitly against the will of the state's attorney's office and the minister. He may be a fantastic family man, but he's done something terrible wrong. The Prime Minister may stand in front of his people, but he must also say: Stand up, come on, everyone saw that he no longer controlled the files, and Bitch has made a capital mistake.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u271	I would almost refer to it, but I am not going to do that to the secretary of the Committee of Inquiry who said last Saturday in a piece by Tom-Jan Meeus in the NRC that Teeven is not really that much to blame here. I don't know, and I'm gonna go to Oosting. What matters to me is that I am not defending Fred Teeven in the context of this report. What I'm doing is I'm saying that in a country like the Netherlands, we shouldn't be naive in his absolute creeps trying to enlighten the rule of law. Then you also need people who are at great personal risk to fight against it. That is a general remark about Fred Teeven, and I am really holding on to it. Besides, I'm not taking anything away from this report. If Mr Pechtold wants to hear from me now that, because of this report, I am putting Fred Teeven in the big trash, I am not going to do that. That's my only point. I don't make any nuances on this report. I support all conclusions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u272	It just can't be. There has been laundering, tax evasion and a deal has been made, which the Committee of Inquiry says cannot be done. There has been an out-of-control operation, a violation of the Minister's wishes, and the criminal has served half the years he was convicted of. The criminal has become stinking rich from money laundered by us, the government. Then you can't say that you're gonna continue to support that figure at the time, then officer, then Secretary of State, and now MP? Each time Mr. Bitch continues to suggest that there is more. The Oosting press conference was still going on, and yet again, Teeven had a judgment that nothing was going on and that there was not much to blame. That's what I'm talking about. I think the Prime Minister should distance himself from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u273	I do. I actually agree with Mr Pechtold's whole speech. I am just saying a few things not in contradiction with what Mr Pechtold says, but in addition to that. Firstly, the Oosting report criticises a great many people for what happened 15 years ago. That doesn't focus on one person, but on a lot of people. Secondly, I am in no way compromising what Oosting says, but I am not putting the District Attorney bitches who have made this country safe from the bulk of waste in all kinds of other cases at great personal risk. I'm not. We agree, but it's time to find the nuance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u274	Through this point we can also go to the Prime Minister's press conference last Friday. We don't weigh the motives of a former Secretary of State and of a former crime fighter as a state's attorney, and we don't weigh the personal and warm feelings towards someone. I'd like to give all of that to the Prime Minister. But what matters is facts and the assessment of the Oosting Committee. Then there was a prime minister who put on the smoking machine again and threw up fog. The Prime Minister often uses English words, but my question was what was he thinking at that time? What happened Friday when the Prime Minister said what he said?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u275	I just outlined that and it wasn't right. That's what I said. It's never wise, but I let a journalist seduce me in the heat of the moment. After I first found that I support the conclusion of Oosting, I also said that last Friday, when it was about that deal that was not good, I said that we do not know whether and what other achievement was achieved. That's stupid. It was my first press conference after the report came out. Except for RTL Late Night where many other topics were discussed, this was my first press conference, my first public appearance after the report came out. I have rightly been extensively questioned by journalists. I have thus given the impression that I would not support that conclusion, although I said in that press conference that I am doing so and that I know more, which is not the case. That's why I shouldn't have. But how does that work? Yeah, only human; I got carried away.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u276	This was not a slip of the tongue; this was the undermining of the Oosting report for 40 minutes, where he says that this is the final report, that they have examined everything and that they have heard the story of Vraking. Then there was a whole argument that there could be much more. Surely it doesn't inspire confidence when you say one minute that you endorse the conclusions, then undermine them and then say a few days later that it was stupid and that we're going to continue with Oosting again? That's not a trustworthy story, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u277	I also read back that press conference. Again, I'm not taking anything away from the mistake I made there. I recognize that as a matter of principle, but that press conference dealt with a great many more issues relating to the withdrawal. All sorts of things have been dealt with. I don't think I've said any unwise things there either. Part of the press conference is about this, really a part because not the whole press conference was about this and that part was not sensible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u278	Finally, Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u279	I reviewed the press conference again, and you will be questioned for minutes about whether you know anything else. In this context, there was even a painful question of confidence: can we simply believe what the Prime Minister says, namely that there was a version behind the version of Oosting? As a result, there was a fog and what does the Minister say about it? What does the Minister say about the truth, knowing the truth and wanting to know the truth? What does he say about the Easting Commission?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u280	Again, I agree with Oosting. I endorse the conclusions he draws on page 272. It was unwise that I brought what he wrote on page 259 to the press conference. In conjunction with the conclusions on page 272, that gave the impression that I would not support those conclusions and that I would know more. I repeat: that was unwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u281	I think you're done.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u282	There have been so many interruptions that I think I must have answered all the questions by now. Unless someone jumps up now, I've answered all the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u283	There is also a second term. This brings us to the end of the government's first term. I'll take a look around to see if there's any need for a short suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u284	A little more than short, 45 minutes, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u285	I see everyone nodding yes. I'm suspending the meeting for 45 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u286	I will reopen the sitting for a very brief statement: I have been asked to extend the suspension until 10 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u287	We shall continue with the debate on the report of the Oosting Committee. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Segers. He's not here yet. Probably on his way. We'll wait until he gets here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u288	Madam President. The Prime Minister went through the dust tonight. Both new rulers have preceded him in this. Before that there was the report from the Oosting Committee. That was published last week. The report is in its conclusions very hard. The Chamber has been misinformed. The Chamber is incompletely informed. The deal, what it was all about, shouldn't have been closed. He did not do good, neither to purpose, nor to purpose, nor to its effect and procedure. For many years, the information that could have clarified more about this has not come to the table. She has just remained hidden and therefore not sent to the Chamber. In the first period, I began to outline the importance of the democratic rule of law: it must be possible to assume that power can be controlled, that justice is in its way. Especially in circumstances where you make deals with criminals, it comes down to it. The Prime Minister and both other rulers have dealt with these mistakes and have apologized on many points and promised to get well where it can be done better. But the doubt has remained. It's hard for me. However, under these circumstances, I see no other option than to submit the next motion to the Chamber. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[taking note of the conclusions of the report of the Oosting Committee;]] [[rejects the policy pursued under the responsibility of the Prime Minister,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Segers, Mr Roemer, Mr Van Haersma Buma, Mr Pechtold, Mr Wilders, Mr Klaver, Mr Krol and Mr Thieme.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34362-7]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u289	Mr. Chairman. We have had a debate today in which the cabinet has been given the opportunity to make a fresh start in restoring confidence in the rule of law and in politics, after government officials have damaged it for a long time. After the answer given by the cabinet, I can only conclude that it did not succeed in that task. Too much has gone wrong, too much has gone around the truth and it has taken too long before a start has been made to get the truth out. We have not seen enough of the leadership to restore the damaged trust today. That is why the SP Group has co-signed the motion of censure that Mr Segers has just tabled. As far as the SP Group is concerned, there was not a single word of Spanish.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u290	Madam President. We have spoken intensively today in response to the report by the Oosting Committee. At the end of this long day, there is a disenchanting image. The Ministry of Security and Justice should be the guardian of the rule of law. From that point of view, that department should be run, but in reality it is run like a VVD party office. It was mainly intended to produce chocolate letters in the newspapers. Everything that stood in the way of that image had to give way. Officials got the blackbird, Minister Schippers saw conspiracy everywhere and press releases were even rewritten by MPs. All this happened under the eyes of the Prime Minister. He stood there, watched it and let it happen. He led this VVD campaign, when he should have defended the rule of law. Today, the Chamber must draw a line. We do not want this country to be governed, and we do not want it to be governed by the rule of law. That line draws Mr Segers' motion. That is why the CDA supports this motion of censure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u291	Madam President. Top criminal and drug dealer Cees H. got 4.7 million, pardon and reduction from Fred Teeven. He got his freedom back. Henk and Ingrid who break the law in some way get a fine. If they don't pay them, they'll be held hostage and lose their freedom. The Netherlands does not understand such a policy. The Netherlands does not want such a policy either. The fact that the facts have been ignored for years, which has been cheated, cheated, lied and deceived, is not only the bankruptcy of the rule of law, but also the bankruptcy of politics. Minister Van der Steur and Secretary of State Dijkhoff have simply contributed to a press release that made the truth very gently, I say, violence. What it said didn't add up. They have also left the Chamber in the dark about the figures we wanted, what we asked for and what they knew and heard. It is unforgivable that they have kept that under their hat. The same is true of the Prime Minister. He made all this happen. He also did not do his best to ask about the facts, while there was every reason to do so. He used excuses about lyrics. He'd seen them, but he didn't read them. Later he had seen a number with an angry eye, but he kept it from him. The Prime Minister also continues to support the Secretary of State of those millions to the criminals. If a Prime Minister has failed once, if a policy has to be rejected, then it is now. My name, on behalf of the PVV Group, is therefore under the motion of censure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u292	I also heard Mr Wilders' first-time contribution, as well as the discussion we had earlier. On several occasions he has indicated that he has no confidence in this cabinet, in the Prime Minister, in the Secretary of State for Security and Justice and in the Minister for Security and Justice. How am I supposed to judge this motion of censure? Is it a kind of weak broth of the mistrust that Mr Wilders has expressed?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u293	I believe that the motion tabled by Mr Segers, with the exception of the SGP signed by the entire opposition in this House, which condemns the policy of this Prime Minister, who is the Prime Minister of the whole cabinet, can be described as anything but a lame motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u294	As part of the opposition, I naturally wonder how I should interpret this motion. Should it indeed be seen as a motion of censure against this cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u295	You must indicate the motion as it stands: a motion of censure on the policy pursued by this Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u296	Mr. Chairman. It was a heated debate. In my first term, I asked the Prime Minister what lessons he had learned. The Prime Minister was clear: he should have directed earlier, he should have communicated more purely and he should have shared better information. I very much appreciate that the rulers have said in different terms that there have been major mistakes in the handling of the Bitch Deal. The recognition that major mistakes have been made is of great importance to my group. I like to underline that. My group has co-signed Mr Segers' motion. As the Prime Minister himself clearly rejects the policy pursued, I assume he recognizes himself in this motion. I'm counting on it, I'll tell the Cabinet, that this was never again. Some classes come with bruises.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u297	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Prime Minister and both heads of security and justice for their reply. The Prime Minister spoke of a very heavy debate and it was. This debate, too, unfortunately again illustrated how careless the Rutte cabinet has dealt with the foundations of our rule of law and our democracy. My group appreciates the apologies of the Prime Minister and of both other leaders. However, these excuses cannot undo the damage that has been caused. Damages occur under the direction of the Prime Minister. Damage to political culture, the rule of law, democracy and most importantly, damage to society's confidence in politics. It is not easy for me, but I have therefore co-signed Mr Segers' motion, a motion that condemns the policy pursued in relation to the Temple Deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u298	I shall now turn to Mr Klein.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u299	We can be very excited, but it's about a very serious matter. I'd like to know what's going on under state law. What do we do if there's a motion of censure? Since it is precisely Mr Pechtold's constitutional conscience that is at stake, I would like to know how to refer to this motion so that I can coordinate my voting on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u300	The motion speaks for itself. If you want to know what a motion of censure means, look at Wikipedia. It's very clear. The policy pursued is rejected. It is then up to the cabinet how, if the motion is adopted, that ruling of the Chamber is dealt with and how it is dealt with if it is not adopted.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u301	That's quite right. In this respect, I can endorse what Mr Pechtold says. I would just like to hear from Mr Pechtold what purpose he is aiming for, other than rejecting the policy pursued.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u302	I do not know which nails Mr Klein is looking for on which water. We've been doing a lot of truth-finding over the past year and a half. We've handled a solid report here. We've had a tough debate. We heard an apology. Nevertheless, my group has taken into account the total of what has happened over the past period, even after the presentation of the report and the comments on it, in our opinion. This has led to the rejection of the policy pursued under the direction of the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u303	Madam President. I would like to thank the rulers for their reply. They have acknowledged that there have been serious errors and shortcomings in a number of important areas. Indeed, a lot has gone wrong. The 2000 deal is flawed in its creation, content and settlement. When the discussion on the deal started, the cabinet did not respond adequately. There was insufficient awareness of problems, inadequate direction and inadequate research. This led to incomplete and incorrect information in the Chamber. The active intelligence obligation of Article 68 of the Constitution has thus been violated. The direction led by the Prime Minister was then inadequate, as he himself indicated. Furthermore, it can also be charged to the cabinet that the active members of the coalition have been too closely involved in this issue, which also called into question the controlling role of the Chamber. All this leads my group to support the motion of censure. My group sees this motion itself as a classic motion of censure. For us, in this particular case, it is not a question of trust, because earlier this year, on the very subject of inadequate information to the Chamber, leaders of Security and Justice have already left.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u304	Mr. Chairman. Fungality. Keeping things under wraps. Lack of information and transparency. They are structural problems of Rutte II. You'll see it back at the MH17. You can see it in the debate on Volkert van der Graaf. You can see it in the post-taxation of the EU. And you'll see it again tonight on this deal with Cees H. That's why we support the motion of censure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u305	Mr. Chairman. I thank the rulers for their clear, honest and open response. A lot's gone wrong. That is what I noticed in the first period, and that has also emerged clearly from the debate this evening. Many have said that the functioning of the rule of law requires compliance with rules. In the first period, I said that it was clear that the end of the 1990s and the beginning of the century were unconventional. Political responsibility has been taken for the way things have gone with Nieuwsuur broadcasting in 2014 and 2015. I still have the impression that I described in the first term: it was mainly a situation in which people did not know what was going on. In my opinion, the current rulers on V and J also clearly indicated that it was also apparent that the amount could have been found much faster if requested. That is why I now note that it is right that the political consequences have been drawn. But a rule of law requires not only respect for rules, but also for the treatment of criminals. As in the first term, I would like to stress that this approach of criminals has, in my firm belief, always been the intention of those who have acted on it. Nevertheless, we can only conclude that the Oosting Committee has drawn the right conclusions. We support them, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u306	Mr. Chairman. The Oosting Committee drew sharp conclusions on what happened around the Teeven Deal until the date of the resignation of both regiments in response to the disclosure of the Teeven Deal. The Oosting Committee makes no mistake about it: the reason for the resignation of both members of the government was many things, so it was justified and therefore rightly taken into account at that time. After that, questions remained and my group remained critical. We put these questions to the directors and to the Prime Minister in the first term. My group thanks the directors for their answers and notes that they have generously indicated that those who recognise mistakes where mistakes have been made also acknowledge those mistakes, who regret them and then promise to improve them for the future. That is relevant as far as my group is concerned. Much remains to be done, in the near and perhaps even longer future. For many years, as a parliament and as a cabinet, we will continue to work to strengthen and improve the rule of law. In doing so, mistakes will continue to be made, especially when it comes to difficult issues such as deals with criminals. There is always the duty of the cabinet to learn from this and the duty of the parliament to monitor it. We have done so in recent years, with this debate as a temporary intermediate station. There will be debates. As far as my group is concerned, this debate ends in the observation that this cabinet learns from its mistakes and wants to work on them for the future, and that is what is important.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u307	Mr. Chairman. For us, the key question of this debate was whether it would improve the confidence in politics, confidence in our institutions and hence the trust in the democratic rule of law of our citizens. Trust comes on foot and goes on horseback. The Prime Minister and the Minister and the Secretary of State for Security and Justice went through the dust today. However, it still bothers us that the Prime Minister makes an illogical cut between what he thinks of Teeven's actions in the time he reached a settlement with a criminal, who the Oosting Committee has stated quite clearly that that was simply wrong, and his opinion that the Netherlands needs people like Fred Teeven. As far as we are concerned, the Netherlands does not need people who violate the democratic rule of law, even if it is to fight crime. The Netherlands does not need people who withhold information because they can get into trouble. The Netherlands needs leaders who can break the culture of deception. In order to send a signal, we will support the motion of censure today.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u308	Mr. Chairman. For months the three rulers have been trained, denied and evasively done, and now the three rulers suddenly crawl through the dust in the hope that that will be done. Why couldn't we do that sooner? After all, governance is forward-looking. Why did the Prime Minister, why did the three VVD executives, why did the entire VVD choose this course of action? What's behind this? It's still a ghost game. Does the cabinet believe that it can be credible by ruling now almost the entire opposition, including tolerant parties, has so clearly renounced the conduct of these rulers? This cabinet knows that a majority of voters think it has been ruled out, according to Maurice de Hond's research. What does the Cabinet do with that given? 50PLUS is in any case convinced co-signatory of the motion-Segers c.s.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u309	Mr. Chairman. It is clear that the Oosting Committee has made a lot of sense and made a lot of sense. The reply of the cabinet has also made it very clear how things have turned out. It also included the recognition of what has gone wrong and how we should deal with it in the future. Mr Pechtold has just replied to my question on the interpretation of the motion. I'm just waiting for the cabinet's response to that. That seems to me to be the logical thing. What I find an uncomfortable state-law point, which we do not need to go any further, is that Members of Parliament judge the functioning of Members of Parliament in an old situation. That is a strange situation because it actually says that former chamber members are suddenly subject to discussion by the present Members of Parliament for what they have done in the past. We shouldn't be doing that. I'm just waiting for the cabinet's reaction in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u310	I see the Prime Minister can respond immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u311	Madam President. In this debate, the cabinet has unreservedly acknowledged that the process of truth finding in respect of withdrawal could have been better and should have been better. The cabinet has learnt lessons from this and explained them in detail in this debate. However, at no time has there been a policy aimed at not getting all the facts out of hand. I say that to your honor and conscience. I'm dissuading the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u312	This brings us to the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u313	I'm suspending the meeting for five minutes. We shall then vote on the motion tabled.
