ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-eerstekamer-6.u1	I would like to welcome the initiators, Mrs Voortman and Mr Heerma, to the Upper House. I have already welcomed the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-eerstekamer-6.u2	Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing Mr Voortman and Mr Heerma's own-initiative proposal. Our group is always very much in favour of the hard work that needs to be done in order to bring an initiative proposal to law. This appreciation is always independent of the content of the proposal. This appreciation also applies to the first initiators, Mrs. Van Gent and Mr. Van Hijum always mentioned by the chairman Van Hiem, but it is the same person who started the work in September 2011. So there hasn't been ice cream in one night. The aim of the proposers is to encourage workers to work more flexibly and also to work more at home. In this way, the proposers want to achieve two things. Women, who work part-time in the Netherlands, should make more hours. An interesting question would be how much trouble it took the CDA to convince GroenLinks of this thought. Of course, this is also the reverse. This may help to solve the labour market problem of ageing populations in the long term. I would like to know from the Minister how he assesses the positive effects of this bill on this point. It will also make it easier for all workers to combine work and care better. This is particularly important for young families, but also for carers, for example for the elderly. We wholeheartedly endorse both objectives. The proper functioning of families is vital for the whole of society. In this context, as a relatively older person, I thought involuntarily of the father of the second author, Enneus Heerma. During the 1994 General Political Reviews, the former CDA leader in the Lower House asked for more attention to be paid to the role of the family in society. His call did not fall into good ground then, to put it mildly. Many did not even want to talk about the concept of "family" at the time and the CDA was accused of wanting to send the woman back to the counter. My attempt to modernise the definition of "family" even reached the popular Loesje at the time. Once in my life I appeared on a pamphlet by Loesje with the following definition of the family: for the CDA is also a single person with a goldfish a family. In this light, I very much appreciate that this proposal by CDA and GroenLinks is now being widely supported in the House of Representatives. The only question raised by our group was why, in relation to a part of industrial relations, legislation was chosen and not a form of Seelen massage of the social partners. The applicants have put forward two arguments in this regard. The first argument is that the law aims to encourage the collective bargaining parties to better address this issue. Will the proposers themselves also make a contribution to this in the future? In this light, these members were somewhat surprised to read, in response to questions from the Christian Union, that the authors of this law, at least recently, did not consult the social partners. Can the proposers explain why this didn't happen? The second argument is that, in the negotiation process, workers can use a little support. The reasoning of a little support has also been used by our group in the Jobs Agreement Act and in the quota of labour restrictions. The target group of that law could and could indeed use a push in the back. Can the proposers explain why this would also be the case for all workers at the moment? The Council of State has pointed out that, in the long term, the position of workers in the labour market could become stronger. Of course, this should not apply to all occupational groups and income groups, as Mrs Sent of the PvdA has already stated in the report. We await the answer to our questions with interest. And of course listen carefully to the answers to the questions of others.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-eerstekamer-6.u3	Mr. Chairman. I will be very brief today. First of all, I would like to congratulate the House of Representatives, Mrs Voortman and Mr Heerma, on the defence in this Chamber of the legislative proposal that was still an initiative of their party members Van Gent and Van Hijum. Not every initiative bill goes this far. A majority of the initiative legislative proposals remain on the shelf somewhere during the journey. And less than a quarter make it to the finish line as a law. Last year, the State's current investigation into proposals since 2000 showed that this was in line with an earlier investigation by the Council of State in 2011 over a longer period of time. If this initiative is accepted here and then appears in the Official Journal, the initiators belong to a select group that may write a law in its name. A nice encouragement to continue seems to me, even if there are some bumps to be made here first. 'Cause legal treatment in this room can be a little tricky sometimes. A good basis for support in the Lower House does not automatically mean support in the Senate, because the balance of power here is different, but also because sometimes other considerations apply here. For example, three initiatives by MPs have been stranded in this Chamber over the past three years. In any event, the proposal before us will not be a matter for the SP Group. The Group of the Party of European Socialists is afraid that the labour market will become more flexible. However, this draft law on flexible working provides more rights for employees, more freedom of regulation to adapt working hours and workshops to the possibilities and preferences, so that the work in the existing contract can be made more appropriate and remain appropriate in changing circumstances, at home in the family or anywhere else. Hopefully more people will be able to keep a fixed contract along this path, because that's what the SCP research shows again, which is by far the majority of people. I thank the initiators for answering my questions in the reply and note that they also see the risks of a culture of more flexible working hours and a trend of more and more home working. The initiators also acknowledge that mixing between work and private can take place when the employee's request for homework comes. But they also point out that in this legislative proposal the employee has the right to ask for flexibility in terms of working time and the workplace and can take the risks involved and, hopefully, can and will assess them correctly. In the view of my group, this proposal strengthens the position of the worker and rather avoids the negative effects on the legal position which are often associated with laxisation. The SP Group can therefore fully support the initiators' proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-eerstekamer-6.u4	Madam President. Firstly, I would like to express my appreciation for the persistence of the proposers to make adjustments in the area of flexibility in industrial relations. The fact that we do not agree on the way in which I am valued does not affect my appreciation. On 8 February 2000, I gave my maiden speech in this room on the Working Time Act, a bill from the then D66 Secretary of State Mrs Verstand in Purple II. I would like to thank the authors for giving me the opportunity to discuss a change to this Act more than 15 years later in the final stage of my career in the Senate. The circle is round, it is said. The VVD Group voted against the law at that time, despite being a government party, because it felt that flexibility had to come from one side, namely that of the employer. Flexibility is what I mean by having more variation or choice in the demand for or supply of labour than before. For the employee, the flexibility with the Adjusting Working Time Act has increased if he takes the initiative to request adjustment. This was true and does not apply to the employer in his demand for work. He can only respond to employee requests. This was the case at the time for the adjustment of working time and in the present legislative proposal for the adaptation of working time and the workplace. On the basis of this law, the employer does not or does not have the right to ask the employee to work flexibly if this is necessary for the operation of the company. Following a question during the written procedure, the applicants replied that they were right to do so, because flexible work should not lead to excessive work and private mixing. But mixing of work and private can also take place as a result of a request from the employee himself. However, the initiators expect workers to consider this before submitting a request. The expectations of the initiators do not need to lead to another, in my group's view, more realistic view of the workers. No greater mix between work and private than going home to work. At present, working independently does not necessarily mean working at home, but when it comes to work and private work or to combining work and care, it will mean working at home. Or are the proposers of a different opinion? Now it is "a right to ask and a duty to consider" that works independently of the place. There are no grounds for rejection in the bill. That means that every ground is a ground for rejection. Do the proposers agree with this? If so, is this not unnecessary regulation? Another objection at the time was that the law actually had an emancipatory purpose, namely to facilitate the combination of work and private life, where the government's assumption and intention at that time was that women would work more and men would worry more. During the parliamentary process, these objectives disappeared behind the horizon because the legislator did not want subjective elements in the law and did not know how to weigh personal motives of employees against the employer's heavy-weight business interests. In the words of the Secretary of State at that time during the examination in the Lower House: "the purpose of the Work Time Adjustment Act is to create a right regardless of the employee's motives. The business interests are objective." The examples that are now mentioned in the legislative proposal are also in the sphere of work and care, now including family care. "As far as the initiators are concerned, the present legislative proposal is primarily concerned with the employee's interest in combining work and private life in a relaxed manner," they replied in response to questions from the Christian Union in this Chamber. Are the applicants in agreement with the VVD Group that workers may or may submit a written request for adaptation not only of working time, as this was already the case, but also of working time and/or working time? work and therefore there does not need to be a combination of work and care at all? How do they see this in the context of a balanced balance of interests between the employee and the employer? The deadline for an employee to be employed to make a request is reduced from one year to six months in this legislative proposal. The time limit for submitting an application shall be reduced from four months to two months. This means that an employee can make an application for adjustment eight months after taking up his duties. How do the applicants view this in the context of the obligation-based principle that agreements must be complied with? The agreement, still the basis of an agreement, is of very short duration here. Has the employee made the right assessment when accepting the job if he can ask for a change in the working time, working time and/or workshop so shortly thereafter? In conclusion, my group believes that legislation in this area is not the right solution, but that it is necessary to be tailored. The type of work but also people differ too much. Working at home and taking care of your old mother or your young children at the same time is not a realistic option, at least not with a full-time job. That is the problem: the law is too general, the possible situations are too different. We would like to hear from the authors how they see this and look forward to answering our questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-eerstekamer-6.u5	I have one more question for Mrs Knippers. It raises an objection that the bill is too generalistic, whereas it should be about customisation. Does it not recognise that this bill primarily encourages or forces the parties to deliver tailor-made work? This legislative proposal gives workers the opportunity to request, adjust their working hours and possibly also to work at home. Together with the employer, the most appropriate solution will be considered. That is actually not generalisation, but rather search for customization and encourage both parties to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-eerstekamer-6.u6	I do not think that this bill is necessary, as I mentioned earlier, also in the written questions. There is also such a thing as good employership, and moreover good employeeship, and I think that every employer will enter into a conversation if requested. If employers do not want them to be there, of course, they will not do so if this bill is there, I am afraid.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-eerstekamer-6.u7	However, this bill forces them more seriously to respond to the request and to state whether it can or cannot and to talk about a proposal that suits both parties. You said they'd do it anyway. But do you not admit that this is a little support for workers when it comes to employers who are not doing this so easily?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-eerstekamer-6.u8	I don't think so. If you know from your employer that he is not open to that, that it is difficult to ask him such a thing, then it remains so, even with this bill in hand. If he doesn't, you're gonna have to do something else. As far as the justification is concerned, I have just said about the workplace that any justification, however miserable, is a justification, because there are no grounds for rejection. As for other things, I think: if you want to find a motive, you always find it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-eerstekamer-6.u9	Finally, Mrs Strik.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-eerstekamer-6.u10	That's an error of assessment of the effects. I would just like to point out that every review of the Working Time Act had the conclusion that it led to a cultural change. Employers were more willing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-eerstekamer-6.u11	I've been looking at the 2004 evaluation. I do not know what evaluation you have looked at, but on that basis my first observation was that working time is hardly being brought forward on the basis of the Adaptation Act and that it is almost always being taken on the basis of Article 611. I understand that, too. The Working Conditions Act also lays down a number of conditions, namely four months in advance, soon it will be that two months will be required to submit a request and have been in service for a year, while all these conditions will not apply if you simply go with a request to your employer, regardless of the Work Time Adjustment Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-eerstekamer-6.u12	We disagree on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-eerstekamer-6.u13	Mrs. Strik, this is what you have to do. You can go into this in more detail in your second term. Can I ask both of you to debate through the chairman from now on?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-eerstekamer-6.u14	Excuse me. Excuse me. I can't believe I'm gonna forget that after 15 years!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-eerstekamer-6.u15	Then it is nice that I can teach you this at the last minute! I give the floor to Mr Backer, who is already ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-eerstekamer-6.u16	Of course, Mr President, there is no time to lose, even during Easter days of course. Our family has the advantage that there is no goldfish to take care of, Mr Terpstra, otherwise... Mr. Chairman. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats in the European Parliament will also have a positive reaction from the initiators today, although I have a few critical comments to make. Any intervention by the legislator in the employer-employee relationship raises questions of a practical and theoretical nature. Recently we have dealt with the Work and Security Act, the Minister's opus magnum present here. It focuses on what employer and employee can expect from each other at the end of their employment. This relationship is not a peaceful property, as is shown by this initiative law. Here, in my words, an attempt is being made to further fill in the good employership, during the duration of the contract of employment. There is a precedent, Mr Knippers has already referred to it. In the Working Time Adjustment Act we are the station that would create that possibility actually passed before. In 2000, we had the Labour and Care Act. The proposal was submitted during the Kok II cabinet. The fact that there is modernisation after 15 years is not surprising, given the changes in the labour market. It is perhaps remarkable that the proposal has taken four years to get here. Anyway, there are other legislative priorities. It did ensure that the Labour and Care Act was passed as a hammerpiece here on 14 December 2014 and is therefore more quickly a fact. In retrospect, it might have made sense to discuss them together. I have another question about this. Article IA takes into account an earlier entry into force of the legislative proposal 32855. Then the text of this law changes. I need some explanation to understand what the consolidated text of Articles 2a and 2b is. I read that there is also a 'exceptional unforeseen circumstances'. Actually, I'm not very good at where that came from. I'd like an explanation. I would also like to receive the final text for the votes. The essence of the story is: you will not ignore my request for reduction or increase, employer. The debate between the worker and the employer in working life could be better conducted under the influence of this proposal. There is a waiting period of 26 weeks. Also, the frequency is limited. I do have a question about that waiting time. Article 1 provides for an interruption of three months for the addition of contracts. But in the Work and Security Act, that turned out to be six months. See Article 6.6.7 (4). Maybe it doesn't have anything to do with that, but I think that's what this is about. What is the Minister's view on this? Shouldn't this be straightened out? I am referring to Article 2 (1). The debate is also about the mutual solidarity of a working community. What can we expect from each other? I do read limited grounds for rejection, but there is no real reason why both the employer and the employee should take account, even in the case of an undertaking with more than ten employees, of the relationship between them. The change in more or less hours, another location or otherwise spread. These are the broadenings proposed in the bill.... can of course be resolved in a modern flexible organisation. In a sales organisation nowadays one is hardly in the office and there is no clocking either. Homeworkers often make more hours. However, this is more complex in a production environment with a shiftwork. At the heart of the proposal is "you will not ignore my question." There are a number of normative prescribed answers. There is also a sanction: anyone who does not speak up agrees. Now the rejections are different. I don't think the legal text is optimal here. I did a little checking, and in 2000 that was also a point of discussion. Maybe there was a way to tighten it up a little bit. For example, would it not have been easier to simply take the standards of reasonableness and fairness instead of introducing two different standards in the case of requests for reduction and for hour distribution? I think it is right that a different measure has been taken in the event of an increase. That was already stated in the Working Time Act. But I do have a question of principle in Article 2 (10). There are other grounds for discussion, but in an employment relationship there is still the element of subjugation, which is nevertheless a characteristic of the contract of employment according to the Civil Code. So law-systematic is a bit of a wringer. Now organisations are less and less hierarchical, but I still think it is a point. The employer's discretion not to honour a request is greater here, in Article 2 (10). But I would like confirmation from the initiators that this is really a broader ground. Is there any case law on this? I didn't find it. Has it been discussed in the evaluation? Has there been more debate on a request for an increase? How else did it happen? Our country is champion of part-time jobs in the EU. This also has to do with lack of flexibility. It is perhaps, as Mr Kneppers said, the question of how much this legislation is going to contribute to this. However, my group considers any improvement to be one. This proposal may be a small step in the right direction, but a few things still need to be clarified. If that succeeds, I can give a positive advice to my group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-eerstekamer-6.u17	Mr. Chairman. Work ensures independence, contributes to self-esteem and contributes to the economy as well as to social cohesion. In doing so, workers have a strong need for opportunities to adapt their working hours, working hours and workplaces flexibly. The present initiative proposal gives workers the right to request it. The PvdA is grateful to the initiators that it makes it easier for people who want to work to do so. We are also grateful to the initiators and the Minister for their answers to the questions we have put to them as part of the written examination of the present initiative proposal. We would like to take this opportunity to put a small number of remaining questions to them. I would like to present to the initiators two potentially unintended consequences of the present initiative proposal. The first concerns the observation that the Juridisation of the WFW could in the short term constitute an obstacle to the hiring of staff, in particular women with young children. In fact, they may be more likely to invoke the right to request adjustments to working hours, working hours and workplaces. As long as flexible working is not an obvious subject of discussion and before the cultural change is made, it may be that the WFW hinders the adoption of groups that are expected to make more frequent requests, including not only women but also family carers and single parent families in general. The initiators do not share this concern in the reply. My group will be pleased to receive further support for this. The second concerns the observation that not all requests for changes in working hours, working hours and workplaces will be met. After all, not all appointments can be filled in flexibly. It could now be the case that, in particular, the possibilities of lower-skilled workers to work flexibly are not extended by means of the present initiative proposal. And then there could be an increase in inequality in the labour market as a result of the present initiative proposal. The initiators are rather quick to dismiss this concern in the response, but the PvdA is happy to receive a further justification for this. One more question for the Minister. The present initiative proposal can make an important contribution to breaking the so-called part-time clamp. In other words, because most women work part-time, there is no need to adapt public services such as schools, childcare and leave arrangements. But on the other hand, school hours prevent mothers, for example, from working more hours. We hope that more flexible practices and tax concessions will help to break this deadlock. What is the Minister doing to improve public services so that women are not hindered from working, we are pleased to hear. And what other intentions does he have in this area? I'm rounding up. My group believes that the present initiative proposal could be an important step towards the cultural change needed to ensure that everyone who can work also contributes to capacity. At the same time, we have drawn attention to possible unintended consequences and see opportunities for possible further steps. We are therefore looking forward to the answers of the initiators and the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-eerstekamer-6.u18	Mr. Chairman. By the way, the submission of the present initiative proposal by MPs other than those present here in September 2011 is almost four years behind us. It is now acting as an episode of Other Times: a political eternity ago. This immediately raises the question of whether the guiding idea is still current and whether the sustainability period of the proposal has long been exceeded. In that case, it is still at most to be classified as a beautiful view of the past. The two initiators undoubtedly drew the best of their intentions from the policy advice of the ESC of April 2011 under the name Tijden van Societe. It outlines the part-time paradox to deal with time bottlenecks in work and care through a low part-time factor/too much part-time work. A smarter organisation of time and place of work should be the solution. This would also respond in good time to the major problem of a foreseeable structural shortage of labour. The backward emancipation of part-time women to full-time workers would ideally be completed and thus the economic autonomy of women. An end to the dominant pattern of the one-and-a-half earner and a beginning of a new era in which the man consciously takes on the care tasks that have been released through the necessary cultural change. The question of whether this would require legislation was raised at the time. Nut and necessity were not obvious in advance. For example, it has already been pointed out that flexible work in terms of time and place was already included in 80% of collective agreements, as well as the Working Time Act already provided opportunities. The fact remains that, for unclear reasons, concretisation was always left behind. A real analysis on this point was lacking, regardless of whether the proposed three-quarters mandatory law would contribute to this. The fact that not all sectors could be opened up to the desired flexible work was also given little attention, as was the possible disadvantages and greater responsibility of the employee himself. The ideal of what is now called The New Works was also promoted rosy with the optimistic assumption of half a million requests per year, obviously against the background of an ingrowth model in which the supposed structural deficits would almost certainly manifest themselves. How different did it turn out? Good intentions broke down on the current reality, even before the law became a reality. Not only have the opportunities for more work declined considerably, as high unemployment has shown, but it has also to be noted that the labour market has now been transformed into a virtually fluctuating form of flexibilisation. The temporary contract has become the new reality and a temporary job is the most feasible. In addition, the disadvantages of Het Nieuwe Werken have now been able to reveal themselves. That in turn is the benefit of delayed treatment now. The exaggerated expectations of that time can be adjusted. Research carried out by TNO and the University of Groningen, among others, shows that productivity in working at home is falling, while the bonding and loyalty with the company is also decreasing. Depending on the structural needs, flexible work can be counterproductive due to social isolation, difficult separation of work and private etc. It may also harm organisations themselves who, faced with six-monthly requests, will hire staff on a different basis. Job insecurity, which is already high after the introduction of the Work and Security Act, will thus only increase. In short, the advantages of flexible work once invoked have been given a clear shadowy side and lost their relevance. My group believes that, where the present legislative proposal already had obvious disadvantages and was based on a future of labour shortages, this picture has only been further confirmed after four years. As far as the ground has come, it can be found that the hype of The New Works is on its way back or even completely over. The legislative proposal is flexible working for a past time and thus de facto obsolete. My group would like to hear the further reaction of the two authors.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-eerstekamer-6.u19	I have a very practical question, also for the Acts, because I have not been able to see the text. Mr Kok refers to two investigations, one of TNO's research and another...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-eerstekamer-6.u20	... from the University of Groningen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-eerstekamer-6.u21	I'm interested in finding places. That's all I'm asking.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-eerstekamer-6.u22	I can probably figure that out afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-eerstekamer-6.u23	Maybe you'll have the answer in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-eerstekamer-6.u24	Yeah, possibly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-eerstekamer-6.u25	Okay. Thank you. I call Mrs Strik.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-eerstekamer-6.u26	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate the initiators of this bill, Mrs Van Gent and Mr Van Hijum, and of course their successors Mrs Voortman and Mr Heerma, on their legislative proposal and on their broad acceptance in the House of Representatives. I have good hopes for a positive outcome to this legislative process. I know my colleagues as positive criticism, but also as politicians who have an eye for people's need to shape as well as possible the various tasks in their lives, as employees, as parents, as caregivers. This bill represents an important support for these people. With this effect, the bill combines several objectives of my party: on the one hand, people can shape their lives as they wish, and on the other hand, they can take on several roles if they wish. Their negotiating position towards their employer is becoming stronger, making it easier for them to direct themselves. On the other hand, this greater flexibility for workers can also have a positive effect on the workplace. Good agreements on the way in which work is done will lead to greater satisfaction of workers, which will only increase motivation. Another effect may be that more people work at home, so that travel time and travel costs, but also the pressure on commuter traffic and office spaces decrease. The proposal also meets our objective of better reconciling care tasks with paid employment. With the reforms in long-term care, this cabinet has greatly increased the pressure on the personal environment of chronically ill people. With a one-sided interpretation of the concept of "participant society" and the resulting cuts, care is at risk of becoming a lock-off at the expense of both the care-needed and the close-up between the employer and his care-taker. On the other hand, this legislative proposal takes a positive approach: it allows workers to make an independent choice to assume other responsibilities in addition to their work. They can perform these without being ground between the various duties and tasks. This will undoubtedly reduce the pressure on women, making them less often forced to give up their jobs or to work less hours because the combination of care/work is simply not feasible. My group attaches great importance to greater and, above all, more full participation of women in the labour market, and we see an ally in this legislative proposal. But my group also calls on the government to step up its efforts to improve this employment rate. The reckless one-and-a-half-year-old model is still too often cutting back on women's career opportunities and economic independence. In this context, the Minister lists a number of instruments in the reply, but it remains a fact that the Netherlands is particularly lagging behind countries such as Sweden and Denmark where women have a more equal position in the labour market. This is difficult to separate from the responsibility of the government in childcare and services such as large schools. Does the Minister recognise this, and can he respond to the ambitions of this cabinet to promote the participation of women with a stronger responsibility in this area? In addition, my party and my group strongly support a more equal distribution of care tasks. This bill will also make it easier for men to integrate more flexibility into their work, and thus to invest more in caring for children, parents or other relatives with a need for care. Of course, this freedom of choice must not be at the expense of the quality of the work or the business interest of the employer. But you won't. This proposal is balanced because it extends the rights of workers, but also because it takes into account the position and considerations of employers. The employer may reject the application on the basis of a number of criteria set out in the law. But even then, the proposal forces the employer at least to take a request or need of an employee seriously and to thoroughly examine whether it is possible to honour it. The employer will have to answer for a refusal. The system ensures that the need for this flexibility is settled in good consultation, taking into account both parties. Of course, in addition to this proposal, we also need other extensions to give people more direction over their lives. Think of leave arrangements and working hours. The proposals for this have recently been widely accepted in this Chamber. However, in terms of flexible and site-independent work, this initiative proposal provides for a gap that does not seem to be filled otherwise. Sometimes you don't need less hours, but a more flexible use of those hours. As early as 2010, the Task Force Part TimePlus set out a clear mission to the government. The task force stated that the government should regulate the right to flexible work by law. Legislation was appropriate for the task force. Despite this good advice, there is no legal right so far. My group welcomes the fact that employers and workers have already made more agreements on flexible working. Fortunately, employers are increasingly seeing the benefits of this. In collective agreements, therefore, the number of agreements on flexible start-up and end-times on home working is increasing. This proposal provides that these collective agreements also apply. But for those who are not covered by a collective agreement, the legal right ultimately offers a stick behind the door. And it's necessary. First-room members are role models in terms of flexible working, but for many employees this is really not self-evident. They are still reluctant to bring this up with their employer because it cannot fall well with their boss and could therefore harm their position. In particular, this proposal makes their position less vulnerable as they make use of legislation. For us, this bill represents a good step towards a more relaxed society with citizens who are able to take their responsibilities. We hope and expect that this proposal will soon be adopted by the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-eerstekamer-6.u27	I've been greatly stimulated by the idea of the role model. I was thinking about the Task Force Part TimePlus and that advice. I'm missing factual information on that. In what way would that differ from what is being proposed now? What is missing from this proposal, which should therefore be included?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-eerstekamer-6.u28	The Task Force Part TimePlus has already advised that what is now in this bill should be regulated by law. In fact, this bill provides for one of the recommendations of the Task Force.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-eerstekamer-6.u29	Thank you. Then I got it right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-eerstekamer-6.u30	I'm suspending the meeting until 2:40, because we're running out of time. At 4 p.m. we have a meeting with the Council of State. Before then, we must finish the debate, I say to the spokesmen and the two initiators.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-eerstekamer-6.u31	Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin by thanking the spokesmen for their constructive attitude and their input in the first term, in particular to Mrs Kneppers. We had not realized that thanks to this bill, the circle for fifteen years of hard work in the First Chamber is complete for her. I listened with great interest to the input of the Chamber and I find it an honour to be able to defend once again here in this Chamber after the referendum law. My colleague and I are pleased that we are being given the opportunity to discuss our proposal further with the Senate. It is good to note that it is widely shared that there is a need for flexible work, that flexible work has added value for both employers and employees and that a cultural change is necessary. At the same time, there were also questions about the need for legislation, across borders and the possible downsides of flexible working on the responsibilities of employers and employees. We are happy to discuss this with your Chamber today. First of all, I will deal with the reason for the legislative proposal and with the question of why we want to regulate it by means of legislation. After that, my co-author, Mr Pieter Heerma of the CDA, will discuss the content of the bill and the grounds for rejection, the relationship to other legislation and the possible side effects. I'm gonna go into the reason for the bill first. My former colleague Ineke van Gent has submitted this bill together with former CDA member Mr Van Hijum. I have taken over the treatment of this bill with full conviction from her, because there is much to improve for many people about how they can combine work and private life. Mr Terpstra asked how long it had taken before the CDA GroenLinks had convinced that women would have to work more hours. I can reassure him. That didn't take so long at all. Apart from the fact that Mr Heerma and I have been able to work together in the House of Representatives very often, I note that this bill serves a different purpose. The aim is not necessarily that people start working more, but that they may also be able to work the hours they are working at another time and that they are not forced to work less, for example, for the benefit of family care. Workers need opportunities to adapt their work flexibly, which can also offer many benefits to employers. Bringing the children to school, providing a sick mother or neighbor, undergoing training or a different rhythm for a good work-life balance: there are so many reasons why good work-life/private arrangements may be needed. Flexible working towards time and place is one of the many schemes that people can help with. These regulations are becoming increasingly necessary, because we all want people to be able to stay at home longer when they become older and more in need. This also happens more and more often, but people have to appeal to their relatives. However, 450,000 carers feel overloaded. 71% of carers combine family care with paid employment. Spreading the hours differently over the day or week also gives people the opportunity to avoid rush hour and thus contribute to the reduction of traffic congestion. In our view, therefore, this law is entirely in line with today's developments and I do not share Mr Kok's comments that the new work would be on its way, but I would like to come back to it later. It should also become more and more normal. The idea exists for some people that flexible work is already very well established, but is it? According to figures from the Knowledge Institute for Mobility Policy, 27% of employees worked at home in 2008. Four years later, that percentage had only increased to 32. In particular, these were people working in ICT or financial services. In the regions around Amsterdam, The Hague and Utrecht, the number of homeworkers was highest. It is therefore not so obvious in other sectors and in other parts of the country. So it matters whether you are an ICT user in Amsterdam or a cleaner in Groningen. That is why the groups of GroenLinks and the CDA have joined forces and tabled this bill. It has already been laid down by law that workers wishing to reduce or increase the number of working hours can apply to the employer. They can only reject it because of significant business or service interests. We would like to extend this further so that there is also a legal right to consider a request to work independently of time or place. We want people to have maximum opportunities to combine work and private life. There are possibilities for this, such as the adjustment of working hours and different leave arrangements. We all need them, too. As authors of the legislative proposal, we believe that extending the right of application to time- and place-independent work can be a good addition. After all, working independently of time or place allows people who want to work the same number of hours and thus without loss of income to combine the work with, for example, caring for relatives. To Mr Terpstra's question whether there has recently been any consultation between the initiators and the social partners on this bill, we have to answer that this has not been the case, but the three trade unions, CNV, FNV and MHP have sent a letter in the Lower House on 26 March 2014, in which they indicate that they are in favour of this bill. This letter states that this bill "provides employees with an additional support to enter into the conversation with their employer where possible. This is positive and can contribute to the necessary cultural change." My colleague and I are pleased with these words of appreciation from the three trade unions. Mrs Kneppers of the VVD indicated that in the context of good employership there is already a duty to consider a request from employees. Good employership, as is now enshrined in the law, does indeed offer a broad umbrella for employees to insist on their employer's good behaviour. However, this does not rule out the need for legislative clarification of important issues. This has been the case in the past for the adjustment of working time. Mrs. Knippers already referred to that. We want to join this now for flexible working to time and place. Our legislative proposal thus clarifies good employment and improves workers' rights. In practice, it does not mean that the employer has to consider rejecting a request and give reasons why he does not respond to a request. The "right to ask" of the employee and the "duty to consider" of the employer apply in particular to site-independent works, as there are no grounds for rejection in the legislative proposal. Then it is very important for the employer to state why a request for flexible work is not accepted. As with the reduction or increase of working time, this legislative proposal applies that a request can only be rejected on the basis of legal grounds for rejection. This request can only be rejected on the basis of the grounds for rejection set out in Articles 2 (9), 10 and 11 of the present legislative proposal. So that's different from what employers should be doing right now. That is why we believe that our legislative proposal is anything but superfluous. In addition, we believe that the proposal provides an incentive to make further agreements on this subject by collective agreement. My fellow applicant will go into this in more detail. A question that several political groups have asked is: why legislation? Do you have to make a law for this now? Since we are defending our legislative proposal here, of course, we say: yes, we believe that this requires legislation. There is already a right of appeal. That is what we want to expand. This proposal is therefore an adaptation of the Working Time Act. It is meant to be a step in the right direction. So the legislative proposal does not change the world on a stand-alone basis, in the sense that everyone will work time- and place-independently from the date of entry into force or that anyone who has this wish can also see it honored. Let us be honest about that, too. The desire for flexibility is there. We want to give the workers who want to take advantage of this in order to have a clear consideration and decision of the employer and to initiate the discussion on this matter. In our view, this legislative proposal can provide a necessary boost, because there are currently no legal regulations that explicitly give employees more opportunities for time and place-independent work. In addition, we believe that legislation is also important in order to anchor or establish a social standard. This law can also contribute to this. Despite legal law, three-quarters of the mandatory law continues to prevail among employers and employees. Later, my co-author will discuss the relationship between our bill and collective agreements. I would like to emphasise that it is not the purpose of this bill to sit in the chair of employees and employers. Our legislative proposal allows workers to apply and to be given the right to see that request seriously considered. If an employer is unable to meet this requirement, he must state his argument. This right already exists for workers when it comes to adjusting working hours. We extend that right to arrange for hours to be worked differently and possibly work in a different place than the employer in the building. Under this law, workers get a stick behind the door to seriously consider their request, and thus the discussion between employers and employees about flexible work is getting more underway. Mr Kok asked whether the bill would not be too late, given the economic situation. His argument is that the situation has changed over the past four years in such a way that this law would no longer apply. Whether it goes economically well or badly, the need for a good combination of work and private life remains. Unemployment is indeed higher than when this bill is submitted, but the experienced workload of people in employment and the pressure that people experience in terms of reconciling work and private life have not diminished. On the contrary, we believe that this pressure will increase. Mr Kok asked whether the bill would not be too late. Isn't that cultural change already going on? We believe that this cultural change is certainly going on, but we are far from there. Further and faster cultural change is needed and later we come to the question of why legislation should contribute to this. A faster cultural change is needed. Flexible working, occasionally working at home or allocating hours flexibly seems increasingly self-evident by companies that move to flexible working and by the stories of people who can organise their work in this way. Flexible work is also increasingly in the interest, but is it really happening more than before? That's the question. There are companies that are doing well, especially in certain branches, but in other sectors and in other parts of the country there is still a lot of profit to be gained. Contrary to Mr Kok, I do not share the conclusion that the new works would be on their way. It is precisely through all kinds of social and political developments that I have outlined before that I think that the need to extend the Working Time Adjustment to include opportunities for time- and place-independent work has only increased. Mrs Sent asked whether this bill would not lead to a widening of the gap between higher-skilled and lower-skilled employees. She didn't mention a specific example, but you could think of an engineer, for example. He always has to make sure the train is on time. There will always be jobs that can't work at home. It is not easy to change that either, but that is no reason not to offer that possibility in jobs where it can. In jobs where it is not possible, you as an employer have a good reason. Indeed, this bill will not change that. We do believe that this legislative proposal can lead people to look more openly at what is possible and that, on closer consideration, it will prove to be possible in jobs which are now said to be impossible. A very good example are the cleaning work in the building of the Lower House. Not so long ago, the standard was that cleaners did their work very early in the morning. Now they can do their job around 10:00 in the morning. That way you can make a change, because that cleaner can now take his children to school. Mr Backer asked about the precise legal text. I've got it here by hand now, but it's all cut and glued fast. I can have this magazine distributed, if you don't mind, Mr. Chairman. I see the chairman nodding yes, and I'll give that magazine to the messenger in no time. I think I have answered the questions on the points I would like to address. If it isn't, I'd love to hear it. Mr Heerma, of course, also discusses a number of aspects.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-eerstekamer-6.u32	Thank you, Mrs Voortman. I now give the floor to Mr Heerma.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-eerstekamer-6.u33	Mr. Chairman. It is an honour to be able to defend this initiative proposal as co-author in this House. I'm taking over the baton of the original co-author of this bill, Eddy van Hijum, who has recently become a deputy in the province of Overijssel. He was able to defend this bill there just before he left the House of Representatives, for which I thank him. In my contribution, I will address a number of points relating to the content of the law, the relationship with collective agreements, the grounds for derogation and possible side effects. First of all, I would like to thank Mr Terpstra for referring to the 1995 General Political Reviews, and Mr Terpstra mentioned 1994, but if I remember correctly, it was 1995 when my father put the family. At the time, this did not fall into good shape in Box K, as Mr Terpstra said. In my maiden speech in the House of Representatives, in debate with this minister, I also paid particular attention to this by saying that at the time the reactions to the raising of the family were not always gentle. I also remember, however, that in response to a question from my maiden speech, this Minister gave a very chic answer. Thank you to Mr Terpstra for referring to that. Mr Terpstra has also been very explicit in his question concerning the social partners. Why was legislation chosen instead of trying to knead and move things in a particular direction? As proposers, we believe that what is regulated in collective agreements is a matter for the collective agreement partners, but that incentives can be provided by the public authorities on matters which should be regulated in these collective agreements and which should be addressed. The added value of the legislation proposed by us lies in the fact that a legal right is sustainable and enforceable. In our view, this legislative proposal represents a positive improvement and an incentive to include further agreements in collective agreements. I would like to refer here to various responses from employee organisations, also recently. For example, in the autumn of last year, the chairman of the CNV indicated that this amendment would be seen as a little support, which could help to raise the issue within companies and organisations and to establish frameworks within which employers and employees can enter into discussions on flexible work. In addition, the choice of three-quarters mandatory law also allows collective agreement partners to make their own agreements by way of derogation or in addition. In doing so, we, as proposers, intend to respect the polder as the place where these agreements are made specifically. Mr Elzinga of the Socialist Party outlined in his contribution the concerns he had expressed on behalf of my group in the written round about the risks of an increasingly flexible labour market and the pressure it places on workers. He also outlined in his term that, in the view of his group, this bill might strike a balance on the other hand and give more rights to your employees. He also referred to the fact that we, as authors, clearly stated in the written reply that we are aware that there are risks, but that we have also explained that this is primarily a right to flexible work, not a duty. I would also like to thank Mr Elzinga for having already expressed the support of his group for this legislative proposal in the first place. Mrs Kneppers of the VVD Group............................................................................................................................................................. I would like to comment specifically on the debate that took place on the absence of a lot of case law, because little is being done. Now it is so that in the written period the VVD Group has also considered that the article in question, BW Book 7, Article 611 is a broader, but thus a more general, article. We see this as a specification, where the extent to which a law is successful and a change of culture is achieved cannot be measured solely by the amount of case law it produces. I myself have to think of a law that has recently been dealt with in the House of Representatives, namely the Law approach fake constructions. I think it's still ahead of the First Chamber. In examining that bill, the House of Representatives frequently referred to the fact that the absence of case law, precisely because of the achievement of the desired cultural change, might highlight the success of a law more than if the law were to lead to a lot of procedures. That is what I wanted to say about the absence of a large number of procedures. The success of a law does not necessarily depend on the amount of legal proceedings that are being conducted. Mr Backer of D66 raised a number of very specific questions on the grounds of derogation, while he gave that to Mr D66 twice in his text, stressing that these were questions of principle already covered by the Working Time Adjustment Act. The shortest answer to these questions is that our predecessors have decided, when it comes to time- and place-independent work, to fit as much as possible in terms of design with that law. Specific questions have been asked about paragraphs 9 and 10 of Article 2. Both members deal with this law and the discussion about it at the beginning of this century. It has been asked whether it is not better to opt for reasonableness and fairness. I can imagine that making the grounds for rejection specific helps an employer to provide a framework in which the response to the request is given, while reasonableness and fairness could also lead to fewer handles and thus more uncertainty for the employer. The D66 Group stated on Article 2 (10) that there would be more grounds for rejection for an employer when it comes to increasing hours. You could say they're other grounds for rejection. In paragraph 9 of the same Article, there are more roster technical matters....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Because if you have a company with only part-time employees who all apply for an increase in hours, then there are financial and business organizational reasons. The proposers don't think that's crazy. Or that means there are more grounds for rejection, I don't know. I think they're different, which also fits the nature of the request. Again, this is actually about aspects that were already covered by the Working Time Act. The PvdA Group has asked a number of questions about the possible side effects of the law. It has been pointed out that we, as the authors of the written reply, briefly went down the road; I am going to try to do this a little bit more. My first comment concerns the division. The PvdA Group has put the risk of a division in the labour market between higher and lower educated people both in writing and here in the debate. The nature of the work, of course, determines the extent to which such a request is likely to succeed. There can be bottlenecks for lower and higher educated people. For a bus driver or a pilot, space-independent work is very complicated. But when it comes to this division, one could also say that it is already there, because the more educated are more powerful, so that they may now be better able to stand up for themselves and thus adjust working hours or the workplace. So you could also say that this bill, which is a little support for all workers, reduces the division that exists at that point in practice. A second concern about the legislative proposal that has been made is the concern about the position of women. Does the legislative proposal lead to a deterioration in the position of women in the labour market, at least to the point where a cultural change has been achieved? For this, I would like to refer to the 2014 MarketResponse study, which shows that the need for women to be able to work flexibly, where they indicate that an employer does not allow it, is greater than among men. But if you look at the aggregated figures, that difference turns out to be much greater, especially among parents with young children. For this reason, the proportion of women and men is even higher. We, as proposers, believe that this is precisely a way of giving support to parents of young children. We do not estimate that this will lead to the non-acceptance of women, one of the concerns of the PvdA Group. Mr Kok said to Mrs Voortman that the period of validity of this bill has been exceeded. I am curious about the investigations that Mr Kok mentioned in that context. However, there are more recent studies that indicate that there is a need and that, albeit modestly, there will be more room for flexible working. The research carried out by MarktetResponse indicates that between 10% and 17% of all employees need this, without giving their employers the opportunity to do so. Among parents with children from 0 to 4 years old, this percentage is even higher. One in four employees indicate that they would like to work flexibly, although they do not see any possibilities with their employer. This is in addition to Mrs Voortman's reply on the contribution this legislative proposal is making.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-eerstekamer-6.u34	Mr. Chairman. I'd like to advise on behalf of the cabinet on this bill. I would like to express my appreciation for the persistence and content of the initiative of the two Members of Parliament. It is nice to witness, where in this house hardly any rough manners occur but on the other side are still visible, the rehabilitation of the family and those who brought that understanding back into national politics, by the mouth of Heerma Junior. The combination of work and care is an important issue, which is also being considered in the Cabinet. We have taken a number of measures under the Modernisation Act for leave and working time at the end of last year, unanimously accepted by both chambers to facilitate the reconciliation of work and care. It is about extending the short and long-term care leave to people who care for brothers, sisters or good friends. I am also sympathetic to the desire to make flexible work a more self-evident part of industrial relations. Flexibility in working time and place can contribute to this sometimes stressful combination for carers, but also for those who combine care for children with their work. Research shows that flexibility in the pattern of work and the workplace is an important prerequisite for a healthy work-life balance for many people. At the same time, I believe that regulating a legal right to flexibility does not take sufficient account of the interests of and consequences for many employers. Making agreements about flexible work requires tailor-made work. In this way, working at home in one situation can improve productivity; in the other it can hinder efficient and effective management. The cabinet therefore considers that this is primarily a matter for employers and employees. The Labour Foundation and the Public Personnel Policy Council share this point of departure. The Foundation has indicated that the initiative will not make a major contribution to the further development of flexible work. Workers' organisations note that a legal right can serve as further support, especially for workers in sectors without collective agreements. Employers indicate that they reject the legal regulation of working conditions relating to the adjustment of jobs and working hours at individual level. The Cabinet notes that agreements on flexible work between employers and employees appear to be already without binding legislation. SER research shows an increase in the number of agreements on working time and site-independent work. With regard to working time-independent work, the percentage of collective agreements which contain provisions affecting workers in the setting of working hours has risen to 72. That is a 12% increase in ten years. In the case of site-independent work, an increase of 21% can be seen, an increase of 4% over three years. The impact of the draft law on site-independent work on employers seems to be significant. As has already been said, this is now the case for 21% of collective agreements. The proposal aims to launch a cultural change. It should be borne in mind, however, that the low percentage does not necessarily have to be a sign of unwillingness on the part of employers, but may also indicate that working independently in the relevant sectors prevents efficient management and therefore does not come off the ground. According to the proposal, the employer should consider a request for site-independent work. According to the Cabinet, the proposal is an example of unnecessary legislation in respect of site-independent work. Even without the law, a good employer must respond to such a request from the employee on a reasoned basis. The bill only formalizes that. The cabinet has less difficulty with the section on time-independent work. In three quarters of collective agreements there are agreements which affect the setting of working hours. The question is therefore whether legislation is the most appropriate instrument to further increase that percentage. I would advise you, in accordance with the Actal opinion, to include alternative policy instruments, such as an examination of the obstacles to reaching agreements in the collective agreement. You could also ask me to enter into a tripartite consultation between employers, employees and cabinet in order to reach more agreements on the possibility of flexible working. Of course, I'd like to be willing to do that. Mr Terpstra, on behalf of the CDA, asked about the government's expectations regarding the effects of the bill. I have said a few things about how we see it in general. Mr Backer rightly points out that the draft law is based on an interruption of three months in the calculation of the one-year period for determining the period of employment and that the Work and Security Act refers to an interruption of six months. I agree with him that it would have been more logical to apply the same six-month period in both laws. Legally, there's no need for it, but it would have made sense. Mrs Sent, on behalf of the Labour Party, asks for the cabinet's efforts to improve public services so that women are not hindered, run into barriers, work. I intend to ask the ESC for advice on working and living in the future. This advice should aim to facilitate better the multiple responsibilities of employees. I will include this question in the request for an opinion. On behalf of GroenLinks, Mrs Strik asks about the cabinet's ambitions for a firm responsibility in the area of childcare and services such as broad schools. In response to this, I would like to refer to my letter of 15 December 2014 to this Chamber, in which I deal, among other things, with broad schools and daily arrangements. According to the Cabinet, a high-quality, up-to-date daily arrangement of education, care and relaxation is an important condition for parents to start working. The cabinet contributes proactively by supporting development with pilots and experiments aimed at other school and reception times. For example, the Secretary of State for Education informed the House of Representatives on 16 January last about the Monitor flexibilisation of teaching time and the five equal days model; "continuous roasting," as it is called homely. The cabinet is therefore, I regret to say, negative in terms of the need for legislation on site-independent work, and neutral, but positive-neutral, in terms of time-independent work. However, this Chamber should give an opinion on the entire legislative proposal and I would therefore ask the Chamber to include the opinion of the Cabinet on both elements of the legislative proposal in its final judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-eerstekamer-6.u35	We have now reached the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Terpstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-eerstekamer-6.u36	Mr. Chairman. On behalf of our entire group, I would like to thank the authors and the Minister for all the answers. I found Mrs Voortman's answer to the question whether everyone could work at home very enlightening. She noted that an ICT worker can work more easily at home than, for example, a cleaner. That seemed like a good example to me, because cleaning your own house doesn't seem like your boss will say, "Your work is now well done." So I thought that was a very clear picture. My question about not speaking with employers and employees was answered by saying that the trade unions had written a good letter. Even considering my past at CNV, this is not a good alternative for me to answer the question. But I will deal with this because I am very pleased with the Minister's commitment to discuss all these issues, the combination of care and work as well as this bill, with the Labour Foundation. So this is automatically solved. In my first term I had assumed an alternative: either there is a law, or you apply Seelenmassage to the social partners. The proposers have convinced me of the idea that you can also see a law as an instrument for the Seelen massage. On the basis of these deep thoughts, I would like to give my group a positive opinion on this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-eerstekamer-6.u37	Mr. Chairman. I thank the authors. Mrs Voortman has done it before, so it went with routine. Mr Heerma did it in the knowledge that legislative work is a preparation for the deputy. I saw he was having fun too. Thank you for the consolidated text. Mr Heerma said that we stayed as close as possible to the existing text. I understand that strategically very well. But I read that debate once. It has been an unclear debate in some parts; perhaps it can be said now, after fifteen years, with an apology to Mr Kneppers. That's why I thought I'd try that again. But I understand the choice of the proposers, and now it's a little late to do that differently. Article 2 (10), on multiple hours, states "at least"; thereafter, the grounds are "financial," "organic," "sufficient work" and "formation space." By their very nature, these are issues which, in my opinion, give a greater scope for decision-making and a great deal of discretion. I am just saying that this is my interpretation. I would like to thank the Minister for his observation that tailor-made work has to be done on this. I share with him what he says in three and six months; that would have been better, but well, it is now as it is. I also share with him that the employers and employees will, as it were, fill in the standard themselves in the concrete work situation. Tripartite consultations could contribute to this. From an unsuspecting source, I encourage the Minister to do so. For a moment I was dealing with the judicium of the cabinet, 'negative' and 'neutral', but my group is also drawing its own plan. I will advise her to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-eerstekamer-6.u38	Mr. Chairman. I thank the initiators and the Minister for the careful answers to our questions. We had put two questions to the initiators. The first question concerned the obstacle that the legislative proposal could create to the adoption of women with young children in particular. From the response of the initiators, I understand that this might be a broader obstacle, namely to hiring people who belong to a family with young children, not only the mothers but also the fathers. So the follow-up question is: what about the legalization? Could this have unintended consequences in a broader sense? The second question to the initiators we had was the inequality in the labour market. It could go either way. On the one hand, inequality could be increased if, above all, people at the bottom of the labour market, the basis of the labour market, as we would like to call it here, could be reduced to such opportunities. At the same time, of course, you do not want to deny those opportunities on the other side of the labour market. I found it interesting to think that in this way the division could be weakened, because the officials already make use of these possibilities, and those who are less educated find support in this and call upon this law to make such requests. Nevertheless, as far as my group is concerned, the threat of division in the labour market must always remain a matter of concern. Finally, I would like to comment on the Minister's reaction to our concern about breaking the part-time clamp. We look forward to the ESC opinion on working in the future. We welcome the Minister's commitment to include our question concerning the inclusion of opportunities to break the part-time squeeze in the advisory question. We are only curious about the deadline for receiving the ESC opinion. I'll close with that. Anyone who can work should be able to contribute as well as possible. We believe that the present initiative proposal represents an important step in this direction. I will therefore advise my group to vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-eerstekamer-6.u39	Mr. Chairman. I would like to make a few brief comments. As I said in my first speech, it is a commendable initiative. That in itself doesn't change anything. The big question is whether this is an initiative that is going to be implemented. On the one hand, I have to say that the background to being able to work flexibly in time and place has in fact become more urgent over time. However, I do not wish to contradict myself, but the compelling, imposed need from the government side to a far-reaching degree of participation and increase in the use of family care has become urgent, has greatly increased. I have recently understood that a large group of women aged 40 to 60 are suffering from care. It is only unfortunate and sad to note that the policy we have experienced in recent times is in fact the responsibility of public policy for the fact that it has become so. On the other hand, I note that the lack of public services, as pointed out by the Minister, has not made this picture any better. In fact, there is a huge gap. I must also note that the assumption of labour shortages, as I understand it, by increasing the number of hours of work that would play an urgent role is no longer an issue. In fact, part-time work, which has already been done, has remained the context. The number of working hours has not changed and is not going to change. In this respect, I note that the disadvantages I have listed in the limited context of part-time work have in fact become even more urgent. In addition, I believe that this is an essential point in the debate.... the risk of job insecurity has increased considerably as a result of the flexibilisation of the labour market. The pressure on employers to choose other forms of involvement of these groups has only been increased. This proposal will not solve this essential problem. The formal adoption of this law does not change that, quite the contrary. What remains, in fact, is the fact that, as has already been said, it is the conduct of tailor-made work in good consultation between the employee and the employer in order to fill in good employership.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-eerstekamer-6.u40	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the initiators and the Minister very much for their adequate answers. In any case, they have strengthened me and my group in the view that a legal right contributes to people's ability to organise their own lives optimally and that this contributes to more communication in the workplace and thus to more satisfaction in the workplace. If there is still reason to doubt whether you need a law for that, I would say: where there is no need, the better because employers and employees find each other. But there are still situations where that is not the case. That's not something abstract. I'll give you an example of an acquaintance I spoke to this weekend. She works in care, part-time, and has a terminally ill man who she always wants to be able to take care of in the coming months in the afternoons because he needs the most care. The leaders wanted to think about it first, but they suddenly withdrew their cooperation without any justification. That's what makes her frustrated. With such a legal right, the employer should at least give serious consideration to this request. This does not always have to lead to satisfaction on both sides, but it does lead to a conversation and the search for customization and a solution for both parties. That is why I would be very pleased if this bill were to be adopted next week. The Minister mentioned a number of efforts made by the Cabinet to improve the employment rate of women. That's very important. However, the Minister indicated that many measures concern only pilots, and efforts. I would point out to the Minister that especially fathers and mothers for the choices they make in terms of the labour market really need structural investment and structural provision which they need to be able to count on in the coming years in order to organise their lives. With only pilots and uncertainties, it is very difficult to complete the division of labour. I call for as little uncertainty as possible in this area. The Minister seems to want to put the political groups in a bit of a split in his opinion. He is positive neutral on the one hand, but not positive on the other. Fortunately, we are assuming the autonomy of political groups. We therefore hope that the Minister will not just roll over the positive neutral side but simply the positive side.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-eerstekamer-6.u41	The initiators are willing to answer immediately. I call Mrs Voortman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-eerstekamer-6.u42	Mr. Chairman. Since you have called for speed because you have another obligation at 4 p.m., I will confine myself to the questions put by Mr Terpstra, Mrs Sent and Mr Kok. Mr Terpstra asked about consultation with the social partners. If I have given the impression that there has been no such consultation at all, I am very sorry. What I meant to say was that there has been no consultation recently. I speak to the social partners on a regular basis. I think Mr Heerma is doing the same. This has been discussed in those talks, but not recently. I hope that Mr Terpstra understands what I would have liked to say earlier. Mrs Sent asked about inequality in the labour market. I do believe that this bill strengthens people who may find it difficult to make such a request. For example, they can be lower-educated people. As a result, the distance between lower and higher educated can be reduced. With her, I will do everything in my power to combat this division in the labour market. Mr Kok also referred to the flexibility of the labour market. He said that this bill does not solve the flexibility of the labour market, but that is not the purpose of the law either. The aim of the law is to give people more opportunities to work more flexibly, if they want to, so flexibly to place and flexibly to time. In this respect, I liked what Mr Elzinga said about it in the first term. For the sake of clarity, I quote him: "However, the legislative proposal on flexible working gives more rights to employees, more freedom of regulation to adapt working hours and workspace to the possibilities and preferences, so that the work in the existing contract can be made more appropriate and remain appropriate in changing circumstances." I understand from Mr Kok's input that he has difficulty with the fact that flexibilisation is often at the disadvantage of workers, but in this case we believe that this can be in the interest of workers. So I hope he can also give his group a vote in favour of this bill. My fellow applicant will now answer a number of other questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-eerstekamer-6.u43	Mr. Chairman. I can be brief in my second term because the number of remaining questions is limited. As proposers, we thank the various spokesmen who have indicated that they will present the legislative proposal with a positive opinion to their political groups. I thank Mr Terpstra for his observation that he saw the first term as convincing, in the sense that a law can also serve as a massage medium for the social partners. I thought that a fine representation of the three-quarters of the law, which we use in this bill, was urgent. Mr Backer again referred to the previous debate on the Working Time Adjustment Act. I would like to thank him for his understanding that, in the drafting of the amendment to the legislative proposal, we have taken part in the choices made under that bill. As proposers, we understand in our place the interpretation that Article 2 (10) is wider. I would like to stress once again that this also fits in with the nature of the request, because filling a gap that falls into a schedule has a somewhat different business impact than when all kinds of employees have to get paid extra salary, because they are all going to work more hours. In my view, the differences in paragraphs 9 and 10 are in fact already relevant to the examination of the proposal of the Working Time Adjustment Act, even in the light of the differences in the nature of the requests. As regards the questions raised by the Labour Party's group, Mrs Voortman has already referred to the division of labour. My first-term response was not to create the impression that the problem was much wider and that there would be much greater judicialisation, because the target group of people who could submit a request on the basis of the research referred to is wider than just women. I meant to say that, on the basis of this study, we do not share the concern that this would be a request that would be made, in particular, by women and that they would thus deteriorate their position on the labour market. The number of groups that indicate that they do wish to have a right, but to run against restrictions imposed by the employer, is wider. This also applies to men in a general sense. Not that it wouldn't be there, but you can see that the need is greater among women and especially among young fathers and young mothers. The interruption debate between the VVD Group and the GroenLinks Group in the first term already showed that there is little case law in the area of the Working Time Adjustment Act. Nor is it necessarily expected that there will now be a major judicialisation on the basis of this bill. Nor are we concerned about the fact that, as a result of this bill, the position of women and of young parents in the labour market would deteriorate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-eerstekamer-6.u44	Mr. Chairman. There was only one question. When is the ESC opinion on work and life expected in the future? This is expected in the first quarter 2016.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-eerstekamer-6.u45	That was short but powerful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-eerstekamer-6.u46	I'm here to deal with the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That's the case. Then I suggest we vote on this bill next Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-eerstekamer-6.u47	I would like to thank all those who have taken part in this debate for their short, powerful and efficient way of debating, so that we are ready in time. Thank you.
