ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-4.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister and the Secretary of State for Health, Welfare and Sport to the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. The budget of Health, Welfare and Sport is one of the pillars of our welfare state, a welfare state that Dutch citizens have built up with hard work and for which they pay their lives decent contributions. They have a just expectation that they will be able to fall back on them if they become unexpectedly in need of care. However, all the cuts since the Kunduz agreement have made it possible for our Dutch citizens to fulfil that expectation. Vulnerable elderly people can no longer count on a place in the nursing home; over 60,000 places are no longer funded. Instead of the nurse in the nursing home, the cashier of the Albert Heijn is now forced to take care of confused elderly people. In the meantime, aldermen talk about "social inclusion," a hollow phrase for those who look at the practice in which caring citizens are considered unsolicited to be increasingly self-reliant and fall back on the euphemist concept of "participant society." This applies not only to vulnerable elderly people for whom there is no place in the nursing home. Because of the so-called "extramuralization zzp 1 to 3" in the Kunduz agreement, the financing of the protected housing has also been stripped. This extramuralisation is taken very literally in practice: young people with a mental disorder, for whom no longer sheltered housing is financed, literally have no walls around them anymore. They get out on the street and are referred to the homeless shelter, the only alternative. The homeless shelter is already overcrowded. Last week, for example, the municipality of Amsterdam announced that many places are short. Also, the door sometimes remains closed, for example for the vulnerable homeless 33-year-old woman who died on 2 June this year on the doorstep of nightcare in Eindhoven, after she was refused access partly due to an error in the information system. For a Dutch citizen in need, a roof over his head is not certain. However, for asylum seekers, who arrive in the Netherlands after passing about eight safe countries in search of our prosperity, the cabinet guarantees a roof over its head. No asylum seeker needs to sleep on the street; no effort is spared for them. Beds made up and catering are always ready. And for those who are finished and staying here illegally, this VVD/PvdA cabinet provides in bed, bath and bread. This illegal shelter is also paid generously from the taxpayer's wallet. In addition to the cost of receiving illegal immigrants, the cost of medical care for displaced asylum seekers and other illegal persons who knowingly fail to comply with their obligation to leave are enormous. The cost of staying illegals in hospitals, ggz institutions and AWBZ institutions is rising. Each year, EUR 30.8 million is declared to the government by health care providers to account not paid by illegal immigrants.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-4.u3	I would like to follow Mr Van Hattem so much in his concern for vulnerable people, but by the way he puts other vulnerable people away, he makes this so complicated that I can no longer follow him.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-4.u4	It's very clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-4.u5	This is not a question, it is an announcement. You can continue with your speech, Mr Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-4.u6	Fine. In addition, it is estimated that general practitioners, dentists and hospitals will have to make up for 6.4 million euros themselves, according to an article published in the media this weekend, based on figures from the Dutch Health Institute. If an intervention is necessary for an illegal operation and is included in the basic package, it will be reimbursed. So that's more than acute medical attention. These are also dietary recommendations and full dental prostheses applied by the dentist. This is absurd and outrageous. The question for the Minister is therefore whether she is prepared to stop all care facilities for illegal immigrants, except for acute medical care. I'd like to hear a response. How different is this for Dutch citizens. On all sides, care for them is being cut, for example by the unnecessarily far-reaching preference policy. As a result, patients are forced to use cheaper medicines instead of the medicines they have been using for years. This is even the case if these cheaper medicines have a detrimental effect on their health. Otherwise, they'll have to pay for this themselves. This week, the alarm clock was again sounded in the newspaper. And for terminally ill Dutch citizens, who have the last wish to die at home in their familiar surroundings, care at home is refused. Even terminal patients are sent out a hospice if an zzp indication cannot be changed; they are forced to return to a nursing home. Tens of millions for illegals, but not for terminals. It's a It's gonna get a lot worse. This summer, Angela Merkel announced completely rücksichtslos' Project X party, which was shared by Rutte and other europhile government leaders with naïve enthusiasm: come all this way, "wir purchase tie!'. The locks for the sheltersunami went wide open and the chaos is enormous. According to CBS, 70,000 asylum seekers will come to our country next year. This will mean that the Netherlands will have to choose: immigration country or welfare state.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-4.u7	What does the influx of asylum seekers have to do with the VWS budget?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-4.u8	As I point out: a lot. We are talking here only about EUR 30.8 million declared as additional costs for illegal immigrants. These are people who should no longer be staying in the Netherlands and who are obliged to leave.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-4.u9	We have a budget of about 70 billion, of which 30 million will go to illegal immigrants, or 100 million will go to people living in the COAs in need of care. So we're just talking about a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-4.u10	But all the little bits help people who also need it very much: people who are in nursing homes, terminal patients who can no longer die in a familiar environment or people who are at the door of the homeless shelter and are refused. Those are also facts that we have to observe. Those are also little bits and those little bits are also very much needed. If this asylum flow continues, it won't be a little bit. I have just said that the Netherlands must choose: immigration country or welfare state. For the PVV it is clear that we cannot and do not want to be an immigration country; the borders must be closed. But as long as this cabinet does not close the borders, this asylum system will have disastrous consequences for the sustainability of the welfare state and thus for the care and well-being of our citizens. The cost of care per asylum seeker is on average €5,000. By definition, asylum seekers who are in the Dutch shelter will be reimbursed for all their care costs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-4.u11	If Mr Van Hattem is so concerned about the welfare state, he must also know what percentage of the national budget we are going to spend next year in the Netherlands on health care and social security.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-4.u12	Of such quiz games...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-4.u13	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-4.u14	If I'm half a percent past it, you've got your dot and I'm out of it. What I think is much more important is the fact that there are unnecessary cuts. 105 austerity measures have been announced as a result of the Kunduz agreement, which can be changed and at the expense of Dutch citizens. That's what Mrs Barth and her party, the PvdA, are responsible for. I think that's much more important than a percentage quiz game.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-4.u15	It is a pity that so much contempt is expressed in this House for the facts, but if Mr Van Hattem does not know, I can help him. Next year we will spend 58% of the national budget in the Netherlands on health and social security. This year is 57% and last year it was 53%. The welfare state in the Netherlands is not broken down, but it grows every year. That's because the PvdA, together with the VVD, is watching over that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-4.u16	Meanwhile, there are still 105 austerity measures at the expense of Dutch citizens. That is also a fact, and that fact is a much harder fact for me than Mrs Barth's excellent knowledge of percentages. Paying tens of thousands of euros to smugglers is not a problem, but our taxpayers can pay for their care costs. The question is not even asked whether these asylum seekers still have money or have access to any assets abroad. The COA just pulls the wallet. A wider basic package is available for these asylum seekers via health insurance company Menzis free of charge than for Dutch citizens, without the own risk of €385. Physical therapy, dental care, contraception, glasses and rollators, it is all reimbursed for asylum seekers. Even before this year, Menzis indicated that he expected a doubling of this cost of care for asylum seekers of no less than 130 million. Can the Minister indicate when the border will be reached? I'd like to get a response. Then there are special facilities for mental and physical care as standard in the asylum-seekers' centres. Daily spending is also ensured on the azc's. Meanwhile, lonely Dutch elderly people have to be on waiting lists for a few hours of daily spending. After all, this cabinet has made considerable savings on this matter. For confused elderly people there is not enough money for some extra attention. Instead, it is still the order of the day that they are fixed and isolated and spend their day intoxicated by the administration of psychopharmaceutical. After all, they are not asylum seekers, for whom a pack of COA ladies is ready to go to the skating rink subsidised. No, our vulnerable elderly people find closed care homes. And where care homes are still open, it is preferable to take initiatives to make facilities available there to asylum seekers whose background or possible infectious diseases are hardly known. The safety and health of vulnerable residents can no longer be guaranteed. For Secretary of State Dijkhoff, none of this is a problem. He reacts unabashedly to it: "There are old women there. Yeah, so?', That's how he put it in Trouw last Saturday. It is indicative of the reckless attitude of this cabinet in the asylum invasion. After all, in the relevant mega-azc Heumensoord recently spawned scabs and tuberculosis among the asylum seekers. The screening on this is insufficient. Should we be at risk of vulnerable elderly people in the care home becoming infected with these highly contagious diseases, or with other infectious diseases that are common among asylum seekers, such as MRSA? So the cabinet says, "Yeah, so what?'. I'd like to get a response from the Minister. In addition, this cabinet would like to outline the image that many highly educated asylum seekers would have, such as the "apotheker from Aleppo." At present, however, there are already insufficient financial resources to fund the highly qualified Dutch medical staff. Many Dutch doctors do not come to work and the number of nurses, including district nurses, is cut by this cabinet. How can the Minister reconcile this with the influx of asylum seekers into these medical professions? I would also like to receive a response from the Minister. In this First Chamber, laws are assessed, among other things, on feasibility, as is the current budget of VWS. My question to the Minister is therefore whether she can indicate the effects of the asylum flow in the area of VWS for this year and in the years to come and whether she believes that this budget is sufficiently practicable and that Dutch citizens will not fall apart. Finally, I would like to say a few words about this. Last Saturday, the media announced that the top men of the big health insurance companies stated that without limiting the choice of doctors, the premium for the basic health insurance policy would not have to be increased. Last year, this minister said that this legislative amendment would be necessary, otherwise the premium and the own risk would have to be increased further. Can the Minister confirm the statement of the health insurance companies? In this case, does the Minister also consider that a restriction on free choice of doctors is absolutely unnecessary and is she prepared to refrain from further initiatives in this area? I'd like to get a reaction to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-4.u17	What alternatives does the PVV propose when it comes to this budget? Does Mr Van Hattem think that there should be investment and that there should be money in healthcare?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-4.u18	We need to distinguish two things. On the one hand, we have the budget with costs that are simply necessary for care and, on the other hand, we see recent developments with the asylum invasion, which will significantly increase certain costs and increase them further if we do not do anything about them. We have made many proposals for savings, for example by tackling waste, tackling unnecessarily high salaries of top managers in healthcare and cutting in the boards. We have extensively named and described such matters. They will undoubtedly be known to Mr Bruijn, because in the House of Representatives we have mentioned them to the grave. In that respect, we have enough alternatives to this budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-4.u19	When the PVV had to write it down in its election programme, it led to billions of cuts not only in care but also in social security and loss of at least 5,000 jobs in healthcare. They're not just the top managers. Mr Van Hattem is not getting away from dealing with the concern that our economy is suffering and that is really too expensive? Isn't that where we find each other?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-4.u20	We can find each other in such a way that really unnecessary costs can be addressed. These are indeed the high salaries of top managers and the waste of medicines and resources. I think we can get our hands on each other for that. Those things just need to be better organised. That's a very clear story. My colleague in the Lower House, Mrs. Agema, has written a fist-thick book on what is all possible. There is no misunderstanding about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-4.u21	Mr. Chairman. The 2016 budget of VWS is ahead of discussion. Logically, you would think, given the huge impact this budget places on the entire resources of the Empire and also municipalities. Add to that that the budget rightly states that health is a great asset and that achieving health requires a rigorous combination of prevention, healing, care and support for all. Prevention is better than cure, the Minister and the Secretary of State write. If we take this expression seriously, it seems obvious that we should ask some critical questions and make suggestions for making decisions on this budget. This proposal is based on choices made in the past. In their policy agenda for 2016, the Minister and the Secretary of State write that it is crucial for the caregivers that the care is of high quality, safe and personalised. In 2016, people will really notice that care improves and the care providers will be given more space and confidence to do their job, all of this with the accompanying steps to further control healthcare spending. There will therefore be a better quality of care provided by professionals who are allowed to practice their profession. That is a goal that the SP Group can support. But where are we now? The Minister has built up a good reputation to remain within the financial framework. The Secretary of State, on the other hand, has repeatedly come up against the undesirable consequences of these strict frameworks. I ask them about the quality of care in the 2016 policy plans? What about the space and trust that the professionals need to be able to practice their profession and what do the caregivers notice about it? I shall return to these questions later in my speech. The policy agenda in the VWS budget is a nice wish list for under the Christmas tree. Is that list being executed, too? Will, as stated in the policy agenda, people actually notice improvements in healthcare in 2016? I'm an optimistic man, but there's every reason for scepticism. In recent years, much has been promised, but little given. And that, as the proverb says, only the madman lives in joy. I'll give you some facts and figures. The number of people who are late in payment to their health insurance provider has more than doubled since 2008. We have over 330,000 contributors. There are at least 800,000 people who have trouble paying for their health insurance policy. The own risk has grown more than two and a half times higher since 2008. In the 2016 budget, the own risk, per adult, is €385. That's a tenner more than last year. More people avoid the cost of care. According to the NIPO study of October last. The own risk in care delays 18% of patients taking care for financial reasons. Even health insurers acknowledge that their own risk is too high and should be reduced. Then why isn't that happening? This is a fair question, isn't it? What does the Minister and the Secretary of State think about this? A large number of care tasks have been transferred from Reich to municipalities. We have always stated that we support the principle of decentralisation, but that we must fight the way in which it has been achieved. We believe that we are right and the government is not. Half of the municipal budget has been spent on health and participation policies since decentralisation. Many municipalities receive too little money to carry out the transferred tasks properly according to the last October signal report: Notifications and changes in care. The imminent bankruptcy of TNS and the problems at Sensire at the beginning of this year are examples of how things go wrong in practice. The pgb-debacle is a centralisation problem, but it is not well prepared here either, with consequences for budget holders. Last night we saw the necessary things again in Nieuwsuur. I ask the Secretary of State to respond to this broadcast. Of course, the government is not blind to signals. Here and there the damage is repaired, such as with the program Dignity and pride, with the recent plan to offer alpha helpers an employment and start training for WMO consultants for good customer care. Enough initiatives, but they are a lot of talk measures and people continue to laugh, as in the Telegraaf last Saturday it could be read about forcing drugs under the influence of health insurance companies. Why wait first for the unrest caused by the decisions that have been taken and then repaired? The redundancies and redundancies were predicted by the CPB in 2014? The CPB models are sacred to the government, right? Why is it only now, after thousands of redundancies, that this deal is proposed for the alpha helpers? How do the Minister and the Secretary of State consider the concerns and discontent of the people? We are not only critical, we are also providing alternatives. I refer to our plan The concern is ours, which has been calculated by the CPB and has been submitted to the government and the House of Representatives. This plan is based on basic public care for all, at no risk and with a visible benefit for seven out of ten households. I'm not going to talk about it here. It would be worthwhile involving these plans in a future review debate on decentralisation. These decentralisations have also been decided in this Chamber. I now turn to the 2016 quality policy proposals of the Minister and the Secretary of State, as formulated in the budget. The Market Organisation and Health Insurance Act and the Health Insurance Act have been in force for almost ten years. The principles, the budgetary framework, high quality, safe and personal, were also the basis for a system change at the time. This year, the aim was to provide patients with an accelerated understanding of the quality of care. An efficiency agenda has been drawn up, focusing on some 30 diseases. There is also a transparency calendar with a focus on 37 diseases. Healthcare insurers The Netherlands has a top 30 of diseases that are measured. The quality institute also has a multiannual agenda. All these agendas are concerned with the quality of care and all with their own questionnaires. The hospitals are legally obliged to provide information to the IGZ and the Zorginstituut Nederland. In addition, they provide information, whether voluntarily or not, to the NZa, health insurers, patient organisations and other service providers. The mandatory information from the transparency calendar of the Zorginstituut (Zorginstituut) alone concerns 1850 questions for 37 diseases. The various professions, such as specialists, also record separately their actions to improve their working methods. I'm getting tired of saying all this. This is a huge amount of workload that leads to frustration among those who have to supply the information. Does the Minister intend to evaluate the use of this quality information in 2016? Does he want to look at the streamlining of these agendas and quality systems? Is the Minister prepared to make governance agreements on how quality systems and indicators can be established? Many of these quality systems resemble fill-in lists consisting of process and structural indicators. Wanting to measure quality appears to be the goal. Measuring results with and with clients is lagging behind. There is little work done with PROMS, the patient related outcome measures. But what will be measured? Then what is quality? Why is the use of PROMS not a standard? In the industry report of the general hospitals 2015 Healthcare shows: patients hardly use quality information. And: most patients do not choose consciously and go to the nearest care facility, the care provider with whom they have been more often or the healthcare provider who advises their GP. However, a lot of energy is put into making information available to the healthcare seekers, such as in the information systems kiesbeter.nl and zorginzicht.nl. These websites should help healthcare seekers to make their choice. Whether these systems are helpful, however, is the question. They are difficult to access, are full of medical concepts and the information is sometimes old. In doing so, these systems almost only describe the process and structure components. The indicators that can provide real patient information are scarce. This is the nine-year health insurance law harvest! I ask the Minister to explain to me how the efforts to inform clients relate to the ruling in the healthcare industry report. How should the care provider be informed? In her letter Together decide on 9 October last. places the Minister at the centre of joint decision-making between the physician and the patient; the dialogue as a focal point. But how does this dialogue model relate to a procurement procedure from the health insurance company that still focuses mainly on the price? It's about getting confidence against having to prove you can be trusted every time. But where is this dialogue in the pursuit of quality? I'd like to hear the Minister's answer. Prickles to steer are enough. Prickles and dialogue; they bite each other. The Quality Programme pays off with incentives for the parties to move in a desired direction. An example of this is the AFM code of conduct for the comparison sites. The health insurance companies are unable to be clear about their health policies. In the NRC of 4 December 2015, the article Mirrors and beads in the polisjungle mentions 1,400 choice combinations. My colleague Van Gerven in the Lower House even comes out with 5,940 options, given by 71 different policies. One thing's for sure: the ordinary woman or man really doesn't come out. And if you are using a comparison site for your choice, it is wise to investigate whether this site is objective and whether money is being made secretly from your possible switch. Why have no agreements been made by health insurance companies to make their policies comparable? And why are the health insurance companies unable to make the care purchased by them transparent on the basis of effectiveness? It seems that the insured should not know whether this care contributes to their recovery or to the stability of their lives. That's not freedom of choice, that's a choice tombola! The responsibility of health insurers is to offer real choices. Luring insured people to another healthcare policy with a free computer is bizarre. For us, this behaviour of health insurers is an example of market forces that go wrong in the care sector. Stop this nonsense: give the citizen a clear, affordable policy and let him know where he is and how to get good care against a decent premium. This isn't too much to ask, is it? The Minister promises in her policy agenda that in 2016 people will really see how care improves through the measures taken by her ministry. Can the Minister, in measurable terms, explain to its insured citizens what these improvements will look like in 2016? What can the citizen expect? Another alarm signal: after nearly ten years of Health Insurance Act, the general practitioners rebelled. The helm must be turned, they demanded. Dialogue instead of one-sided purchasing contacts with the health insurers was among other things the commitment of this action. The minister writes about space and trust for the caregivers. In the action The Rudder Must Om, the Minister figuratively threw her weight into the battle. The health insurance companies have shown that they can't handle their direction. Can we expect more guidance from the Minister in the relationship between the health insurance companies and the healthcare providers in 2016? And if so, what are the points of interest? The general practitioners of the ACM may now work together under conditions and not before the action. It looks like the ACM's rules of play are stretchable. I would ask the Minister to explain what this is all about. After ten years, we are still at the beginning of the quality discussion. That says something about the difficult practical implementation of the 'quality' concept of container. And also about the way in which the debate between the various parties is taking place on this subject. The use of outcome indicators will give more insight into the effectiveness of treatments. However, this means a strong open dialogue between the caregivers, caregivers and financiers, with content experts having to guide this development. Another afterburner. This week, a psychotic client was being treated by the ggz and went on short leave to his apartment. He does not return to the ggz setting, which then unsubscribes him. The ggz client is under residential supervision of the Salvation Army. He's getting psychotic again and the ggz is referring him back to the GP. After all, it's written out. This isn't an incident. It's not good care in the neighborhood for people with psychiatric problems. Last week the Minister received two reports. One was by Aedes, the association of housing associations. The other one belonged to the Salvation Army. Both organizations signal an increase in confused persons from a different perspective. The Minister takes these signals seriously. This is evident from her letter of inquiry, the plan of action for confused persons, the start of the GGZ Task Force and the team for confused persons. Confused people themselves cannot, unfortunately, come to terms with these initiatives. Ensuring that different assisting processes are better coordinated will not provide the whole solution. We need specialized hands as well as stones for houses. And of course I am impatient, but I see, especially in my position as director Limburg and Brabant at the Salvation Army, changing the street view. The circle keeps repeating itself. There is one aspect missing from the Minister's letter: access to ggz care through the general practitioner. This formal access is an obstacle to a growing group of confused citizens in the public domain. They don't go to the GP for a referral to the psychiatrist. They are sometimes not known at all by the municipality. But they're here. I ask the Minister if she is prepared to investigate this bottleneck in 2016, and I ask her to include the model of unsolicited emergency care in the public domain in this study. Another word for this is "street doctor." Before I finish, I have a brief comment on the initiative 'The New GGZ', an initiative that I think fits perfectly into the gap between thinking and doing. From symptom medicine back to the context of the person. Is this what the Minister wants? It's not about the words, it's about the involvement and energy of those who support it. Less doctor, more own strength, nearby, digitally supported and with the carer at the helm. And cheaper! In case the minister doesn't believe me, which is hard to imagine, she can still release her PROMS. I trust that those too will show what I think. Of course, I look forward with great interest to the reactions of Minister and Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-4.u22	I listened with interest to Mr Don's speech. He comes at some point with an alternative to the budget. He's referring to a piece of SP I don't know. He said he didn't want to go into more detail, but I invite him to do it, because the latest figures I have from the CPB are from the 2012 SP plans. At that time, the SP's proposals contained a reduction in own payments. However, these resulted in an increase in the cost of care for the economy, resulting in the structural disappearance of 280,000 jobs from the economy, despite the fact that SP provided 25,000 jobs in healthcare. If Mr Don has an alternative that leads to sustainable care costs, despite a reduction in his own contribution, and it does not greatly affect employment, especially among the less likely in society, that is so important that I invite him to present the key elements of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-4.u23	I would ask Mr Don to be very brief.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-4.u24	There are some important elements. The departure of one's own risk, the conversion of the private health insurance companies into a public health insurance scheme and a statutory public health care system. We could see to what extent we could put some sort of basic package into the Wmo. Of course, Mr Bruijn is now going to ask for a lot of figures. I've got them ready, but that's gonna be a big, well-nothing game. I would like to discuss this plan with him at another time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-4.u25	I think that's very nice. I call Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-4.u26	Mr. Chairman. The minister was in Denmark last weekend at the Dutch-Norway handball final. In a finale, only one can be the loser. Sometimes a third place is better than losing the finals. As a former president, I was very pleased that the Minister was present at a handball game, and not so often at a football game. Hands and feet: it doesn't save much. What would you do without your hands and feet, even in politics? The 50PLUS Group would like to take advantage of the opportunity of examining the budget of the Ministry of Health, Welfare and Sport to raise the Minister's decision of 2 December, changing the percentages of income-dependent care contributions. It was an amendment agreed in principle in the 2015 Millions Note. The reduced rate was increased by 0.65% from 4.85% to 5.5%, while the standard rate, the employer rate, was reduced from 6.95% to 6.75% The reduced IAB rate is paid by the elderly andzzp'ers and not by the benefit recipients. I refer to the response to the Tax Plan. The 0.65% increase is structural and is an increase of as much as 15% in one go and results in an additional premium of €130 to €380. We received this in response to the written questions from the Secretary of State for Finance. This means that when the supplementary pension is paid out in January, we will see again, just as a few years ago, that €11 to €31 more care premium is withheld, with the corresponding loss of purchasing power. This is a structural burden increase of 275 million for older people with a negative purchasing power effect of 0.7% for all incomes up to €55,000. This also applies to all lower incomes, the Secretary of State replied to us again last week. The total income-dependent premium will amount to €1,100 to almost €3,000 in 2017. Forzzp'ers, the increase in the IAB leads to a burden increase of 120 million. We shouldn't forget that either. For pensioners, the amount is 275 million and forzzp'ers 120 million. That's 395 million structuralally, one stone. At the Tax Plan, the Secretary of State for Finance tried to stay out of it, but I've been debating it and doing it again today. It's never too late. It is clear that the only justification for the increase is to improve the position of the Treasury. It's not the position of the care. With a tax relief of 5 billion through the 2016 Tax Plan, that can't be true. For the elderly, this premium increase is an even greater deterioration in purchasing power than the initial structural reduction of the €83 reduction in the elderly discount already decided in last year's Tax Plan. That already meant a burden increase of 200 million. Apart from the 2016 Tax Plan, the purchasing power of the elderly would fall by more than 1%. The increase in the care premium was the major culprit with a share of 0.7%. While tens of hours were also debated in the House of Representatives during the discussion of the Tax Plan, the income-related premium remained heavily underexposed. Technically, it's not part of the Tax Plan. However, it was good to see that attention was paid to the increase in the debate. The Krol motion in part No. 74 on the reversal of the increase in the income-dependent contribution was rejected. In the debate with the State Secretary last night, I reiterated the structural burden increase of 500 million for older people from 2017. The increase in this care premium accounts for half of that. I also refer to Table 9 on page 20 of the reply. This includes the income-related contribution in an overview of the structural herd of older people in the decision-making of the Tax Plan 2015 and 2016. That's very special. A "non-tax measure" is thus included in a tax plan. That's a big step. It looks like it's a real tax now. I'll get back to you on that. Shortly before the introduction of the WUL, the maximum contribution income for the care premium was increased from €32,000 to €50,000. We need to realize that. 5% over €20,000 more is €1,000 structural extra for middle groups among the elderly. By now, the border is almost €53,000. The rate for the income-dependent contribution was reduced from 5.65% to 5% when the WUL was introduced as compensation for the WUL. The 50PLUS Group points out that in this income-related contribution, the cabinet will cancel the compensatory measure at once. It went from 5.65 % to 5% and today it goes from 5% to 5.5%. At the old age discount, we saw the same thing at first. In 2012, therefore, the contribution was reduced from 5.65 % to 5% and now increased again at once. I just told you. We have serious objections to this. This also has to do with a reliable government. I would like to receive an answer from the Minister. The reduced rate of 5.5 % is also 1.25 % lower than the standard rate of 6.75%. A further increase of a further 1.25% remains therefore potential in the pipeline. This would mean a structural burden increase of 400 million and a structural purchasing power drop of 1%. Can the Minister promise that she will not take a decision on a further reduction in the band of 1.25% without having a debate with the House of Representatives? The employer's contribution could then be reduced again. In dealing with the Tax Plan, I asked the Secretary of State for Finance to encourage a new decision to reconsider the decision of 2 December. He replied that the decision would remain in force. We had asked whether it is not contradictory that a ministerial arrangement should be established without the involvement of the House of Representatives, but that the outcome of the General Political Reviews and the General Financial Reviews was still awaited. Is the Minister prepared to reconsider the decision taken? Can she answer that? After the decision taken on 2 December, it may nevertheless take a new decision to reverse the increase. As the implementation of the Decision is already under way, it will be possible by 1 April 2016. The percentage may even be set in such a way as to reverse the increase in the first quarter. We can also see this in the disk changes as of 1 April in connection with the novelle. Cover for the reversal of the increase is possible by the 0.2% reduction in the employer's premium. The employers then receive that amount back through a lower Aof premium, which in fact pays the Treasury. That's the mirror image of the current operation. The 50PLUS Group also looks at the preparation of the 2017 Millions Note. We want the Health Insurance Act to be amended next year so that, for the future, the Minister of VWS can change the existing band of 1.25% between the reduced and normal rate only by law or by AMvB, instead of simply delegation. Is the Minister prepared to submit a legislative proposal which lays down the power to change percentages to the legislator, without delegation? I would like to receive an answer. I would like to refer here to Article 104 of the Constitution, which stipulates that taxes on the Empire are to be levied by law. Other taxes of the Empire are regulated by law, that's what it says. This Constitutional text, in particular the text on state taxes, was adopted by the House of Representatives by a two-thirds majority in the Van Rooijen/Brinkhorst amendment at the time. So it was an amendment to the Constitution, and that is certainly not a sinecure, I understood. It also happened despite the major objections of the then Secretary of State for Finance. Materially, an income-dependent premium of 5.5% to 6.75 % is close to a tax. But formally, it's not a state tax. Under the current law, the Minister can increase the normal rate and thus the reduced rate further, or only the reduced rate. And that is only for the benefit of the Treasury Secretary. The Secretary of State of the United States of America isn't getting anywhere with it. On page 85 of the reply, it is stated that the motive for this increase was not in the care but in the need to put public finances in order. Thus, 300 or 400 million had to be removed from older people andzzp'ers in order to put public finances in order. At the same time, taxes are reduced by 5 billion. So this is about the back of only the elderly. I'm rounding up. If the Minister is not prepared to table a legislative amendment, the 50PLUS Group in the House of Representatives will be able to take the initiative. The 50PLUS Group will propose to reduce the IAB rate from 5.5 % to 5% in any case next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-4.u27	Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case. I'm suspending the meeting for lunch.
