ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u1	I would like to welcome all those present in the Chamber, particularly the Minister of Finance. He is in the Chamber from the beginning of the sitting until 5 p.m. and then has to travel to Brussels in a rush for a meeting there. I hope that we can finish this debate together before 5 p.m. I hope that we will try to take that into account in the interruptions. Let's go see how it goes. I call Mr Merkies.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u2	Mr. Chairman. Well, I guess I'll get started soon then. It recently became known that insurer VIVAT, formerly SNS REAAL, is sold by the government to the Chinese insurer Anbang. First of all, let me say that it is a good thing that a buyer has been found. This provides security to all employees of VIVAT and to all insured persons. I am thinking in particular of those with a life insurance policy. The agreed acquisition price is a poor 150 million and possibly even a negative amount. And that's for a company that had a book value of 2.4 billion last year. SNS REAAL was the insurance leg of SNS, the bank that we had to buy two years ago as a government for a lot of money. We thought we had to put down 3.7 billion for it. By now, this has turned out to be EUR 6.3 billion. Initially, this debate would only address the serious findings expressed in the evaluation report of the Evaluation Committee Nationalisation SNS REAAL. It shows an image that shows that at all stages the Dutch Bank has acted too passively and negligently as a supervisor and by the Ministry of Finance. Of course, I would very much like to hear from the Minister what lessons he has learned from this. And does he agree that the supervisor could operate far too much out of everyone's sight? Can we learn from that so that we do not make the same mistake in the supervision of the ECB? In this context, I would like to refer once again to the recently adopted motion by myself and Mr Omtzigt concerning independent supervision of the ECB. Today, however, I will focus mainly on the new facts that recently came to light when the sale of the insurance leg of SNS was announced. The question is, how could that seem so late out of the closet? The disappointing yield is due, among other things, to an accounting error of no less than EUR 700 million that has already been created in the late 1990s, but has never been noted before. The debt of 700 million from REAAL N.V. to SNS Bank was offset by the current account balance of 800 million from REAAL's subsidiary to SNS Bank, while the same 800 million had already been used as collateral for that debt of 700 million. This accounting error continues to fascinate. Ever REAAL used the slogan "Wrong? Thank you!" in her commercials, but this is about more than one mistake. Can the Minister explain exactly how this major accounting error could go unnoticed for so long? What does this say about the bank's internal control? What does this say about surveillance? How come they haven't noticed this for so long? And what does this say about the audit by the audit firm KPMG, which also approved the annual accounts for years? Why didn't all these parties notice this error? How could it not have been noticed in the thorough screening of the books made at the time of purchase from the bank? Then there was the European stress test, for which SNS, albeit in its heels, succeeded. It's a lot of money. The question is who actually took the fall for it. Didn't we just pay too much? Apparently, the bank was worth a lot less at the time of purchase. We have put 6.3 billion into it and the uncertainties are very great. In this context, I would like to ask the Minister what the possible consequences are of SNS REAAL's unsatisfying policy in dealing with usury policies. Isn't SNS, first with the real estate leg, where everything that could go wrong and then with high costs for unbreaking bank and insurer, the ultimate example that we have to work hard to separate banking activities?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u3	Mr. Chairman. I am talking about a deal of nearly 4 billion and I have 4 minutes to speak; that is 1 billion per minute. The PVV wondered, even in 2013, whether the nationalisation of SNS was necessary at all. After all, there were different scenarios, but the Minister was in a hurry and did not dare to confront the European Commission, while several Dutch major banks were interested in the acquisition of Property Finance. Anyway, that's talking afterwards. The PVV also objected that the 2.5 billion bill went back to the taxpayer. We also discussed mistakes that have now emerged in the evaluation committee. DNB should never have issued the declaration of no objection. Afterwards, DNB acknowledges this as a very big mistake. The State aid of 750 million does not impose any requirements on the winding-down of the real estate portfolio. DNB and the Minister acted too late, making nationalisation inevitable. What has the Minister learned from these mistakes? And why are only the shareholders and the subordinated creditors expropriated, not the senior bondholders? The minister finally had the intervention ladder in his hands to carry out a deep bail-in. Why has the Minister not dared to use these instruments? The PVV also doesn't understand why the entire financial sector doesn't pay for the bill. In the event of bankruptcy, it would have cost the sector 5 billion and now only 1 billion, while the sector made 7 billion profits in 2012. So they could have easily paid for that and with that they could have spared the taxpayer. I'm coming up on the sale of REAAL. 86 parties were approached for an offer. In the end, that resulted in an offer from one party. The PVV wonders which parties have been approached. How were they selected? Why did they finally drop out? Was Anbang also one of those 86 parties, or did Anbang just drop out of the sky? It's all a little thin: one offer from a Chinese club we don't know. Can the Minister go into what kind of company Anbang really is? I understand they've never set foot outside of China and suddenly take over a very big insurance company. Can the Minister assure me that it is not a Chinese supersprinkle that will deal with REAAL with debts and yields and will use it to finance beautiful, risky construction projects? Does he know who he's bringing in? After all, we have seen many times in the past that we were regretting certain clubs afterwards. How is it possible that REAL's capital position has deteriorated in such a short time? At the time of nationalisation REAAL still had a solvency of 200% and now it is only 136%. We also see REAAL's market value falling from 3 billion to 2 billion in two years. How can you explain that? In two years, nearly 1 billion has evaporated. How much capital does REAAL actually need to get healthy again? If that company is worth 2 billion and Anbang pays 150 million, it has a super deal. What is the price based on and is it not far too little? In addition, this 150 million is not even guaranteed, as another price adjustment mechanism applies. What does this mean? Can the price be even lower than the 150 million? I can hardly imagine that. Does Anbang pay 1.3 billion to strengthen the balance sheet or to repay internal loans? With what amount will the balance sheet be strengthened? So what will be the solvency? I see I'm out of time, so I'm rounding off. The minister thinks this deal isn't gonna cost the taxpayer anything. He thinks he can sell the bank for 2.7 billion. That's the book value. He gives REAL away almost for free, but for the bank he can get the book value. At Propertize, the same thing is 500 million. What is this hope based on? If I can believe the letter, the minister thinks he'll even make 52 million. I'm getting a bit of a déjà vu: the previous finance minister thought he was making money from Greece.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u4	Mr. Chairman. I'm sorry I reacted a little late when you gave me the floor, but on the day after the election, your colleagues who have made a nice profit would like to congratulate and to say something nice to those colleagues who may have been a little less fortunate. Mr. Chairman. Today we are not talking about the election results, but about the nationalisation and sale of SNS. I think this is going to be the first debate in a week or three that is not an election debate, and I am actually looking forward to that. First of all, I would like to thank the members of the evaluation committee for their detailed research and clear recommendations. During the reading of the report, the role of the Nederlandsche Bank in particular raised a number of questions for me, and I would like to ask some of them now. For example, DNB recognises that it should not have issued the declaration of no objection to Property Finance and that DNB was guided by the information that SNS itself strengthened at the time. How is it now ensured that this does not happen again? In what way does DNB itself make a substantive and critical assessment in the future? Another conclusion of the evaluation committee is that after the State aid to SNS in 2008, DNB did not send enough to clean-up. In the response of the Nederlandsche Bank, the supervisor does not go into this point at all. How does the Minister feel about that? The supervisor's reaction does not address the comments of the evaluation committee on the integrity issues either. Does the Minister consider that the regulator reflects sufficiently in his response to these two issues? GroenLinks shares the recommendation of the evaluation committee that it would be desirable to restore the governance structure of DNB. The fragmentation of final responsibility is undesirable. What's the Minister's position on this? In his response to the evaluation report, I did not yet experience much enthusiasm for this. Can the minister explain why he's in doubt? Now I'm gonna go into nationalization. In fact, it was already concluded in the first quarter of 2012 that nationalisation was inevitable, but since the Intervention Act was not yet completed, intervention was delayed. The minister was able to use bail-in and that is fine because of the cost to the taxpayer. GroenLinks strongly supports this, but that does not mean that this long waiting period before one began to act also had risks. In the months before the nationalisation, the newspapers were filled with reports about talks that took place between SNS and the Ministry. This might as well have led to major disturbances in the financial market with all the consequences. How does the Minister look back on this? Does he recognize these risks? The report of the evaluation committee shows that the solvency problems in SNS have led to multiple supervisory dilemmas. For example, in 2012, SNS requested a number of internal loans to be rolled through and a number of new internal loans within SNS. According to the supervisor, there were undesirable cash rounds and some of the solvency positions were "baked air'. There was only one conclusion possible from the supervisory division: to remove the relevant loans and to adjust the solvency of SNS REAAL. However, this could not be done from the point of view of financial stability. So according to DNB, there was nothing else to do but grant permission anyway. What lessons does the Minister draw from such supervisory dilemmas? How do we deal with this in the future? To what extent has this decision affected the 700 million hole that emerged from the sale? And here is the most important question: how is it that the Minister was surprised by the disappointing solvency? In De Financieele Dagblad, a few weeks ago, the Minister says: "We have our accountant check whether there is malpractice or an error in accounting." However, the solvency report shows that DNB has been heavily critical of REAAL's solvency position since 2008 and highly critical of internal loans. Has the Minister been informed about this by DNB or does he have any other good explanation for his surprise? I'd like to get a response on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u5	Mr. Chairman. There are two issues on the agenda. I'll start with the nationalization of SNS REAAL. I will then deal more specifically with the insurer REAAL and then with the proposed sale of REAAL. The nationalisation of SNS REAAL was a major event in the history of the Dutch financial sector. Two books have been written about this, entitled The Fall of SNS Real and Toxic Credit. In addition, the Hoekstra/Frijns committee has produced a detailed report describing very precisely what has been done by the various actors at what time. For the PvdA Group, it is good to continue to agree that the Management Board and the Supervisory Board are responsible for the operation of a company and that they have failed. They have acted recklessly and this is reflected in the findings of the evaluation committee. The evaluation committee also makes a number of recommendations. The Minister has taken over many of them. The De Wit Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry has paid great attention to the extent to which clean ships have been made. It has also made critical comments. On this basis, the House of Representatives asked the Hoekstra/Frijns Committee to investigate the integrity of SNS REAAL. The committee did this. It remains shocking to read that within SNS there were links with Dutch top crime. The PvdA Group would like to hear from the Minister about the consequences of this finding. Are these criminals being prosecuted, arrested and locked up? How about this? We do not accept a slack attitude towards the criminals who have put our bank at risk with fraud. The committee has raised a number of issues: the reflection on trigger moments where there has always been a supervisory dilemma and the dilemmas that with a supervisory decision of the Nederlandsche Bank can eventually lead to unrest in the financial markets. How is this now regulated within the BRRD and how is the comparison with the legislation in America? The position of the trustee is proposed by the committee. The Minister will respond to that. He writes that he will give NLFI a different role in this, but what exactly that role is and how it relates to the government commissioner, and is not clear. I come to my third point. I speak faster than usual, because we have two debates in one and I have little time. That point concerns the role of the advisors; Morgan Stanley, Allen & Overy, Pels Rijcken, Cushman & Wakefield only from Finance..................................................................................................................................... The committee is right to ask to what extent these advisers are working properly. It is logical that external advisors are hired, but eventually at ABN we saw that La Salle gave a special appreciation. Here too, 700 million has been overlooked. How does the Minister look back on that? What is the future model for hiring consultants? They're expensive people and it's a question of whether they're delivering value for money and whether they need so much of it. Shouldn't the Treasury get more knowledge? The insurance company went on the take-over path. As DNB writes: they were unwanted rounds of cash in the long run and partly fried air with which they financed it. Property Finance got worse and the bank got under pressure. The Management Board and the Supervisory Board fully recognised the situation. They acted as if there was little going on and if one could continue. Nationalisation followed, also with REAAL, in a difficult market with low interest rates, usury policies and low capital. Has DNB exercised adequate supervision to have sufficient capital at the time of nationalisation? Then there's the sale. The PvdA puts the importance of the insured and pensioners first. We do want a better overview of the exact solvency position of REAAL. The ratios of Solvency I and II are mentioned, but they are mixed and a comparison is not possible. We asked for this in the written procedure. I'd love to have that. The letter doesn't contain much information on solvency. There is a strong buffer in REAL. We recognize that Anbang is investing, but the question is whether that buffer is that strong. There are also uncertainties about how this will develop in the future. Finally, the position of Anbang. What role does Anbang see for himself? Is there any willingness to invest new capital in REAL if this is necessary for the benefit of insured persons and pensioners? What position does Anbang take as a company or investor on the Dutch insurance market? Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for your coulance, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u6	You shouldn't have said that, but you spoke so quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u7	Mr. Chairman. The VVD supports the proposed sale of REAAL, because insurance is not a public task as far as we are concerned and in a competitive market sector there are no state-owned companies. The Chinese insurer Anbang wants to invest in REAAL while strengthening REAAL's financial position. That's what needed to be done. This means that there is more clarity and certainty for the holders of six million policies and for the employees. The VVD wonders whether the capital injection of 1 billion will ultimately be sufficient. What happens if this amount is insufficient? The PvdA asked about that, too. The VVD also wants to know what agreements have been made about the continued existence of REAAL as an independent unit within the Anbang group. The price offered is disappointing, but ultimately it is a question of supply and demand. Of course, the VVD wants as much of the tax money as possible to come back. We are counting on the Minister to work on this in the follow-up. Then I come to the mistakes that were found at the end of 2013 due to a connection in the current account structure. The VVD cannot actually believe that an amount of 700 million has been overlooked before or during nationalisation. Actually, I can't reach that. How is that possible? What's the role of the accountant? Why didn't the Dutch Bank see this? Why didn't the minister's advisor or the finance department itself see this? Research will be carried out, but to what extent does the audit service of the Empire have sufficient knowledge and experience to investigate this? When will this investigation be completed? When will the House of Representatives be informed about this? As far as the VVD is concerned, the bottom stone has to come up. If mistakes have been made by the accountant or consultant, the VVD considers that the Minister should act hard.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u8	Mrs De Vries says that she cannot really see that this has happened. That suggests that people knew. Is that Mrs De Vries' suggestion? She says there's got to be some serious action. What does that material mean?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u9	I didn't want to wake up any suggestion. I've expressed my surprise that apparently it hasn't been discovered. I'm asking why parties didn't see that. I shall come back to that second point in a moment, which I think should be done, but we believe that this research should be carried out first. If mistakes have been made by the accountant or consultant, the VVD considers that the Minister should act hard and that the money paid for the assignment should be paid back at least, and that, for example, disciplinary law should be applied, if appropriate. When will the legislative proposal on extending the limitation period of disciplinary law for accountants for which we have argued come to the Chamber? The sale of REAAL is a first concrete step to bring nationalised financial institutions back to the normal market situation. The VVD welcomes this first step, as it is in favour of it, but wants the next steps to ABN AMRO, ASR and SNS to be taken quickly and responsibly. What's the timeline for this? When will the House of Representatives receive concrete proposals? Today we are also discussing the evaluation of the nationalisation of SNS REAAL. The VVD is satisfied with the clear and critical report of the Frijns Committee. Monitoring has essentially failed. That's a serious point. However, effective supervision is too often confused with much supervision and many rules. As far as the VVD is concerned, it is about better supervision and better rules. We need monitoring that reacts alertly, dares to grab the instruments that are there and also dares to use them. The monitoring dilemma is visible throughout the entire route at SNS. The regulator believes that action should be taken, but does not do so because of the possible reaction from the market, which can speed up the process to the abyss. The only solution for the VVD is to take early and firm action. How can the regulator effectively do that with the existing instruments? And are the grounds for change in mergers sufficient for the regulator to intervene properly? For the VVD, the condition is that clear requirements are imposed after state aid, which are also implemented. The Minister would clean up after the state aid, but that was not enough in the end. Why didn't that really happen and not really go through with it? The Ministry has not responded with caution in various situations either, the Committee says. What guarantees can the Minister offer to do better in the future? And what has the Ministry, or the Minister himself, learned from this trajectory? The Minister sometimes seems more lenient than the Frijns Committee, and my group finds that striking. Mr Frijns said earlier that the Intervention Act is a slide towards nationalisation. Why doesn't the Minister say so? When will the House of Representatives be presented with the implementing law of the European Directive on Recovery and Resolution? How does this directive ensure that such dossiers do not become a slide towards nationalisation? And how are the recommendations taken into account in the evaluation of the Intervention Act?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u10	Mr. Chairman. Today we look back and forward to insurance company REAAL, a company that now has about 6 million policies and 4,000 employees. But I'd like to go back to where REAL came from. It was a small insurance company of the unions. The employees saved at the bank, insured themselves and made sure they had pensions. So what happened when you look back on the past few years? In 1997, REAAL became part of the SNS REAAL group. The adage became "REALly arranges it all." The bank insurer should grow and broaden. At the beginning of 2013, it became painfully clear what this takeover had led to. It had become delusion of grandeur, in which, unfortunately, irresponsible risk-taking was put at the heart of the matter. Real estate investments were made that drove the once proud bank-insurer to the edge of the abyss. SNS REAAL was nationalized. The bank and the insurer are split up. Now REAL must be brought back to the market. The question is, how did it all come to this? The Frijns/Hoekstra Committee examined this in a detailed report. For the ChristianUnion Group, it is clear that the primary responsibility for the course of events lies with SNS REAAL, the Board of Directors and the Supervisory Board. The report also outlines a picture of a supervisor who was involved at close range, but has nevertheless waited a long time, perhaps too long, to intervene, even when it appeared that the Management Board was unable to make the necessary changes. Why has SNS REAAL been able to muddy for three years after the extension of State aid in 2008 without the DNB intervention? For me, this is a central question from the evaluation. Today we must also consider the sale of REAAL. This sale comes at a time when the insurance market is in severe weather, partly due to the low interest rates and the collapse of the life insurance market. The solvency of REAAL is dramatically poor and has not complied with the internal minimum standard of 175% for some time. In 2013, there was also a setback of some EUR 700 million in pledges; colleagues of mine have already spoken about it. The Minister points to the Nederlandsche Bank and to the accountant KPMG. But is it also being investigated why the expensive advisors that the minister hired at the time didn't find out about this mistake? That is what they were for, so I ask the Minister a little euphemistically. Does he recognize that? And does he see any possibility of recovering the damage resulting from this? The answer to the question of guilt must be clear; it must be examined. Why did the Minister order the Audit Service to investigate this? Mrs De Vries has already asked for this. I'm very curious about this choice. He didn't seem very logical to me, but maybe there's a very good reason. I'd love to hear it. The new Solvency II standards mean that a substantial new recapitalisation will have to take place. Anbang, the only party left for the purchase of REAAL, has indicated that it wants to invest around 700 million to 1 billion to restore that solvency. The Minister states that a solvency ratio of 140% to 150% will be created. What is leading, the ratio from 140% to 150% or the maximum that Anbang is willing to offer: 700 million to 1 billion? What is crucial for the Dutch Bank in the consideration of whether or not to issue a statement of no objection? Finally, I ask what will happen if this sale does not take place. The minister writes a cryptic phrase: "Then they will have to arrange solvency in a different way." But how are we supposed to do that? So what are the scenarios and what does that ultimately mean for all those policy holders and employees? I'd like a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u11	Mr. Chairman. As has already been said, four minutes is short to talk about a billion-nationalisation, a 400-page report and a proposed sale to Anbang, which raises some questions. I will try to pick out a few things that my colleagues have dealt with in part and which I have some questions about. In any case, I agree with all the questions I have heard so far. I haven't heard a question that I think isn't worth asking. Sometimes you have that, sometimes you just want to intervene on another side. The report sketches a rather staggering picture of what happened around the expansion drive of SNS REAAL and what time it occurred. The CDA Group has spoken several times about how undesirable it is to recreate megabanks that are "too big to fail." We are more in favour of diffusion with smaller and more manageable banks. The question is how easy it is to split something, although a financial group is now being split up, but it is easy to prevent it. In the latest report of the Dutch Bank, this is also advocated. Is the Minister convinced that until we have formed a clear opinion, we should temporarily proceed to a merger stop for the 130 banks now under ECB supervision? The other recommendations on supervisory supervision and governance are important, but significant steps have already been taken. The preparation of recovery and resolution plans is a good example of this. For the CDA, the main thing is that taxpayers should no longer take the brunt of falling banks directly. The owners of risky capital must. In this way, we ensure that people who take that risk experience both the lusts and the burden of that risk, instead of having only the lusts and the taxpayers the burden. I'm on the sale of SNS REAAL. I'd like to have that piece worked out. We understand the Audit Service Empire. He knows how to track things. It is better to use the Audit Service Empire than to opt for a committee of inquiry for the 700 million. But I would like to know exactly who all missed that 700 million mistake in the books. That didn't happen for one year, it took more than ten years. Which research committees, supervisors and expensive consultants have missed all this? Has there ever been anyone who did notice the error and report it? If not, will liability be repeated? We are constantly talking about usury policies and raises. The customers of banks and insurers are currently paying the full price for what has gone wrong in the financial sector. Is someone gonna pay the price for 700 million misbooked and leave that for ten years? Is KPMG really being dealt with? Or are you just getting paid well as an accountant and isn't it a problem if you miss something? If that is still the case, now that the banking crisis is going on for five to six years, then the CDA Group concludes that we have not learned enough. With the sale of REAAL we ended up with a relatively unknown Chinese party. We see risks. There is no published annual accounts; or does the Minister have them? Adoption by DNB will be difficult. Is there a plan B ready if the statement of no objection from DNB doesn't come? What will the Minister do in that case? Do you need extra money? Selling with a negative value means giving it to someone and giving in money. Is that an option? If so, how did we get there? I agree with Mr Van Dijck's question as to whether SNS and Property are really going to make so much money. My final question concerns ASR: how come ASR has dropped out as a potential buyer? Was ASR, in government hands, allowed to make a bid on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u12	I don't quite understand that last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u13	Was ASR, in government hands thus indirectly owned by the Minister of Finance, allowed to bid on behalf of all of us or were there blockades? How did that process go?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u14	Mr. Chairman. The nationalisation of SNS marked a change in thinking: the person taking the risk must also bear that risk. This principle has now been anchored and developed at European level. Bail-in has become the norm and the law. I would like to raise three specific points today: the recommendations of the evaluation committee, the monitoring dilemma at megabanks and the sale of REAAL. First of all, I would like to thank the Frijns/Hoekstra Committee for the comprehensive factual account and for the recommendations. It's a good and solid report that we can learn a lot from. Many of the committee's recommendations have now actually done something, partly national but partly European. I refer to a European resolution mechanism, stricter capital requirements for banks and a directive on recovery and resolution. There is now a strengthened legal framework. I do have a question about this, because the BRRD applies to banks but not to insurers. What exactly are we going to do with this? Thanks to the crisis, we are also aware of the importance of system monitoring. DNB warned in 2008 about so-called macro-prudential risks, but the policy translation remained out. In the meantime, a branch has been set up at the Nederlandsche Bank and a European Systemic Risk Board will also be set up. We are therefore on the right track. However, there are still some gaps to close. The origin of the problems at SNS REAAL was in 2006, when too easy a declaration of no objection was issued for takeovers. It is important that we learn the right lessons from this. I have often mentioned here that it is essential that we avoid the emergence of megabanks, banks that are too complex to settle and where, despite the new European framework, the supervisor does not dare to maintain strictly, also because of the fear of disruption of financial stability if that bank is really in trouble.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u15	Would Mr Koolmees agree that the Minister of Finance should be committed to a very strict policy on the issue of declarations of no objection leading to megabanks?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u16	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u17	I read more or less the operative part of the Omtzigt/Merkies motion. I am therefore surprised that D66 voted against it, because this was exactly the operative part. D66 says in messages from NU.nl that it is against megabanks and so on, but when it comes to it, D66 votes against such a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u18	Mr President, has Mr Merkies read the whole motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u19	No, the operative part. Mr Merkies, perhaps you could also read out the recitals?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u20	I think that is where the stinger is sitting, but Mr Merkies is running away now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u21	No, he needs to get his glasses. I invite him to read the text of the entire motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u22	Usually, I've written more motions. "Considering that the Banking Union could lead to a consolidation of European banks; whereas banks that are "too big to fail" are one of the causes of the financial crisis and that new formation of megabanks should be avoided'. D66 can't be against those two considerations, can it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u23	Is that the whole motion, Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u24	Is this the whole motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u25	"Asks the Dutch Government to commit itself to a very strict policy when it comes to issuing a statement of no objection to bank mergers that result in megabanks."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u26	I totally agree with this. In fact, I asked the Minister myself that last time. That must then be settled in the Antonveneta Directive. The Minister is working on this in order to prevent the emergence of megabanks. I believe that I myself have tabled such a motion and that it has also been adopted.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u27	I just understood from Mr Omtzig that he is retabled our joint motion today. Maybe D66 can vote in favour of the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u28	I think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u29	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u30	I will continue on this point. We also saw this happen at SNS REAAL. The report shows that the Nederlandsche Bank has been in favour of a supervisory dilemma several times. The Bank did not dare to strictly enforce the rules for fear of compromising financial stability. Last week, the President of the Nederlandsche Bank called for an upper limit on the size of European banks. Indeed, the banking union creates an environment of mergers and acquisitions, and then things can move quickly if things improve economically. When issuing a declaration of no objection to a merger or acquisition, the ECB should make an explicit assessment thereof. I'll give it to you, Mr Merkies! I would like to hear from the Minister whether any progress has been made in this area and in particular in the negotiations on the Antonveneta Directive. Finally, the sale of REAAL. The procedure for regulatory approval, both Dutch and Chinese, is ongoing. We will have to wait and see, but I would like to make one specific point now. The Minister states in the letter on the sale of REAAL that the insurer's financial position is worse than thought due to the interlinkage of mutual loans. This only came to light after nationalisation when an externally hired auditor checked the annual figures. This is very similar to a problem previously raised by SNS, which is also mentioned in the Committee's report. That report even contains a heading "internal loans are problematic'. This involved the loans from REAAL and SNS Bank to the holding company partly as a result of the acquisition of Swiss life and AXA. The report says literally: the solvency positions were partly hot air. Mr Klaver also read this quote. How can it be that not all internal wefts came to light at that time and that the accountant did not mention it earlier? The Audit Service is now going to investigate further. In the written questioning round, my group asked, among other things, who should be held responsible and whether it is also an explicit part of the investigation that the general audit service is going to do. No clear answer has been given to this. I'm asking the Minister to do this after all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u31	This brought an end to the first term on the part of the Chamber. The Minister has indicated that he would like to prepare himself for his reply and that is why I am suspending the sitting.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u32	Mr. Chairman. For the sake of time, I will not make a detailed introduction, but I do attach great importance to the fact that we can discuss this matter well with each other. It is a major intervention, namely the nationalisation of one of our largest banks. This is also a big money issue. It is therefore our duty to justify this, and of course the sale, to the bottom. This is the purpose of this debate. Mrs Schouten explicitly looked back on the history of SNS REAAL. This company originated from the trade union system, from De Centrale and Concordia. Somewhere in its history, not so long ago, this company has completely lost that connection to its history. If somewhere the expression applies that it is strong legs that can carry the wealth, then it is in this company. There was a period of great wealth for SNS REAAL after a lot of money was collected with an IPO. The company's management at the time felt that there was a need for very expansionary action. During that period, major risks have been taken. That was true for the insurance company. All kinds of takeovers have taken place there, especially in the real estate field. What was once a sound and healthy company was wasted at that time. I think that's how we need to see it. There are a lot of questions to ask. I too would like to express my gratitude to Mr Hoekstra and Mr Frijns for the work they have done. As far as I am concerned, it was almost a standard work on the degeneration of the Dutch financial sector. It's... readable. Some of the points raised some questions. Those questions have just been asked. For example, the statement of no objection to the acquisition of Property Finance was discussed. This has been one of the vulnerable events. It took place in 2006. A declaration of no objection was indeed issued by DNB. DNB is now saying that this should not have happened at the time, and certainly not now. Some Members of the Chamber have asked how it is now ensured that this will not happen again. Mr Klaver in particular asked for this. This happened in 2006. Since then, a lot has changed at the Nederlandsche Bank. In his response to the report by Mr Hoekstra and Mr Frijns, DNB also gave an overview of all the changes made by the bank in the supervision of the banks. I believe that this overview shows that there is a fundamentally different way of monitoring than in the period around 2006. This concerns effectiveness, quality, availability and reliability of data. Next, another step has been taken with the launch of the Banking Union, where there is a more distant supervisor at European level, in a positive sense. The supervisor looks extremely closely at and assesses risks in banks. We impose stricter requirements on risks within banks, which the supervisor also translates into capital ratios. We make demands on banks about resolvability and so on, and so on. So in the future this will also be different. It is no longer up to the Dutch Bank to make such a statement of no objection. SNS is one of the banks now under European supervision. In the future, a statement of no objection will be issued by the ECB, of course with the advice of the Netherlands Bank. I have also been asked what the Ministry has learned from nationalization and evaluation. Many of the lessons have, of course, been drawn from this case before. I am not saying this in order to take into account what has happened or not to take the recommendations seriously, but many of the recommendations that see on top of it are much more closely monitored, and earlier action where it is necessary and possible has, of course, already been taken by the De Wit Committee and have already been implemented in various forms of legislation. Not least, this applies to supervisory rules, as I have just said. In general, therefore, many of the lessons are very recognizable and still valid. Those lessons are still being implemented in our daily actions. For example, an important point was the degree of interlinkage within the group. That was a real complication. The various parts of SNS REAAL were very intertwined, so it was not possible to unbreak the company and sell or separate parts at the time that was desired and we had not yet reached nationalisation. This once again underlines the importance of recovery and resolution plans. We are working on that now, especially at the big banks. These plans make it possible to break up, if there are risks, if things go wrong, to separate the bad parts, to deal with them, and so on, regardless of the instruments we have now been given at European level, such as the deep bail-in. I will come back to that in a moment. Then I come to the point of cleaning up. When SNS REAAL received capital support from the government for the first time in 2008, the then government said that SNS REAAL will clean up. If you look at how it ended at the beginning of 2013, then the impression is that that did not happen, but I have to make a comment. The biggest problems that led to the acute problem in 2013 were on the insurance side, on life insurance, and on real estate. In fact, the biggest problems did not arise until after 2008. When we talked about cleaning up in 2008, we didn't talk about huge problems in the real estate or on the insurance side, because the biggest problems didn't come until the years after. That does not mean that what could and should have been done in the group was done optimally. That's where Hoekstra and Frijns focus. They say: you should put a government trust there in the future that will really make sure that there is a clean house. Let me say first of all that I hope I am not going through this kind of situation anymore, but now we are approaching the banks in a completely different way. If there are problems with banks, we will put the account back in a very different way in the financial sector. But of course we now also have NLFI, which, as the manager of the shares, oversees the policy that is being pursued within the companies. We now also have a European Commission, which, in the case of state aid, imposes very strict, precise and very binding what needs to be done about restructuring. We have experienced this very emphatically with SNS REAAL. The European Commission will also appoint a trustee to monitor and supervise this process. So if we ever find ourselves in such a situation again, I hesitate to designate an additional government trust alongside the trustee appointed by the European Commission, as well as the supervision by the European Central Bank and alongside NLFI, who will act as a shareholder in a nationalisation. I do understand the criticism of the evaluation committee on the phenomenon of "State Commissioner." We have phased that out too. That sounds a little ugly because it's about people, but the phenomenon "state commissioner" is almost gone. We have another one at DNB at the moment. I like that because we have a special and intensive relationship with DNB. There it has an added value.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u33	I have a question about cleaning up and the conditions that have been laid down. The Minister is right to say that the problems with the insurer and the other problems came later, but cleaning up was mainly concerned with the integrity of the organisation. Then let us look at the course of time. DNB assessed all banks and said: there is actually no proper supervision at all. REAL scored the weakest. Then five years passed. Eventually we have a nationalized SNS REAAL and 30 people have to be fired because they are just corrupt or I know what didn't do. So that just didn't happen, but it was pointed out at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u34	In the current situation we no longer tolerate that weaknesses such as within SNS REAAL, which were already known at that time by DNB and which DNB had already pointed out several times but had not been dealt with, will continue to exist. That's what's in all sorts of cases. I have just indicated that supervision is now working very differently. However, one can also think of the suitability and reliability on which both directors and supervisors are repeatedly reviewed internally. The way in which we now look at the banking sector and put it in order is therefore much more compelling and far more profound. We have lost that restraint. There are even people who think that we should be a little more restrained, but I am not yet convinced of that. We have to establish together that that was really a different time. At that time much more direct action should have been taken on the quality of internal control, business management and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u35	We agree on this: too late has been cleaned up in terms of integrity, in fact just criminal activities. Then I'll come to the solution. The committee suggests a trustee. I understand the Minister when he says that we already have NLFI and we are phasing out the Commissioners. However, I am curious to see how the state participations that we still have, which include government commissioners who are being phased out or not, relate to this new point of attention of keeping to the commitments made with the government. Does NLFI do so or does the trustee do so, as at REAAL? What happens when the government commissioners are phased out? Who's gonna do it? What do the guarantee of public interests as a shareholder and the conditions we have set, as well as supervision, look like in practice? That's gotten pretty complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u36	I don't know if it's complicated. What would in any case be complicated is if we put another layer or figure between it, namely the government trust. That's not why I'm here. Again, NLFI is the manager of the shares and supervises the way the company is managed, what the results are et cetera. In short, NLFI ensures that the company is carefully managed and operated from the shareholder's perspective. The Ministry of Finance oversees the implementation of the further commitments from restructuring to privatisation in the portfolios that now include insurers and banks. I do not need to put that at too much distance, if only because the Chamber is very direct to me. What are you doing with those banks? So that responsibility lies with Finance. The European Commission has also appointed a trustee. The Commission has said: okay, you can nationalise SNS REAAL, but then you have to restructure, split, sell and so on. A trustee from the Commission therefore follows closely whether that process really is going that way. Once again, from these different roles we are on top of it, without having to create a new figure. There should be no misunderstanding about the government commissioner. The reason why I'm not so enthusiastic about that is that I think it's too complicated. Every Commissioner, as stated in the Civil Code, has the role of serving the continuity and interests of the company. We think or perhaps have thought that we could put a Commissioner there as a sort of forward-looking post from the Minister. However, the Commissioner may end up in the conflicting situation of: do I now serve here the importance of the continuity of the company or the interest of the shareholder, the minister? We shouldn't have that mix-up, and that's why I'm not so excited about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u37	I would just like to comment on the statement of no objection. It has now happened a few times that the Dutch Bank has issued a declaration of no objection, which we all concluded afterwards that this should not have happened. Now we see that with Property Finance, but cutting up and tearing up ABN AMRO was actually not a good idea either. At that time, the Dutch Bank was hiding behind the Antonveneta Directive: we would have preferred no statement of objection, but we had to. Now the vvgb goes to European level. The Dutch Bank has nothing more to say about it. Next time a crown jewel of the Netherlands is tackled, cut up and taken over by aggressive investors, we all look at Frankfurt and hope that no statement of no objection will be made. On the basis of which criteria would the ECB not have issued a statement of no objection in the specific case of Property Finance? What instruments does the ECB have to say: that was or is not a good idea, so we are not approving it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u38	In the hypothetical situation that the ECB should now assess this application from SNS REAAL to purchase Property Finance, the ECB would consider the macro and micro impact on financial stability. The question is whether the company can cope with this in terms of risks. If you look back on that, you have to say that this portfolio wasn't exactly risk-free. There was one reason why she was moved from one person to another. Eventually, SNS REAAL was so eager to buy that wallet. There were risks, it was not the safest property portfolio in the Netherlands. Furthermore, the ECB might have asked whether SNS REAAL had the expertise to become a large real estate manager. This was a completely new area for the company at the time. So one is moving into a new field, what risks already have in it.... can you actually handle that? It also appears to be a portfolio with more than average risks and so on. That would really be a reason to advise not to.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u39	Okay, but you don't have guarantees. They don't have any tough criteria why they can't. It's still a bit of a subjective story. The Bouwfonds used to be with ABN. Whether those risks are with ABN or SNS, risks are risks. I am concerned about the fact that the law will no longer be issued by DNB, but by the ECB, making it even more flexible. After all, at ABN we actually stood with our backs against the wall, but we couldn't block it, because we had done the same with Antonveneta. In other words, isn't it going to be a lot more bureaucratic, which means that we are actually even more at the mercy of aggressive takeovers than if we were to do so in our own home now?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u40	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Of course it is subjective, in the sense that it is not possible to determine 100% black and white in advance. The type of acquisition, investment or restructuring is determined in each case. On that basis, the supervisor will say whether he thinks this is justified. It will therefore vary on a case-by-case basis. If you want to hear from me that takeovers are banned from now on, the answer is obviously not yes. This is considered on a case-by-case basis; this is how it works in the economy. There is nothing against that in itself. Mr Van Dijck brought in the Antonveneta Directive and ABN AMRO, but he must realise that ABN AMRO had no protection structure at all at the time. This is a very topical discussion with a view to the IPO of ABN, which we are now preparing and on which I will inform the Chamber shortly. One of the main concerns, including this Chamber, will undoubtedly be the protection structure for ABN AMRO. But it wasn't there at the time, because it was lifted on the initiative of ABN AMRO itself. Get rid of it, no more need. It was different times; we're really looking at that quite differently now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u41	I'd like to return to the grounds for refusal. In my view, there are only a very limited number of grounds on which we can really refuse. If there is no reason to do so, the supervisor cannot refuse. Are these grounds for refusal sufficient to ensure that a supervisor can say no to these cases in the near future? Or could DNB have said no at the time on the basis of the grounds for refusal?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u42	The opinion of DNB's current supervisory director is that DNB should have refused to do so at the time. That judgment seems very clear to me. That really has to do with risks. On the one hand, these are the risks in the portfolio and, on the other hand, the specific risks for SNS REAAL, which had no experience in managing such a large property portfolio. But you are right: grounds for refusal are, of course, limited. You can't just say no, and that's a good thing. At least I think that the VVD doesn't want takeovers to be blocked by a regulator: "No, we're not for that either. Why? Doesn't matter." That's got to be motivated. It's not like every takeover is bad from now on. Let's not go through with that. Both Mr Klaver and Mr Nijboer have asked for integrity. We just talked about that. In addition to what I have just said about this, I can say that DNB now has, within its supervisory arm, a division dedicated to the integrity, culture, behaviour, business models and strategies of banks. It looks down into the boardroom of banks at what culture is and how one deals with integrity; this in addition to the review of directors I mentioned earlier. This whole theme has now been given a very different position within the Nederlandsche Bank. It is interesting to note that there is an enormous international demand for the expertise developed by the Nederlandsche Bank. People from that department tell in Canada, Frankfurt and the US how the Dutch Bank is handling this. Many people find it far-reaching, but they also find it very interesting.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u43	I asked what happened to the people who...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u44	I'll get to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u45	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u46	I'll get that right away. The cases against ex-workers of Property Finance who have committed non-intelligent acts are still ongoing and are now being dealt with by the Public Prosecutor's Office. It is expected that the big fish, which have had a lot of attention in the media, will occur after the summer. The witness interviews are ongoing right now. In addition, there are a number of smaller cases. After the summer we expect to see more of that in front of the screens. I would like to touch on the point made in the report by Hoekstra and Frijns, which deals with the final responsibility within the management of DNB. The governance of DNB was adapted and strengthened in 2012, strengthening the role of the Supervisory Director. He has been made the primary responsibility and is the primary point of contact for supervisory matters. This is without prejudice to the fact that the Executive Board of DNB, chaired by the President, remains jointly responsible for the supervision of the financial sector. I think this is an improvement. I am not in favour of getting back to that now. I think that it is now very clear and clear that the director is in charge of that point, but that the management as a whole is responsible. This is a good check and balance. However, in the light of the Banking Union, we have re-examined governance. That is also my reaction to the report by Hoekstra and Frijns. We are going to look at this governance and the organisation of the bank's governance and its structure, because it has to be done as a result of the banking union. This led to the bank's supervisory board deciding to reduce the management to four persons. That was also possible because of Mrs Kellermann's departure. The portfolio distribution within the Executive Board has been adjusted. Soon, the proposals will perhaps come to the Court of Justice, which is already there about the suspension of the national resolution authority within the bank. One of the directors is specifically appointed for this purpose. The structure of the bank has also been adapted, extending its supervisory divisions to seven, which is one-on-one in line with the structure of the ECB's supervisory leg. So a number of things have changed very recently. We also included the findings of Mr Hoekstra and Mr Frijns. In the years prior to nationalisation, the supervisor has devoted a lot of time and attention to SNS. One might have had to intervene harder and sooner. For example, in the board of SNS REAAL; Frijns and Hoekstra have found this also.................................................................................................................................................................................................................. That has happened in those years, by the way. In the same period, however, the markets deteriorated very rapidly. This brings me to the important issue of the balance compensation scheme, or 700 million. Maybe I should say, before going into all the specific questions, that we have not lost the 700 million or that 700 million of taxpayers have been wasted. It has to be seen that the solvency figures, as they were presented, were not correct. There was, and exists, an amount of 700 million, but that was pawned. The moment it's pawned, you can't take it with you as a technical provision for all the obligations you have to your insured persons. For the purposes of these obligations to your insured persons, you must always show that you have enough money, that you can fulfil those obligations. If you have already pledged 700 million to the bank, you cannot have it freely to meet your obligations to your insured persons. The solvency was therefore worse than it was presented. That's what's going on with the 700 million. I say it so emphatically because the debate on it gives the impression that 700 million has been wasted and disappeared; there is a question as to how this can be done. But it's not like that. It's an incorrect presentation of solvency. In fact, the solvency was just worse than we thought. At the same time, when we took over the matter, in other words, at nationalization, solvency was already worse than we could see. Many questions have been asked about this, which I shall now address. If you look back on that, it's like this. REAAL's life insurance leg owed 800 million euros to a domestic bank account with the bank. At the same time, REAAL, the parent company of SR Leven, the life insurance company, had borrowed 700 million from the bank. Balance compensation is also permitted. That's not where the problem is. That means that because it is within a holding company, you can, as it were, strike it out against each other. This is called the "balance compensation scheme'. That is allowed, and that has already happened in the 1990s. Later, in the early 2000s we are now going to reconstruct exactly how, where and when the pawn was added. From that moment on, the presentation of solvency was no longer correct. That has not been seen for years, not by the company itself, unless it has been done consciously, but that should then be demonstrated by the research. Nor has it been seen by the accountant, unless he has deliberately looked another way, but that should then be demonstrated by the investigation. Finally, on the basis of the figures presented and the audit report, it was not seen by the Nederlandsche Bank either. How and why are we investigating now? Many spokesmen have asked questions about that investigation. Mr Koolmees asked what exactly I am going to investigate. That investigation should answer the following questions. Firstly, it must answer the question of the history of the balance compensation system, of this structure. How did this construction come about, where and when did the pawning take place and so on? A second question is how interested parties, first and foremost the company itself, SNS REAAL, the accountant, the Netherlands Bank, the State, at some point as shareholder, but also the consultants.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Did they do the right thing, et cetera? Thirdly, it has been asked whether further steps are needed, such as legal proceedings on liability and so on. That's the contents of the investigation. With the ADR we are now working on the precise design. Some spokesmen have said: it is fine to let the ADR do that. Others have said: why the ADR? I mean, it's really accountant work. You really need to reconstruct the books in and back in time. So we're looking at the exact design now. In any case, the ADR will keep the overview and monitoring of the investigation from the government. It may be that outsiders are hired. By the way, many speakers have asked critical questions about the amount of external hire and so on. Here we want the ADR to do it itself and then I get the question whether the ADR can do it and whether we cannot hire externally. My approach is that I would like to put the ADR in charge of the investigation. If external forces need to be involved, this can always be done. In any case, we must ensure that we get this matter over the water as much as possible. I don't know if that's gonna work, either. It's going a pretty long way back in time, so we really need to dive into the archives. Maybe we need to restart computer systems that are now in the basement. You know the examples. I'm just kidding, Mr. Chairman. We're gonna reconstruct it as best we can.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u47	To correct something, it has not been my intention to plead for external hire. I was more concerned about how the Minister came to the audit committee, but that part was clear. The pawning came to light at some point. The Minister himself writes that this was when he had to approve the annual accounts. He had the books looked at by an independent accountant and by financial advisors and this came out of it. Why is it necessary to make such a long journey, if you do know that this error has occurred at any time? It is known that, as they say, a mistake has been made. I think we all agree with that. Then you can also quite quickly simply ask: why was this chosen and why did it never end up in the books?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u48	This was first reported to me in October, November 2013. We looked for a solution in November. In December, although briefly, I reported to the Chamber that we had a problem, that was resolved. It didn't require any additional capital injection, which is why I briefly reported it to the Chamber. If it needed extra money, I would've made it bigger. Then we immediately said to SNS REAAL: we really want to know how this happened, because for years the solvency of the insurance leg has been misrepresented. SNS REAAL, with the mitigating circumstance that the net was in the middle of nationalization, restructuring and the sale of REAAL, has also started internal research into how and where this could have arisen. We have been informed about this, but I do not yet have the final answer. I don't think it's enough to say: now I understand it and now I know where it came from. So we are going to investigate this further under the guidance of the ADR. It is therefore not the case that nothing has happened in the past year. SNS REAAL has already listed the facts as well as possible, but it is not complete yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u49	That is good, because my surprise was that it was known in October 2013 and we are now a year and a half further and there is about to be an investigation. So it's good to hear that this is a long way from being upset. But, of course, at the time of nationalisation, several advisers also looked at these books.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u50	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u51	Then why didn't the minister just ask those advisers why they didn't see it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u52	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u53	You don't have to go over that one and a half years of research, do you?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u54	No, you shouldn't. In itself, no book research has been carried out at nationalization. Here's how it's gonna go. On the basis of an opinion from the Netherlands Bank, we assess the group's position and the need for capital injections etc. We have made available guarantees and bridging loans to remove the group from the abyss and maintain it. This was done on the basis of an analysis of the capital needs, which is done by DNB. DNB has always based its opinions on the figures of the group and the auditor who looked at them. As far as I know, DNB has not previously known that the solvency figures had been pumped up and were, in fact, not supported by sufficient provisions. That's what I know about it now. I hope you'll give me time to find out who knew when or should have known and so on. At least we didn't find out until we finally established the annual figures. Then the alarm bells went off. I was informed about this in October 2013.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u55	I'd like to continue with that solvency. I find it very worrying that the solvency of a group may appear to be lower than expected and that this is not noted either by the accountant or by advisers or by the supervisor. My question is: what is the risk that this will not be seen in other groups or seen in the past?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u56	It's hard to say in itself. I think DNB is asking the same question. Here, at SNS REAAL, a lot of risks have been taken. Many of you asked about that passage in the report by Hoekstra and Frijns, which also pointed to cash and bloated solvency figures. In fact, that was not the case with this balance-compensation scheme with pawning. So that was another example, but a signal of the same type of culture in the area of financial accounting within the group. I don't have the impression that that's going on with other banks. This is not the result of signals or supervisory reports from the Dutch Bank about other banks. SNS did. Again, DNB has done a lot of tricks on SNS, but in the years before the nationalization it wasn't forceful that things were actually broken and put in order. That must be the analysis. I have no reason to believe that cash and recharged solvency rates are a widespread problem that would also affect other banks.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u57	However, the question is whether the supervisor has, in the light of this case, also gone to the other groups to see if these kinds of risks are still there and whether these kinds of mistakes have been made in a similar way elsewhere, so that action can also be taken against them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u58	I don't think that's the case. SNS had a very high degree of intertwining between the insurer, the bank, the real estate leg and so on. In the past, of course, this existed with several financial institutions, but as you know, ING has now privatised the insurance leg and Rabobank has disposed of a significant part of the real estate leg. The complexity and intertwinedness of these large banking insurance groups was thus something of that time. That looks really different now. Risks that solvency figures in this type of complexity and intertwinedness become shadowy are significantly reduced. So I think we do have a case here that was specific to SNS REAAL and specific to that period.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u59	When it comes to such a large amount of money, 700 million, and it is said that it is in that mutual netting and it is still used for collateral, it seems to me to be very simple. It's so hard to imagine that's been overlooked. The minister says no book research has been done. Is it true that that mistake could have simply persisted? If REAL hadn't been sold now, maybe that mistake would still be in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u60	The only thing we can actually establish is that an external auditor has discovered it. It went in at our request once we owned and were therefore responsible for the annual figures that would be presented. The old accountant either never discovered it or never exposed it. That will be apparent from the research when we look specifically at it. Again, there wasn't 700 million missing. We didn't lose that money either. It was pawned between the life insurance company and the bank. You'd better see that inside a holding company like that. When you see that, you know you can't count that money for your solvency ratio anymore. That should have been seen. Maybe that wasn't seen by the house accountant, but I'm not even sure. We're gonna try to reconstruct that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u61	It wasn't seen internally and it wasn't seen by the external accountant.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u62	So the external accountant we've turned on has seen it. He found out.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u63	Before that, of course, we also had external auditors. Then the question is why it wasn't investigated when they went to buy it. Once you get it, it'll lead to a lower value if you find something like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u64	Sure, but you have to discover an accounting error that is it for the time being and so you have also mentioned it in your contribution before you see it. That's a little Cruijffian. You need to know it's there before you see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u65	Mr Merkies has a different view on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u66	Apparently, that accounting investigation could be done later. Why has that investigation not been carried out at an earlier date? They would have found out.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u67	I agree with you that the accountant should have seen this. It was only when another external accountant was brought in, after the company was taken over by the State, that it was discovered. Meanwhile, the old accountant has been replaced by another accountant.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u68	It's true the accountant should have seen it. But shouldn't DNB have seen it, too? I am a little concerned whether this is also the case with other financial institutions when they are shifting loans among themselves. This is SNS and that's only the smallest of the four. Who tells me that the solvency of National Netherlands or of someone else is correct? Doesn't DNB check for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u69	That question has just been put to me quite literally, and I think it has been answered by Mrs Schouten. Maybe Mr Van Dijck wasn't here for a while, but I really just answered that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u70	So the minister actually says, read it back in the Acts?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u71	I can give the answer again, but that doesn't seem to make any sense. To a certain extent, the supervisor should be able to rely on the figures presented and audited by an auditor. Otherwise, we might as well abolish the function of the auditor and turn the supervisor into the accountant of the big banks. However, that is not our approach. However, we are sure that they have dropped there. We are now looking at exactly who dropped the stitch, where exactly, and whether that evil will has been or more of an accounting error. Of course, that matters for the consequences of this. If there is evidence of culpability, we will certainly go after it and hold the person responsible for it. With regard to the balance-compensation scheme and its investigation, the investigation has also been asked how long the investigation can last. You have to compare this with the expert studies that are sometimes carried out in the Entrepreneurship Chamber in the context of a survey procedure. The experience there shows that you'll soon be talking about it in three quarters of a year. Now we have already done the necessary preparatory work, so I hope that we can report on this before the end of the year. In connection with the deterioration of REAAL's financial position, what happened there was asked. How has solvency developed? At the time of nationalisation, the insurance group was expected to have a solvency of 190%. However, in setting the annual financial figures, solvency was found to have reached 176% by 31 December 2012. So that was 14% less. This had to do, among other things, with an additional provision for investment insurance and the improvements made in the calculation of the solvency requirement, which we were just talking about. Since then, solvency has fallen by 40 percentage points to 136% at the end of 2014. The latest figures have not yet been audited by the external auditor. The 40% drop brings us to 136%. This is above the minimum standard of 100%, but it is not enough given the standards that are common in the insurance sector. What is the cause of this sharp fall of 40 percentage points and of the overall decline in solvency? In the letter to the Chamber, I described that a 29 percentage point decrease was due to the downgrade of France, which reduced the ECB triple A government curve by a blow. As a result, the cash values of the technical provisions within the insurance group are worth a lot less. So that has reduced the solvency. Furthermore, the decline is a consequence of the adjustment of the adequacy test a.s.r. Life used. That's what happened to a lot of life insurance companies. This will assess the adequacy of technical provisions. In view of the arrival of Solvency II, these models have been substantially adapted. This, too, has reduced the solvency figures. There was also a 12% loss due to the interest rate climate. The long-term low interest rate of course also had a negative effect, depending on the hedging policy of the life insurance companies. Finally, there was a 20 percentage point decrease in the last quarter of last year. We have not yet completely broken down them by causes. These securities, which have further deteriorated solvency in the course of last year, have also been improved, such as a capital increase of 27%. It was necessary because we discovered the 700 million deficit in solvency. Then we implemented that capital increase from other parts of the holding company. 27 percentage points also came from a number of other developments, partly from positive market developments and partly from REAAL's positive operating result in 2013. All in all, there was a significant deterioration in the solvency position of the group, in particular of the insurer. Mr Nijboer asked for a specific explanation of the difference between the solvency position in Solvency I and Solvency II. The solvency position for the Solvency II requirements will not be disclosed until the end of 2016. Those requirements will not apply until May 2017. Moreover, if they are unable to comply, they will have to make that public immediately from the financial year 2016. A comparison between the Solvency II and Solvency I positions for the REAAL insurance group is therefore not possible. In addition, REAAL will calculate the Solvency II position for the financial year 2014 for the purposes of the supervision of DNB. That Solvency II position is also of interest to the Dutch Bank if it will shortly indicate, in the context of the statement of no objection, what the capital injection must be in order to reach the level of Solvency II. The level of Solvency II will determine the required capital contribution by the new owner. Mrs Schouten asked specific questions on this subject. Thus did she ask what is leading. Is that the commitment of 700 million to 1 billion, or is that the demand that the Dutch Bank will soon impose of 140%-150% solvency? The Dutch Bank's demand will be leading. Anbang committed to Solvency II's solvency: 140%-150%. So we do not know exactly what that requires, but the norm will be guiding and not an amount. If it's much more than this amount, Anbang can say he's not interested anymore. That's theoretically possible. I do not want to speculate too much on it, but it is not the reason for the expectation that the Dutch Bank will impose a much higher requirement than the requirement arising from Solvency II, namely 140%-150% solvency.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u72	Thank you for that answer. 140%-150% is still a reasonable bandwidth. The question now is whether we can continue the company in a healthy way. This is in the interests of all policy holders and also in the interests of employees, who then know where they stand. Will the Dutch Bank be as safe as possible, including in the talks with Anbang on the question of which capital injection is needed?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u73	It is really up to the Dutch Bank to determine the portfolio, risks and so on of this insurer exactly what it will come up with. The Dutch Bank will not negotiate with Anbang; it will simply say: this is the solvency rate you need to focus on and that means that so much has to be paid up in the company's capital. That is how the Dutch Bank will approach it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u74	Let me rephrase. Suppose we say that it will be 140% and that is an amount of 800 million, that is the amount that Anbang is going to charge, but the solvency continues to deteriorate after the sale. I can imagine at the current rate of interest that this can happen. Then Anbang soon has a discussion with the Nederlandsche Bank about the fact that another capital injection is needed to get solvency in order. Isn't it more real to set a fairly good standard now so that we know that REAL can move forward?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u75	I am convinced that the Dutch Bank will set a good standard. Yes, it is possible that markets or the situation will deteriorate in the coming years. This will not only affect REAAL, but also other life insurance companies in the Netherlands. If a problem arises with the Solvency II standards, REAAL, like other insurers, will have a few years. REAAL then receives an indication from the Nederlandsche Bank that he does not comply with the standard, that he has to put the matter in order and that he has the time to do so X years. That is the ordinary regime, and that will also apply to REAL. And Anbang will soon have, if the sale goes on completely, just all the responsibilities and obligations associated with it, including continuing to meet the solvency requirements imposed by the Dutch Bank in the future. It would be crazy to say in this case: let us impose additional solvency requirements preventively. On the basis of Solvency II and the character and risks in the company, the Nederlandsche Bank will examine what is needed. That is the condition attached to the declaration of no objection. This must be met; this must be paid in. The question of how much capital is needed has also been raised by Mr Van Dijck, the spokesman for the Labour Party and Mrs De Vries. I've answered it with this, I think. Some questions have been asked, perhaps the order of my answer is not entirely logical about the moment of nationalisation. So I have to go back in time, to February 2013. Mr Van Dijck said: I have always felt that nationalization was not necessary; the Dutch big banks were prepared to take over matters, but Brussels was not allowed to do so. It is in itself true that restrictions on certain large banks that had received State aid were imposed by the European Commission from a competition point of view. That is, of course, right. If you receive state aid, you will no longer be a fully free party until that state aid has been repaid. For example, ING has repaid everything and is now removed from the restrictions. That seems to me to be a fair approach. This led to some limitations in searching for solutions for SNS REAAL. At the same time, we have hit the sector for 1 billion, the resolution levy. That was the sector's contribution to solving this problem. The Commission has accepted that. It is possible that the Commission would have accepted a higher amount. But the regulator, who also looks at the financial stability of the sector as a whole, advised us that 1 billion could and that we should not sit higher in the light of the balance sheet recovery of the banks and so on. I think it is important that at such a time the advice of the Dutch Bank as a supervisor should weigh heavily. That is why we have taken 1 billion for the resolution levy. The banks have therefore contributed 1 billion. Investors have also contributed. It was not the deep bail-in that was widely supported in the Chamber and of which I myself am a great pioneer and supporter, because at that time we did not yet have the European legislative framework to do so. So it was a risk, because the Netherlands would have gotten ahead of it. The question is how this would have translated into funding costs for all banks in the Netherlands. In the meantime, after Cyprus and the BRRD, it is an accepted fact in Brussels. In the next case, the bail-in, so the contribution we ask of investors, will go much further than we could have done at SNS REAAL. Nevertheless, I am satisfied with the fact that we have also received a substantial contribution from that side. Those were answers to Mr Van Dijck's questions about that situation and the cost of rescue. Mr Klaver has also asked for this. Mr Klaver said that it was actually concluded at the beginning of 2012 that nationalisation was inevitable, but that there was a wait. The intervention law was not yet in place and it could have led to serious disturbances on the financial markets. How do I look back on this, Mr Klaver asked. Do I recognize these risks? No, that's how I answer. It's an important point to get back to, otherwise we'll get the wrong footage. I have no regrets at all that we have waited until February 2013, because I think Mrs De Vries also said that governments should not nationalise if that is to be avoided. We have constantly kept an eye on financial stability, at the risk that the group would really go down very badly and people would all take their money off the bank. We have constantly monitored this in order to know how much time we had left. The time we had so far has so far been used to look at alternatives, to discuss with the bank the various options, to discuss with the Netherlands Bank the resolution levy, to consult with the European Commission etc. I do not think we should have done it much earlier. One thing I know for sure: if we had done it much earlier, the price would have been much higher. Moreover, the risk of a wrong outcome of court proceedings by the parties who have now been bailed out, who have had to contribute because their securities have been written off, would have been much greater. The risks involved in such trials would have been much greater. People could have asked: why so early? The chance that we could have defended that well would have been much less. So you don't have to do it too early, you have to examine all options as long as possible. Only if it really can no longer be done and the stability of the group is rapidly deteriorating will you have to intervene immediately. It is important for the history to continue making this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u76	For the record, I wonder whether it would indeed be wise to wait until the bank is more or less completely bankrupt and only then to intervene. That's actually what the Minister says. The Minister mentions the resolution levy. The Dutch Bank said that the banks could contribute up to 1 billion. We were talking about 3.7 billion. Now it turns out it was 6.3 billion. So there's a lot in it. How much profit was made by the banks last year? A number of banks have seen its profits doubled. Banks have made many billions of profits. So I wonder whether we should not conclude afterwards that the resolution levy was actually a bit on the low side, especially when we consider that some of it comes from state-owned banks and is therefore actually money that we give to ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u77	If we had imposed the resolution levy entirely on those few banks that did not receive state aid or were not nationalized, we would have had to have the Rabobank pay the case on its own. That doesn't seem entirely fair to me either. Mr Merkies says that profits were high, so why have we not been skimming anymore? Because that would have been at the expense of restoring balance. Mr Merkies is now addressing me on this issue, but next week he will be asking about lending to SMEs and restoring the balance sheet of banks. Then he asks whether we do not ask too much of the banks with the resolution levy, the new resolution fund, the dgs levy, the banking tax, etc. Moreover, I do not hear Mr Merkies complain about the latter. It is natural from the length or width.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u78	I think I asked for the opposite of that resolution levy. The Dutch Bank said that the banks really couldn't pay anymore, otherwise they would go bankrupt or something like that. At least it would be very disastrous. The Minister calls the Rabobank, which can pay a fine of 770 million fairly easily. So there have been doubling of profits. Many billions of profits have been made. Then you can say afterwards that the Dutch Bank, in retrospect, has been very cautious and has looked up the interest of the banks?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u79	No, I don't believe that. I believe that the Dutch Bank, in all seriousness, in a period of balance sheet recovery for the banks, with large portfolios of only performing SME loans etc., may have said conservatively, but wisely conservatively: 1 billion is a portable contribution. In the future, things will be different. Then we have a much deeper bail-in, with which the account in such a case could be paid in full by the capital providers. If that is not enough, a European resolution fund will be available in the future, which will be fully funded by the banks in advance. So this is not going to happen again in the first place. We shouldn't and we won't. Maybe a single word about the cost of the whole rescue operation. The whole of the Netherlands has remembered "3.5 billion." Mr Merkies is now making 6.3 billion. I now understand where that came from, namely from page 15 of the letter. It also incorporates the operation that we are doing now: we take the bank out of the holding company. In order to do so, we need to put the value of the bank back into the holding company. It also pays for the bridge credit. If we lift the holding company later, that money will be released for the greater part. So it's almost a cash-out round, but it's a cash-out round that we have to do because you can't just pull a valuable asset out of a holding company. This would potentially lead to a deterioration of the position of other creditors vis-à-vis the holding company. So you're gonna have to put that money back, but if we cancel the holding company later, that's what we're gonna do. That money's gonna be released. The amount mentioned by Mr Merkies is really pumped up and gives the wrong impression, as if the rescue of SNS Netherlands costs 6.3 billion. That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u80	It's said I'm pumping up the amount. If you're going to define "cash circles" in this way, you can also say: we're going to buy a bank, let's say ABN AMRO, and we think we're going to get it back later, so that's a cash circle. In this way, of course, we cannot define 'cascades'. We may get it back. That could very well be done; there are very great uncertainties, but the fact is that we put 6.3 billion into it. That is the 3.7 billion and now a further 2.7 billion, of which 1.1 billion has been a bridging loan. This is now just a provision of capital and a further 1.6 billion. That's 6.3 billion, and that's what we're putting in. We may get that back, but these are the facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u81	No, Mr Merkies and I are talking together. I mean, we own the holding company and the bank now. We want to separate them now so that we can sell the bank independently and so that the solvency of the bank is not negatively affected by the fact that the bank is still connected to a holding company. That's why we're taking the bank out now. In order to do this properly, we have to put power back into the holding company, but that holding company is also ours. So yes, Mr Merkies is right in saying that there is now extra money out of my mind that 2.7 billion dollars must be put into the holding company, but that is money from us, to us. Mr Merkies adds that up and says: oh, here we go; now we are above 6 billion. You can present it that way, I leave it to Mr Merkies, but I don't think that that really helps. Again, it is an amount of State resources that is stopped in a holding company that is 100% of the State. If we lift the holding company properly, that amount will come out again. So I don't think this makes sense for giving a real presentation of what the State really had to put on the table to save SNS REAAL.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u82	Doesn't it matter if you give 1.1 billion as a loan, as a bridge loan, or if you do what you do now? In fact, it has now been converted into a provision of capital. That makes you a co-owner of something, but that loan has been converted into a capital injection. So that's not the same thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u83	That's right. I don't think we need to tell each other what the truth is or how it is, but it does matter how you present things. Several Members have asked whether the proceeds I have presented on page 15 are all certain and whether there really is 50 million left. The answer to that is: no, that is not certainty. However, I constantly get the question 'that's also a logical question 'What do I think this is going to cost us and what I expect to get out of it?' That's a question I get all the time about ABN. Of the amounts I mention, I always say that these are estimates from our advisor, NLFI, who expects them to. This also applies here: these are expected values. What is the current market value of the bank? A reasoned opinion from an expert party has been sought and made on this matter. Then you get to these amounts. Is it a certainty? No, certainly not, but it's our best estimate right now. If I get these questions repeatedly from the Chamber, I'll try to answer them to the best of my conscience.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u84	It is indeed very optimistic in that overview, because the market value of REAAL is 2 billion and we get 150 million for it. That's gonna promise when we sell the bank. My question was actually more about that construction, that round. I get it from the 2.7 billion you're giving yourself. I don't understand why you're paying off that bridge credit, because then you're, as it were, financing the bridge credit you gave and that the holding company basically has to redeem the State itself with that round. Isn't it a weird construction? I understand what's going on with the other thing, but I don't understand how you can repay that bridge credit and passerby yourself if the holding company should actually do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u85	The holding company's gonna do it, but it's gonna do it with money we're gonna put back in first, because we're gonna get the bank out. To make a difficult story simple: we had hoped to have so much money in the holding company when selling the insurer that the holding company could pay back that loan properly from the proceeds of the sale. The proceeds of the sale are extremely low. It is the reality that the value of the company is much less than we thought at the time of nationalization. Things have happened since then. However, there will be no such return and that loan will not be repaid properly. He will be repaid, but by placing capital in the holding company for another reason. If you ask "you expected a higher yield, what happened in between?', I say that the bridge credit will not be repaid with the proceeds of the insurer. That's right. This is a disappointing result, but at the same time it has been a market-based process. You can't force anyone with a gun to the head to pay more for it. This is what the company is worth right now because of all kinds of circumstances. I have described these circumstances and I think that you should be satisfied that the company is being sold at all, that it will continue to exist, that millions of policy holders will have security and that the people who work there will be able to move on. The new owner wants to continue with the company as an insurer in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u86	This brings me to perhaps the Minister would have liked to answer that question later on to the question of whether it would not be smarter to wait a while. Market conditions, low interest rates and the usury policy affair mean that now is not the best time to sell an insurer. Wouldn't it be smarter to wait three years and recapitalize REALly, to get maybe three years from now that dreamed 2 billion for REAL?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u87	That is very speculative and that is the problem I have with this. You can manage all these temporary financial participations in the expectation that, or as a speculative assumption that, it will get much better. But at this company, the necessary changes will have to be made. Within the company there is a very strong focus on life insurance and the life insurance market in the Netherlands has collapsed. The expectations that come to my attention and the Committee on Insurance are not that this market will flourish spontaneously.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u88	It was a bloated market, partly because of the usury policies. That company will therefore have to develop. Fortunately, there is also a leg in it that offers more perspective, the damage leg. Other parts also have more perspective, but these parts will have to develop the company further. Keeping the company longer in the hope that it will be worth more is speculative, because that will not happen automatically. We should not have too high expectations about this. For me, the future of the company is paramount. It's being recapitalized because the new owner puts a lot of money in it. The amount required is determined by DNB. The company can now move on and the policy holders also have the security they are entitled to. Those 86 parties are actively registered, but in addition the net has also been widely ejected. There's been an ad in the Financial Times. Anyone could have expressed their interest. Thirteen parties came forward and signed a non-disclosure agreement giving them access to more information. In the end, two parties made a non-binding bid. One of these parties was ASR, as the Chamber knows. Was ASR allowed to make an offer in the end? Yeah, you could. In the end, ASR's management and supervisory board considered that the benefits of integrating the two companies did not outweigh the risks inherent in such a process, on the basis of the further insight into the company they had received. Setting up such a company is a process of years, in which potential returns, but also risks. ASR has considered that this risk did not outweigh the potential benefit. At that time, ASR decided independently not to do it. NLFI and the Ministry of Finance have tested this: do we agree? This was done partly from our other role, because as a shareholder we also own ASR. In the end, we also endorsed the judgment of ASR itself. That's how the sales process went down. Questions were also asked about the price and the price adjustment mechanism. The shares will be paid 150 million. In addition, Anbang pays 552 million to repay the internal loans. This is good for the top holding company, because it is borrowed from it. The owner of that is the State. It is therefore not "only 150" but 150 plus the repayment of those two loans to the top holding company and a loan to the bank. There is therefore a price adjustment mechanism. This means that any value developments in the group may be settled over the first two quarters of this year. It's got an upside and a downside. If bad results are achieved in those two quarters, it may mean that the price will fall. This is primarily due to the 552 million repayment of loans. If the result were to be even more negative than that amount, it would also amount to the 150 million. However, we cannot speculate on that. It also has an upside, because the result can also be positive and then the price goes up. In the middle of this year, when the two quarters have been completed, this will be established. The balance sheet shall be established on 30 June. A conditional purchase agreement has been concluded. This depends partly on the opinion of the Dutch Bank, but also on the opinion of the Chinese insurance supervisor and on the results. If the results are more negative than the final margin of the provisional purchase agreement, Anbang may waive the purchase. So there's a lower limit and an upper limit. Mrs Schouten and Mr Omtzigt have asked what happens if it does not happen. Then the current owner, being the State, is obliged to put solvency in order, protect and strengthen. Then the risk profile will have to be further reduced, you have to adapt the organization to that and you come to a different perspective for the company. It goes too far to go into this now, and I do not think we should assume it, but we are indeed prepared for it, because we had prepared a fallback option during the sales process. So the preparation for what would happen to the company is done. In all cases, we will put the interests of policy holders first. I've already talked about ASR and the investment. I believe that Mr Merkies has asked about the usury policy claims. The position of customers who have procedures or are affiliated to foundations does not change. Their rights and opportunities for justice remain fully valid. The AFM also simply sees to it that REAAL will also make greater haste among the new owner, because REAAL really needs to make greater haste to address the problematic investment insurance. AFM will continue to monitor this. I don't know if the next question has been asked, but let me answer it anyway. No, there are no guarantees given by the State on the issue of usury policies. They weren't asked, but they certainly weren't given to the new owner. Finally, I would like to comment on a few individual comments, including a comment on megabanks, on SMP, on BRRD and on some broader issues for the future. There has been talk of the emergence of megabanks. It is conceivable but not certain that they will arise. One of the Members spoke about this as a certainty; we now have a banking union, so a new wave of consolidation is emerging. There is a chance of that. The market has become larger, so companies can be asked to become a dominant market partner again and therefore to scale up. It is certainly not certain that will happen. I do not think the emergence of megabanks is desirable, because this could create the problem of too big to fail again. Of course, we have better instruments by now. A larger bank will therefore also need to show a more comprehensive resolution plan. That can in itself be prohibitive in the creation of megabanks. Resolution authorities shall agree a resolution plan with all major banks. A bank must be able to be separated. This also means that integration benefits of very large groups are limited. That could be a limiting factor. For reasons of financial stability, however, I do not think that the emergence of megabanks is desirable in any case. We've talked about this before. The Antonveneta Directive is being evaluated. That evaluation has not been finalised by the Commission. I have recently called on Commissioner Hill to continue this evaluation. A statement of no objection to a merger should be capable of being refused on the basis of the argument of financial stability. It should be possible to say that this merger would lead to a bank so large that problems could have effects on financial stability as a whole. We have already drawn the Commission's attention to adding that criterion to the Antonveneta Directive. As I agree with that, we continue to insist on it. Furthermore, an interesting development is that the Financial Stability Board, i.e. the international consultation under the G20, is now working on a total loss absorption capacity (TLAC). That's actually a capital requirement, a requirement for an additional buffer for global systemic banks, so the really big banks. The type of megabanks that the members of the Chamber have just talked about would certainly be included. Therefore, if banks were to become so large, they would immediately face additional capital requirements and buffer requirements. That too will put a brake on too much scaling up.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u89	The Minister clearly says that banks should not become too big to fail. That is also the approach of the VVD. We can also agree with what the Minister is talking about in the context of the Antonveneta directive. DNB has, of course, raised the question of whether we should formulate a maximum size. I have heard the Minister say about this in the past: small banks can also have a lot of risks, so the size does not always say anything about risks. What is the Minister's view on this at the moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u90	It doesn't change very quickly. I will read it again, but I did not hear the President of the Netherlands Bank say that a maximum balance sheet size should be defined. He warned of, and turned against, the emergence of megabanks. I agree with that and I believe that this is also widely felt in the Chamber. I've written to the Chamber how we slow it down, or... to give the ECB the means to combat this under the criterion of financial stability. That does not mean that it is banned in absolute terms, but that there is a supervisor who can say: sorry, I just won't allow it because of the scale and the stability risks.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u91	The VVD thinks it's a good line to take that up and offer those opportunities. Is the portrait of what Mr Knot said about the size of the banks then that he needs such a button within the Antonveneta Directive? Is that what he meant by those statements?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u92	I would have to read them very carefully, but I spoke to the President of the Netherlands Bank at the annual meeting last week, also on this subject, so before he went into the media with these statements. We then spoke along the line of the Antonveneta Directive, financial stability and a supervisor who should be given that power. So I thought that was his angle, too. The next time I speak to him, I will verify that again. A few comments have been made on the BRRD directive. The bill is now with the Council of State and will soon come to the Chamber. Mr Koolmees has asked what happens to insurers in this area. He was talking about resolution, resolution. The European Commission is currently identifying the need for a European harmonised approach to the recovery and resolution of insurers. Indeed, prudential supervision will be fully harmonised with Solvency II in 2016, but resolution is something other than supervision. In the case of banks, we have dealt with this separately. That is why I certainly welcome a harmonised approach to resolution and resolution. There are several large insurance groups in Europe, which also operate cross-border. There is therefore much to be said for having a joint resolution approach, in order to establish a common method for this. I have already spoken to the Commission on this in a positive way. We are now waiting for the Commission's inventory. Mr Nijboer asked about the trigger moments, the trigger scheme under the BRRD. What triggers resolution? How does this relate to the United States? In the implementing law now before the Council of State and soon to come to the Chamber, we are going to deal with this in great detail. Then we can discuss it further. Mrs De Vries also asked about the implementing law. How are the recommendations made by Mr Frijns and Mr Hoekstra taken into account? The implementation law deals specifically with the extension and strengthening of the entire resolution toolbox. This is strongly guided by the instruments of the BRRD. A number of recommendations of the evaluation committee were also taken into account. So that is very much in line with each other. Some elements of Dutch legislation are retained as a fallback option, but this will soon be found in the House's legislation. Then we can discuss it in detail. I think I'm about done.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u93	The Minister is at the end of his reply in the first term. We can proceed immediately with the second term of the Chamber. I give the first floor to Mr Merkies. Normally speaking time is about a third of speaking time in the first term in the second period, but I understand that it has been used in a laconical manner, so I will see what I can do.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u94	Mr. Chairman. It is always said that some years ago supervision was very bad, now it is better. That's what Wouter Bos said in 2008: in America it's bad, it's much better with us. Now that's said again. I always hope that this is the case and that we will not say again in five years' time: five years ago it was not so good. What I find at least is that it matters to what extent supervision itself is again what is in the picture and not entirely behind closed doors. After all, that was a problem. I have also asked a question about this, but the Minister has not really gone into it yet. I do not want us to make the same mistake with the ECB, which means that supervision is too out of the picture and we cannot do much. We have seen that the winter coat of 750 million from SNS has become a heavy winter coat of 6.3 billion. We hope we get everything back, but I'm curious what we'll get back from that. I'm closing up. We talked about the size of banks and the megabanks. We don't want those megabanks. I note that there is increasing support for this. You can also see that the Dutch Bank is committed to this and points to the risks of a banking union. Following that, I will table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Netherlands Bank has proposed to set an upper limit on the size of banks;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how this upper limit can be set,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Merkies, Koolmees, Omtzigt, Schouten, Klaver and Nijboer.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33532-41]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u95	In order to properly assess the motion, I have one more enlightening question. Is the motion's intention to set a maximum balance sheet size for the banks? Or isn't that the intention of this motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u96	If that's what I meant, I would have put it in motion. I think it is right for the Ministry to examine the various possibilities.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u97	However, the motion strongly calls for a maximum size of a bank to be formulated. Doesn't that mean the balance sheet total? Mr Merkies does not ask the Minister to map out all the possibilities of preventing too big to fail, which I think is what the whole Chamber wants.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u98	Of course, you can limit a maximum to several criteria. Balance sheet capital seems to me to be a very logical criterion, but I leave it to the researchers to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u99	Mr. Chairman. Given the time, I didn't say anything in the first term about that 700 million-dollar bookkeeping blunder that suddenly came up. Having heard the answers, I wonder why the Minister did not start an investigation until now, when he was already aware of them a year and a half ago. Why isn't that investigation even initiated? We would have had the results by now. The Minister now hopes to produce the results by the end of this year. If it is structural, but also if it is one-off, it is something that needs to be examined equally. In the first term, I also asked what Anbang is. Who's that? What kind of club is that? Perhaps the Minister can go into that in order to prevent us from standing here in a year's time, and it turns out that Anbang is some kind of Chinese supersprinkle, and we all regret having hair on our heads that we trusted REAL with it. Finally, I still think that we are getting very little: for something that still has a book value of 2 billion, 150 million is paid. The minister says we can wait, but that's speculative, because who's to say what the company looks like? I would like to ask the Minister whether there are no scenarios calculated with interest rates of another level or a scenario in which the usury policy affair is resolved. What could REAL mean and be worth in a number of years? Because now maybe we're doing a rush job towards Anbang and we're getting way too little for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u100	I understand that Mr Klaver is abandoning his second term. I hope that we can proceed immediately and quickly with the second term of Mr Nijboer from the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u101	As you asked, Mr. Chairman, immediately and quickly. I would like to thank the Minister for answering the questions. Good thing the D.A. is after the crimes committed at SNS. I look forward to a firm punishment for the criminals after the summer. The Minister laughs, but he gets another motion on solvency!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u102	We'll see if he's laughing after that. But that's a little hard to record.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u103	I think it is a serious matter, because REAAL has a worryingly solvable position. It is being sold and a capital injection is being made. There have been extensive answers to questions about the development of solvency, but the touchstone was Solvency I. This is also what the internal objective is aimed at, while the new touchstone is Solvency II. The figures for Solvency I do not clearly relate to Solvency II for the Chamber. It is a big decision whether this insurer has enough weight to be able to meet the commitments in due course. I'd like to get more information on that. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Vivat's solvency has deteriorated in recent months;]] [[noting that difficult market conditions, such as low capital market rates and the difficult life insurance market, are expected to continue in the coming period;]] [[calls on the Government to monitor the development of Vivat's financial position in the coming months and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Nijboer and Mr Schouten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33532-42]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u104	This is also an enlightening question. In my view, we have supervisors to monitor the solvency of insurers and banks. What does this add to that? What's this gonna do? I assume that DNB will simply carry out its tasks.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u105	I'll take that as a assumption. If we don't do that anymore, what are we doing? At the same time, we are shareholders of a large life insurance company and we are dealing with sales with only one supplier, with an insurer that does have solvency concerns, which needs an additional injection. I have asked a lot of written questions that have been answered in part, but I also have follow-up questions. This motion is trying to include those questions so that I can get an answer to them. For I think it is the responsibility of the Chamber that pensioners and people with disability insurance have sufficient assurance that the commitments are being met.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u106	It's still not clear to me. The motion merely says that solvency must be monitored, but DNB already does. Is Mr Nijboer actually saying that DNB should just do what she's always done?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u107	No, the Chamber has asked questions about the development of Solvency I and II. Some of these questions have been answered very extensively and another part, such as questions about the relationship between the new solvency criteria, the financial health of REAAL and the internal objective, is not clear to me. I'd like to be clear about that. The sale of such a company is a major responsibility, also for politics; we are necessarily shareholders. I want to know that a healthy company is being sold. I think that's my job as a representative of the people. That is why I tabled this motion together with Mrs Schouten.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u108	Mr. Chairman. As far as we are concerned, too, there are concerns about solvency, albeit in some other form. What concerns us is that the solvency of a company can seem to be unseenly lower than is thought. I must say that I am a little surprised that no action is being taken to see whether this is the case elsewhere in the sector. The Minister, in my opinion, shrugged his shoulders on it, like "it's an incident and it was at that time." I would be very concerned if the supervisor could not see that. I have another question about disciplinary law. The accountant is, of course, also part of the investigation that is being carried out. We are curious about the state of play with regard to the elaboration of the VVD's proposal to extend the limitation period. As far as we are concerned, it cannot be that the accountant will be able to call on it and get away with it. What possibilities does the Minister see with regard to advisors and auditors if there are proven culpable cases? A number of questions remain from the first term. I asked about the sale and timeline of ABN AMRO, ASR and SNS. What agreements have been made to maintain REAAL as an independent unit within the Anbang group?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u109	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for answering the questions. We are not reassured yet, and that is also the sentiment that prevails in this Chamber, I think. The solvency of REAAL is simply not good. I very much hope that it will improve and I am also confident that the Dutch Bank will monitor this very closely, but we must avoid having the same discussion here again in a year or two years' time, because things are going very badly with, for example, VIVAT. We have also expressed this in the motion tabled by Mr Nijboer. We also have to keep our finger on the wrist as a room. Ultimately, it is also a question of simply giving the policy holders certainty and of giving the employees security. Indeed, everything must be focused on that. That's still a dilemma for DNB, I think. In fact, the evaluation report criticized the fact that, sometimes too quickly, a statement of no objection was issued. Now there is a lot of pressure to give a statement of no objection because there is only one potential buyer. Is the Minister confident that the balance is calm and sound? I do have that confidence, by the way. It is not that this is a question mark for me, but I do see the pressure and the dilemma. I hope that by then we will all make a proper assessment, in the interests of policy holders and in the interests of employees.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u110	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for the answers. I have a few more follow-up questions. What has been done since October 2013 to correct the accounting move of 700 million, to inform, to hold the accountant liable and that sort of thing? We're still a little confused by all the billions of dollars going around the SNS group. Can we get a clear picture sometime? There was an overview of the letter. What exactly is expected? What's the assumption based on that we're still getting billions from SNS? What exactly is it going to cost the state? We share the view that the creation of megabanks is undesirable. We will therefore retable the motion we tabled earlier. We now see that we are also receiving support from Mr Koolmees. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Banking Union could lead to a consolidation of European banks;]] [[Whereas banks which are too big to fail are one of the causes of the financial crisis and that new formation of megabanks should be avoided;]] [[calls on the Dutch Government to commit itself to a very strict policy when it comes to issuing a statement of no objection to bank mergers resulting in megabanks,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Omtzigt, Mr Merkies and Mr Schouten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33532-43]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u111	In addition to Mr Van Dijck's questions, I ask the Minister whether Anbang's financial statements are public. We haven't seen it yet. Can we understand any of that? That could give some insight into whether it is a sensible sale or not. Finally, I wish the Minister very much strength at his very important meeting tonight in Brussels.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u112	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for the answers. I had three points today: the recommendation of the evaluation committee, the megabanks and the internal interlinkage of the accounts. As regards the issue of the resolution of insurers, I agree with the Minister's line that this should be dealt with jointly at European level as far as possible. I am very curious what is going to happen there, but I therefore agree with the line. I started talking about the megabanks a while ago. I have just looked into why I did not support Mr Merkies and Mr Omtzigt's motion last time. This had to do with the fact that I considered it superfluous, mainly because the Minister had indicated that he was working on this in the context of the evaluation of the Antonveneta Directive. At the same time, the point of D66 remains important. I will wholeheartedly support the motion tabled by my fellow Members. I will also support Mr Merkies' motion, which goes one step further by asking for a detailed map of the possibilities. I would like to point out on both motions that the European line is preferred for D66. Through the Antonveneta Directive, we need to define the criteria in the ECB's legislation at European level in order to prevent the emergence of megabanks. Against this background, I wholeheartedly support these motions. We'll wait for the inter-accounts investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u113	This brings to an end the second term of the Chamber. I understand from the Minister that he will take the answer to this question immediately and quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u114	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u115	You didn't have a sound, but I've found the button!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u116	This has led to witty videos in the past.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u117	We can do our best to do that. Do you have a joke at hand?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u118	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u119	In the meantime, I'll think about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u120	It was a video of a chairman looking for buttons. The panel's changed, I see. The technique is progressing. Mr. Chairman. I'll answer a few separate questions first and then go into the motions. Mr Merkies has said, with doubt in his voice, that I hope that supervision of banks is better now. I'm trying to convince him of that. In my view, it is crucial that supervision is better than at the time when these problems arose. If Mr Merkies has fundamental doubts about this, he should not accept it as a Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u121	Mr Merkies, you have been challenged.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u122	That's right, if this isn't entrapment! That's exactly my point: we don't know it very often. It happens too much behind closed doors. I think this is a lesson we need to learn from the whole story of SNS. If there had been some public debate and had been visible what the supervisor is doing, they might have been kept sharper. I hope that we will take that lesson with us so that we can also keep the ECB sharp.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u123	I fully agree with that. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Dijck and Mr Omtzigt have asked what exactly has been done since the first sense that 700 million had been wrongly added into the solvency calculations. I outlined that this proved to us for the first time in October. That's what I've been called in. We then discussed with SNS REAAL in November and strongly with DNB on how to deal with this. Then it was resolved within the holding company with the shifts I outlined in the documents. Therefore, it does not require an additional capital injection, but the solvency was deteriorated. That has also been corrected, but of course the total had not become stronger. That's what happened. After we established that solution together at the end of November, I wrote to the Chamber in December; in summary, I acknowledge that. We also immediately asked the management of SNS REAAL to list the facts. Once again, because it originated in the nineties, that's really an archival investigation of awesome. That is not complete, because we also want to know what the role of others has been. SNS REAAL's already done a lot of pre-work. What about within the group? Where, when, how? We are now going to look at the role and involvement of the different players. So there's already been work done. I honestly admit that we were also in the middle of a process of restructuring the group and selling REAAL. Those things had to go on in the meantime. At the same time, that process of research started. Mrs De Vries asked a question about the problem of balance-compensation and pawning. How do we know this doesn't play wider in the sector? She thought I was a little too laconical about that. I didn't mean to be laconic. In itself, balance compensation is just allowed. This is more the case in financial groups, but also in other groups. At the time of pawning, that is no longer necessary, because these funds will already be seized. They will then not be freely available and may not be included in the solvency calculations. The Dutch Bank is always alert to this. Usually it is also known which items are pawned in the balance sheet and in what ratio and to whom, but here that was not the case. That was an exceptional situation, as was the fact that the auditor did not recognise it and that the solvency for it was not corrected. Again, the how and what exactly are we going to portray, but the fact that something exceptional has happened does not mean that there is an endemic risk in the sector. The Dutch Bank will now be even more alert to this. It also has to do with the quality of the auditors, I think, quite frankly. If the accountants are to be blamed, we will also make that accusation in the legal sense, but we need to know exactly what it is. I will return to Mr Van Dijck. He did ask who Anbang was in the first installment. I briefly indicated in the letter what we know about Anbang. Anbang is an insurance company in China. A number of years ago, the Chinese insurance market was opened up. The two largest groups, which are by far the largest, come from the old state insurers. After that, some new parties emerged in China. It is a major insurer on a Dutch scale, but in China it is relatively small. It is not the first time that it is operating abroad, but it is a new company outside China. This means that the Dutch Bank knows relatively little about it. That is why the Dutch Bank will take the maximum time necessary for this, to really get a clear picture of how the group works, how solid and reliable it is and so on. This will be done independently, but also in coordination with the Chinese supervisor and with the Belgian supervisor. It also carries out a review of Anbang itself, because Anbang wants to take over an insurer and also a small bank in Belgium. That is also the answer to Mrs Schouten's question as to whether there is not much pressure on this process, because there is only one buyer. If the Dutch Bank doesn't like it, we're empty-handed. I'm not assuming that. I have confidence in myself, but that possibility is, of course, present. That is why, in the first place, I said that we have prepared ourselves for alternative scenarios in the course of the sales process. They're designed and prepared. We know what steps to take. This means a different perspective for the company, but we are not going to let the company go down in the sense that the policy holders are left empty-handed. I can give you that insurance. I don't want pressure on the vvgb process either. I think that the Dutch Bank really needs to come to its own decision. This also applies to solvency, but I shall come back to that in the light of Mr Nijboer's motion. The Netherlands Bank simply has to determine the required solvency requirement on the basis of the current situation. That translates into a certain injection of capital. The Dutch Bank must and will certainly not ask itself in advance whether this could compromise the sale. She shouldn't look at it that way. Mr Van Dijck made a comment on the book value of the group: how can we get such a bummer for that, while it is worth two billion? It is very simple: the group is simply not worth two billion. The insurance leg was already a weak company and has deteriorated further in recent years. I have always outlined the various reasons for this and the impact on solvency in quite detail. So that dreamed book value is no longer there; it is as simple as that. The demand for market value is quite different. Mrs De Vries asked about the sale of the other financial holdings. I think she knows the answer to that question. I have promised that in the first quarter the Chamber will be informed about further steps in the sale of ABN AMRO. The ASR process starts after the decision on ABN AMRO, not after the sale of ABN AMRO. We start the process after we have finally given the green light for the sale of AA. This starts with an initial exploration and the establishment of the necessary procedure. I will inform the Chamber further, but in that order. What is the future of SNS Bank? First comes the settlement of the holding company.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u124	Has the Minister of Finance said before that this will go "in that order"? After all, I can imagine that we would reverse that order. We are not in favour of an IPO of ABN AMRO at all, but assuming that something like this is going to happen, I ask why there will not be an IPO of ASR first. To be honest, that seems to me to be a more logical choice. Look at the way this insurance company's been doing. I think you'd rather bring it to the market faster than ABN AMRO.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u125	No. We shouldn't think we should start selling soon, because maybe things aren't going well. ASR really is in a different position than REAL. It shouldn't all be thrown into one pile. We have always said, in a net process, that ABN AMRO must prepare for sale. We've made performance agreements with the bank and they're being realized. The Bank's performance figures have improved considerably. The second key was whether there is an interest in this type of share in the market. The third was the question of whether the financial sector is broadly stable. I can see that there have been very significant improvements on all three fronts. So we're gonna start this. I have no reason to reconsider. Mr Merkies thinks otherwise, but as long as I have the support of the majority of the Chamber, I would like to continue along this route. This is very careful and is embedded in a strong framework of legislation and regulation and supervision. Like other banks, ABN AMRO will have to be able to move freely on the market, taking into account its social role.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u126	I understand that a majority chooses the IPO of ABN AMRO. Previously that was different, at least for the PvdA. I'm talking about the order between ASR and ABN AMRO. The Minister does not really support his choice of that particular order; why should he not reverse it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u127	I can also reverse that remark. The only argument put forward by Mr Merkies to reverse it is: the sale of REAAL is not going well, at least it has proved difficult, so the Minister must sell ASR quickly. I'm not going along with that argument. ASR is really a completely different company; it is very different. Let me not draw any conclusions about ABN AMRO at this stage. The room will have it soon. That order has been determined. I also think you should be clear with the companies. They must be able to prepare and prepare themselves. I have always indicated to the companies what the order is: first REAL, then ABN AMRO, ASR and then on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u128	Mr. Merkies, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u129	Very briefly. I'm not getting much of a basis for that order right now. Can it be included in the letter? I would like to know why this order was chosen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u130	I'm not gonna say it over and over again. Read the last letter. That is also what we discussed. If ABN is ready according to the three main criteria, we start the sale. Period. REAL has actually slipped in, because it had to. That was also the agreement with the European Commission. REAAL had to be separated with priority and the group had to be restructured. Which brings me to the question of how things are going with SNS Bank. First, we remove SNS Bank from the holding company, in the way described in the letter. Then we go into the process of settling the holding company. Then, on the basis of an opinion from the NFLI (NL Financial Investments), we will inform your Chamber about the further process at the earliest this autumn. We are really still in the restructuring phase. So we haven't decided on SNS Bank yet. Mrs De Vries asked what the future position of REAAL is within the Anbang group. Anbang itself indicated that VIVAT.This is the new name of REAAL.As an independent unit remains within the group. VIVAT therefore remains active within the Netherlands as an independent insurer. We think that is a positive thing. Mr Omtzigt asked whether he could obtain a precise overview of the costs and expected revenues. That overview is on page 15. Right now, I can't make it any more detailed. We have also explicitly stated that a number of numbers in that list are indicative and surrounded with great uncertainty. However, I believe that the Chamber is entitled to have some indication of our expectations. Then I'll come to the motions. I shall begin with Mr Merkies' motion on item No. 41. This one is widely supported, so I wouldn't even think about reacting critically to that. The motion calls on the government to examine how the upper limit on the size of banks can be shaped. If I can understand the motion in such a way that we want to put a brake on the development of megabanks and that we will see how that can be done, I am happy to take her up. I do not think it is a good approach if it is meant to indicate what the maximum balance sheet size of a bank in Europe should be. Perhaps we can have the debate on the basis of the different ways in which I want to do it. I believe that we have sent a letter to the Chamber on this subject, but I am now beginning to doubt it. I see there's been a no. Some letters are prepared, but not sent. It's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u131	Well, that has something to do with the signature you put under it or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u132	I'm genuinely confused. I thought we had written a letter about the various possibilities and points of approach to counter and curb the possible development of megabanks.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u133	Mr Merkies is going to help you, or ask for a letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u134	I'd like to help the Minister. There was indeed a very short note last Monday, but it merely states that the Minister will return to it, as a result of what the Dutch Bank wrote in its annual report last week.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u135	I remember. Mr Merkies asked for a letter on this subject before the debate on the European Council. Since this issue is not on the agenda of the European Council, this cabinet has invented to send a polite letter to Mr Merkies first announcing that it will return to it in greater detail. That's where my confusion was. I also see Mr Omtzigt standing. I'm sure he's about to ask whether those letters can be made public or can be wobbled by the Telegraaf. Both are possible. The letter has already been promised, so it will be sent to the Chamber anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u136	Well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well. I can now challenge him and ask him whether he has anticipated Mrs De Vries' question...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u137	The Minister is asking the questions these days. Mr Merkies is going to answer it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u138	Let me come to the interrupting microphone anyway, because I think it was an indirect question to me. It is a bit similar to the debate on the tax system: there are no taboos for me on the direction it should take. It says what it says. I think it's obvious.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u139	In any case, this has been a reaction. It is obviously satisfactory, or at least it is no reason for Mrs De Vries to come to the interrupting microphone again. This is not an entrapment, because the President does not do that, but I see Mrs De Vries walking forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u140	I'm curious to hear the Minister's response. If nothing is excluded and the issue of balance sheet size must also be taken into account, I wonder whether the Minister's opinion on this motion remains the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u141	I don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u142	... but apparently that's a lot harder. Mrs. De Vries, give it a try.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u143	The Minister gives a certain interpretation to the SP motion, namely that it is not about the balance sheet size of a bank. I am curious whether the authors can support that interpretation. For me, it still matters whether or not the motion can be interpreted in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u144	My reaction remains the same, so I leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber. I'll give the room the following. When I look at this potential problem, it's an expectation; it's not acute yet; it's a possible problem. I see a number of other ways to counteract it, slow it down, prevent it and give powers to the supervisor. So I can already say on the cabinet response that formulating an absolute maximum balance sheet size for banks in Europe will not be the route the cabinet is going to take. It is up to the proposers to assess whether I am not carrying out the motion. That's not entrapment, by the way. In the Nijboer/Schouten motion to item No. 42 the government is invited to monitor the development of the financial position of VIVAT in the coming months and to inform the Chamber thereof. First I'm gonna be difficult and then I'm gonna be constructive again. By "difficulty" I mean that it is not the role of the government to monitor the financial position of insurers. We have a supervisor who will monitor this. In the light of the vvgb process (statement-of-no-thinking process), i.e. the assessment of giving the green light for the sale of REAAL to Anbang, DNB will also, of course, examine the position of the group. DNB will make an up-to-date assessment of this and will attach a solvency requirement to it. It should not now be expected that it will all be settled in the future between now and X years. No one can guarantee that. Developments may deteriorate or improve further, but for that we have a supervisor and a toolbox. Now I'll be constructive again. Of course, we will be following the financial position of VIVAT with interest in the coming months, even if it was only because of the pricing mechanism. Of course, we will inform the Chamber about its results and about the price that will eventually be paid if the sale continues, including the final requirement of DNB for the capital required in the company. I'll just add that a preliminary purchase agreement has been concluded. If DNB issues a declaration of no objection with a particular solvency requirement, it is not for the Court to say that it considers that insufficient and that the purchase should not continue. You can't do that. May I interpret the motion as follows? The government is asked to inform the Chamber as soon as the sale has become final and to indicate under what conditions the sale has become final and what price has finally come out. That seems reasonable to me. I'd be happy to. However, it cannot be that the Chamber, when the final figures are there at the beginning of the summer, says: it cannot be that way. That is legally impossible, and that is also politically impossible for me. Then I don't know if I can continue the sales process. But I do not think Mr Nijboer meant it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u145	You're increasingly wondering who's asking the question, who's giving the answer and what's the expected question. The essence of the motion is that there are concerns about the solvency of REAAL. Those concerns are widely shared. Many questions have been asked about the precise figures in the written round prior to this debate. What is still unclear to me is the relationship between what is desired at REAAL, so the internal requirement of Solvency I was 176%, so I think it is out of the ordinary and the demand that DNB ultimately makes for Solvency II, namely 140% to 150%. Is it under there or up there? What's the deal with that? I'm just asking from the Chamber's information position. We are debating this today. In the future there will be another development. I think it is the responsibility of DNB, but also of the shareholder, to monitor a crucial part of the sales agreement. That's what the motion's meant. So it's a bit in between. On the one hand, of course, DNB has that role and we should not take it over. On the other hand, we must have sufficient information on the financial position of REAAL.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u146	I'm gonna start whining again, and then I'm gonna be constructive. I am sorry to say that the Minister does not have his own view on the financial position of the group or on the solvency of the group. It is true that we do not yet know exactly what REAL stands for in terms of solvency in the transition from Solvency I to Solvency II. Mr Nijboer rightly said that. Let me start with Solvency I. The development of this solvency ratio, what has happened to deteriorations and where we are now, I have outlined the Chamber. We also know what the legal minimum standard is. It's too low and we have to stay up there. That is still the case, but it has deteriorated considerably. Now we are going to have a technical transition to a new regime and a new method of calculation, of which the Dutch Bank has said: we will in any case demand 140% to 150%; in that order of magnitude that will be. Such a solvency requirement will also be part of the declaration of no objection. It will be linked to that. That requires capital investment. We do not know at this stage what the extent of this will be. This can indeed be affected in the coming months. I assume that Mr Nijboer is asking for that in his motion: what is going to happen in the coming months and what does that mean? However, it will not affect the solvency requirement that the Dutch Bank is going to impose. The Dutch Bank simply says: we will have Solvency II; we think you should at least reach that level with that new methodology. I cannot yet tell the Chamber what amount will result from that. That's from later on. I can inform the Chamber about that later. I look at my officials and see that this is indeed possible. So, if I can interpret the motion that way, I can do it that way. The motion concerns the financial position of the group. It also affects the final price. That too is important to report to the Court, also in the context of transparency. That is what I will do.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u147	We have not yet heard a judgment, but I shall first give the floor to Mr Merkies. He has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u148	I'm asking for some clarification. Is the Minister of Finance going to do something extra as a result of this motion or is he going to do what he would do anyway?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u149	The motion asks the government to monitor the financial position. It is said that DNB is leading the way in terms of solvency. No, there really is autonomy of DNB on that point. But I'll follow it. The financial position and influence on the price I will follow with great interest. I'll inform the Chamber about both results. That is what is called for in this motion. This may have happened on some points, but I will now do so explicitly on the issue of solvency. So it's judgment room. I have no objection to this. It seems logical and good to me to do so with the comments I have made. I'll come to the motion in part No. 43. There seems to be competition on the subject of megabanks. There is now a political battle on the question of who is the subject?'. I'll give it to everyone. We were just talking about the widely signed Merkies c.s. Some of the same signatories have tabled another motion. He sees more on the statement of no objection to bank mergers. That's also a flight route to avoid megabanks. That seems to me to be a good observation. In all honesty, I must say that Mr Koolmees has already made this point explicit in an earlier debate with regard to the Antonveneta Directive and the statement of no objection. We have already agreed on this, as I have already mentioned to the Commission, and that is what this motion is about. However, in the context of collegiality, you might consider considering this motion to be superfluous. I leave it to the Chamber to decide, because I have no problem with the substance of the matter. However, this is a point that Mr Koolmees had already raised.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-8.u150	The vote on the motions will take place next Tuesday.
