ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-8.u1	I propose to add to the Chamber's agenda: the draft law Merging the municipalities of Edam-Volendam and Zeevag (34074); the legislative proposal Amendment of some education laws relating to the introduction of the obligation for schools to take care of social security at school (34130); the legislative proposal Amendment of the Police Act 2012 (in-body investigation) (34013); the legislative proposal Implementing Directive 2013/40/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council on attacks against information systems and replacing Council Framework Decision 2005/222/JHA (PbEU L 218/8) (34034); the legislative proposal Rules on wind energy at sea (Act wind energy at sea) (34058).
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-8.u2	I propose to authorise the holding of legislative or legislative acts. memo consultation with shorthand report on Monday 16 March from 11.00 a.m. to 15.00 p.m. from the Permanent Committee for European Affairs on the agenda of the European Summit on 19 and 20 March 2015.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-8.u3	I thought we were going to deal with this subject in plenary on Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-8.u4	I have been asked by the Permanent Committee for European Affairs to ask the Chamber to authorise the holding of a legislative or legislative body. notary consultation with shorthand report. That's why I'm reading this now and asking for permission now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-8.u5	I object to that. I would like to have a plenary debate on the European summit here on Tuesday. Yesterday, at the request of Mr Wilders, we said at the time of the settlement that we would combine this issue with the debate on the Greek threats. We are waiting for a letter on that point. It seems logical to me to just have that debate here. I would ask you, Mr President, to allow the sitting to begin a little earlier and to shorten Question Time slightly. Then, on Tuesday afternoon, there should be an hour or three available between 3 p.m. and 6 p.m. to discuss the European summit with Prime Minister Rutte.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-8.u6	I'm not putting the request to the Chamber for nothing. It is now being objected to. I'm asking the Chamber to respond to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-8.u7	My reminder of yesterday's work is the same as that of Mr Omtzigt. So I also object to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-8.u8	We agree with the proposal of the Permanent Committee on European Affairs to hold a note-taking meeting on Monday.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-8.u9	On behalf of Mr Maij, I agree with Mrs Van Ark's proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-8.u10	I have to admit, I'm getting a little mugged by this. I remember yesterday's work very well. I believe that some importance should also be attached to what Mr Omtzigt has just brought in. I will try to clarify as soon as possible from my fellow spokesperson. Until then, I agree with what Mr Omtzigt has said.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-8.u11	There was a written procedure yesterday in the standing committee for European affairs. A large number of spokesmen, including myself, had questions about this. Mr Omtzigt raised these questions. Where does the proposal come from? There was also a lot of objection to it. I therefore agree with Mr Omtzigt. I would like the debate to be held in plenary next Tuesday, especially since the request comes from, among other things, the Prime Minister's Office and it is not yet clear to me why the Prime Minister cannot be here. If we were to decide to do it in a note-taking meeting, for which, of course, there are very good reasons, I would certainly like to know these reasons. Only a request from the Prime Minister is not enough as far as I am concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-8.u12	I support Mr Omtzigt's request.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-8.u13	There has indeed been a rather extensive e-mail procedure, to which a number of Members refer. I have also heard this from the Registrar of the Permanent Committee on European Affairs. On the basis of that e-mail procedure, a conclusion was reached by the Chairman of the Permanent Committee, in accordance with the rules laid down in the Rules of Procedure. That is why this request is before us. It came to me that way. I am not making this proposal to the Chamber until it has been decided within the committee's bosom. How this decision was taken is up to the committee itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-8.u14	Mr. Chairman. I would ask you to contact the chairman of that committee. This request was made by the Registrar, not by political parties. Political parties have responded to this. That's how I asked, "How come?" In the decision e-mail that has just been e-mailed, I was looking for it. It says that it was indeed the VVD and the Labour Party who, together with the Prime Minister's office, asked for the debate to be converted the day before the elections into a note meeting on Monday. No reason has been given for this. In fact, after this request had been made by the Registrar, Mrs Maij and the spokesperson of the VVD have also said in plenary that you can add this to the plenary debate on Tuesday. So I would ask that this be referred back to committee so that we can take a decision on this tomorrow, if necessary, during the regulation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-8.u15	I repeat what I have just said, namely that we are in agreement with a note-taking meeting on Monday. I believe that there is a majority in committee as well as here in plenary who has spoken in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-8.u16	We have just come from a general discussion, which was also about Europe. I came running here when I understood that this arrangement of work was taking place. I come in and I hear that I'm being miscited. I'm sorry about that. I said that we could add it next week when we talk about the European summit. At that time, Mr Omtzigt was quite clear that he was the only one who said Tuesday. We can do this very easily on Monday when we have that note-taking meeting. That is what we said and it was already agreed in the written round.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-8.u17	I think this is pretty serious anyway. It is going as it is, but my group chairman has requested a separate debate on the regulation. A majority decided that this would be included in the debate on the European Summit. If you're gonna be a majority, you're gonna have to settle down. But that does not mean that my group chairman, who is not a member of the permanent committee for European affairs, has had no chance of expressing his opinion in the e-mail procedure. We have missed that opportunity, and there is nothing we can do about it. I agree with what Mr Omtzigt just said. Otherwise, I am going to ask for a new arrangement, because I am now also dealing with information that I cannot do anything with, but I do not want to let this go.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-8.u18	Yesterday there was a very comprehensive regulation of work which dealt with many complex issues. It is true that your group chairman, Mr Wilders, was here and said that he wanted a debate on this. In the end, it was a decision of the Chamber to keep the letter he asked to add to the debate on the European summit sometime next week. That's exactly what was decided. So there was no separate decision yesterday in the order of business on a separate debate at the request of your group chairman. There was no decision yesterday to meet on Tuesday. It is customary for us to meet on Tuesday. It seems to me that I want to stay out of that, but that is how our arrangement is going to go about it, for muffled reasons, within the bosom of the permanent committee for European Affairs, a discussion on whether it is better to hold that debate at a different time than we usually do. That has led to the decision-making process that I am presenting to the Chamber. I have heard all of you here in the debate, and I can only conclude that the majority of the Chamber endorses the committee's decision and that we are thus deciding. That seems to me to be the case, but I will not conclude it definitively, because I see that Mr Klaver still wants to speak. I give you the floor, Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-8.u19	I can count, too. It's clear. There is a majority who does not want to have that debate on Tuesday. It will then have to take place on Monday. I would like to ask you, as President, whether it is possible to clarify at least what is the reason why the debate cannot be held on Tuesday. It is very common for us to have a note-taking meeting on Monday, but it has not happened before that we have done so in the context of the preparation for a European summit. A request has been made by the Prime Minister and I believe that we as a Chamber have the right to know why the debate cannot be held on Tuesday here in this House. That is why I ask you, Mr President, to inform the Prime Minister. Perhaps a brief note can come this way, so that we know what is going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-8.u20	I can do it even faster. I was not part of the discussion, but I understand that the Prime Minister had agenda technical problems on Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-8.u21	That's very wonderful. Agenda technical problems are only valid here if they are foreign visits, visits by Heads of State or such things. As far as we are concerned, a European debate is a very important debate. There is also the issue of Greece's repayment or non-reimbursement, so it is not a useful debate. It is not for nothing that four hours is devoted to this in the proposed paper consultation. There's a lot on the agenda. My request is therefore that this be dealt with in plenary. The following is a subsidiary of that. The request was not technically made by one of the political groups but by the Registrar of the Committee. That's a very strange thing to do. If the request is not made by the political groups, I think you should refer it back to committee so that we can simply take a decision tomorrow. I did not see the request on the agenda of the work.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-8.u22	I'd like to go along with that. I find "agenda-technical reasons" far too thin. If a ruler cannot be here at the time requested by the Chamber, we will receive a request, stating that there is a foreign obligation or an important conversation for this cabinet with someone who really cannot at any other time, but "agenda technical reasons"... I am sure you will conclude that the people who are listening think: the Prime Minister will not be on a campaign on Tuesday?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-8.u23	Since all kinds of reasons are now being put forward, I would like to reiterate that the VVD would like to have a note-taking meeting on Monday.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-8.u24	The PvdA would like a notation meeting on Monday.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-8.u25	In accordance with previous committee decisions, I have submitted that request to the Chamber; this has been the subject of a debate and there has been a fresh exchange of views, and I can only conclude that a majority of the House would like to have a note-taking meeting on Monday, from 11 a.m. to 3 p.m., and not a plenary debate on Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-8.u26	Mr. Chairman. You always ask us to report things in advance to the organisation of work. That has not happened in this case. Two: I have asked you three times to respond in substance to the fact that this was not requested by political parties in the committee, but by the Registrar. In retrospect, we hear it was the Prime Minister's office. In this way, I no longer have to put forward any arguments. I see that an important subject is simply being ripped off from Tuesday's agenda. Because people, including the Prime Minister, want to have other debates in all kinds of other places, he does not come to the House of Representatives to debate the preparation of the European summit. I don't think that's the way things are going. I therefore object to this and ask you, Mr President, to send us a letter stating (a) whether you found the way in which this was done in committee to be correct and (b) the precise agenda technical reasons of the Prime Minister so that we can see whether they are valid. There is a precise list of reasons that are valid for not being available for a debate in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-8.u27	I'll redirect your request to the Bureau and I'll respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-8.u28	I would ask you to send a reply by tomorrow. Then we may be able to take it back to the scheme.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-8.u29	The Bureau doesn't meet for two weeks, so I already know that that request is difficult for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-8.u30	You make a decision and you make it irreversible...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-8.u31	No, Mr Omtzigt, the Chamber makes a decision. First, the Permanent Chambers Committee on European Affairs takes a decision and then the Chamber. You have not yet taken the decision, but it seems that the Chamber will take a decision. I have no authority here, other than to pass it on to the Chamber, as I did. You have the right to ask for an explanation. It seems to me appropriate to do so in the usual way. I give the floor to Mrs Van Ark.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-8.u32	My colleague from the CDA is trying to get all kinds of images into the world here, while I indicated as a fact that the VVD wants the note-to-note meeting on Monday. I would therefore like to make it quite clear that we do not want a letter containing all kinds of things that are going to form brackets for all kinds of new images about the use of time in Cabinets. As a group, we have said that the VVD wants to hold a note-taking meeting on Monday.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-8.u33	As chairman of the Bureau, including the Bureau, I think it is useful that if a Member has a question about the procedures, it can simply get an answer to that. This is in response to your comment, Mrs Van Ark. I'll take turns and come back to you later. Mrs. Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-8.u34	Mr. Chairman. In any case, I would ask you to ask the Prime Minister to make it clear today what these agenda technical reasons are. The fact that the PvdA and the VVD do not want any more clarity about this before we decide that it can be done in a note-taking meeting is on them, but the opposition wants to know. I hope to be able to count on your support as President so that we can always have the right information about decisions of this kind.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-8.u35	I will tell my colleagues, especially those of the VVD, why I am asking for this. I think it is relevant because it was stated in the e-mail procedure that not only the groups of the VVD and the PvdA requested this, but also explicitly the Prime Minister's office. We all know that there may be reasons for postponing or relocating debates, especially when it comes to foreign commitments. But as far as I know, that's not going to happen. Then I find the question why the Prime Minister is making this request not very strange. It doesn't have to be a very comprehensive letter. I say this not only to you, Mr President, but also to colleagues in the Chamber. Since the Prime Minister's office asked for it itself, I think we should have a little more clarity about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-8.u36	Mr Fritsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-8.u37	It can't be...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-8.u38	I give you the floor, but I would like to say that I find it complicated if there are several spokesmen from the same party. I assume that you are now taking over from Mrs Helder, but in general it does not make the scheme more transparent. But I would like to give you the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-8.u39	This arrangement of work is nothing if a decision can simply be revoked. We agreed on Tuesday at the settlement that there would be a plenary debate, including on Greece and Greece's threat to open the borders. At that time it was said that we were going to meet in plenary on Tuesday. This is now being revoked by a committee that most of us do not have any influence on. It can't be. If you insist on this, Mr President, I simply want a roll-call vote on it, because it is a point of principle that a decision made in the course of the proceedings simply cannot be revoked.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-8.u40	That is why it is useful to have one spokesperson, because I indicated earlier that the decision that you think was taken was not taken yesterday in the organisation of work. That is separate from your request for a roll-call vote. You can always do that. However, your statement that a plenary debate on Tuesday was requested yesterday is not, in fact, correct. In the end, a letter was requested and it was agreed to add it to a debate to be held next week. That's what the facts are. I have noted your request for a roll-call vote. I'll be right with you, Mr. Van Bommel. I shall first give the floor to Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-8.u41	I asked yesterday in the order of business to add it to the plenary debate on Tuesday. That's exactly what it says in the Acts. The spokesmen said: I agree with Mr Omtzigt. Apparently they did not mean this point, but that was not entirely clear to me. I support the request of the Party for Animals to know the agenda technical reasons as soon as possible. I ask you, Mr President, for a technical explanation. A committee can, of course, ask at any time to organise a note-taking meeting. I question whether this has been done properly. However, a committee cannot remove anything from the plenary agenda. Requires a separate decision? Otherwise we will simply leave the debate on Tuesday and then hold a note-taking meeting with those who wish to attend.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-8.u42	Quite precisely: the debate on Tuesday has not yet been decided by the Chamber. That agenda hasn't been published yet. I sincerely believe that the request for a roll-call vote is perhaps the best solution in this complex situation. Today's Wednesday. I think it would be wise to vote on it jointly and severally tomorrow after the work has been arranged.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-8.u43	I think that the procedure through the mail traffic between the committee spokesmen who are dealing with it is in itself correct. I think it is also quite possible that a decision will be taken to hold a note-taking meeting on Monday. However, if this is to be done in part on the basis of the Rules of Procedure, of course, it is of paramount importance for the Prime Minister to request a shift in the Chamber's agenda, I believe that this should include an explanation of what makes this important shift in the agenda necessary. I support colleagues who are asking for a more detailed explanation of the significance of this shift in the agenda and I believe that we should have it before we take a decision on it tomorrow. Then I think we are following the right procedure and that is the correct order of things.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-8.u44	I usually propose at the end of a discussion that what has been said should be transferred to the cabinet via the stenogram, with the request to respond. Having read everything that has been said here, a decision will then be taken. I trust the House will agree to vote on this point tomorrow. We are holding the decision for today because a roll-call vote has been requested. Tomorrow, at the beginning of the afternoon meeting, after the order of business, we shall have a roll-call vote on the request for a note meeting on Monday. I told you, I'm going to transfer the stenogram to the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-8.u45	With the explicit request to receive a response from the Prime Minister by 11.00 a.m. tomorrow so that we can take note of that before the roll-call vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-8.u46	That comment will be added to the stenogram.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-8.u47	I have had the debate on planning on the basis of the consideration of political groups. I also said I don't need a letter. I know it's customary to allow letters. However, this letter will be used to bring an image into the world and my group does not need it. A letter from the Bureau is fine with me, but I would like to make it quite clear here that we do not need a letter on the presence of directors when considering whether or not a debate should be held. After all, the Chamber is about planning debates. The VVD Group wants a note-taking meeting on Monday.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-8.u48	I would like to add that the request for a note-to-note meeting on Monday also came clearly from us.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-8.u49	I would like to leave the discussion at this point. I always conduct a stenogram with a request. Businesses are then dealt with. I always hope that there will be a response, as the Chamber has asked. I propose to add a few points to the agenda. I hope these will work: the VAO Business Policy and Innovation. following a general consultation held on 10 March 2015, with the first speaker, Mr Schouten of the Christian Union; the VSO Draft Decision amending the Building Decision 2012 on the deregulation of the housing function and some other amendments (32757, No. 105), with Mr Smaling as the first speaker; the VAO Personnel Defence, following a general consultation held on 11 March 2015, with the first speaker, Jasper van Dijk of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-8.u50	I call Mr Koolmees.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-8.u51	Mr. Chairman. This morning we read in Het Financieele Dagblad that there are major abuses at ABN AMRO in Dubai. There is an internal investigation, according to the FD, and ABN has also fired bankers. It would be about circumventing strict rules designed to prevent money laundering and terrorist financing. The regulator in Dubai has also announced an in-depth investigation. D66, also on behalf of Mr Omtzigt of the CDA, would like to request a debate with the Minister of Finance, preceded by a best letter. In any case, we would like to see the following questions answered. Was the Minister aware of this? If so, how long has it been? What's his reaction? Can the Minister rule out the involvement of ABN AMRO in the financing of terrorism? What are the possible consequences of the current investigations? That's it. It is a debate and a letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-8.u52	You said "that's it" and you already wanted to run away. I would first like to ask if you will receive support for this request.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-8.u53	I didn't want to run away. I wanted to fold my paper.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-8.u54	Oh, sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-8.u55	A Dutch bank has of course also to behave abroad. We have many questions about this. I already sent it to the Minister this morning. I would like the answer to that question to be taken into account for the debate. I support the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-8.u56	The PvdA Group, I in particular, is always in favour of a best letter. I also have a number of questions. So I would like to add a few questions. This is a very serious situation and something really needs to be done about it, but I would like to await the Minister's replies to the letter first. In view of the relationship between the role of the Public Prosecutor's Office and the role of the Minister, I do not know whether a debate is the appropriate route. I would therefore like to ask these questions first and decide at another time whether I would like to support a debate. Right now, I think it's a little early, because I don't want the Chamber to be in the role of the Public Prosecutor or anything else.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-8.u57	But you do need to take stock of a number of questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-8.u58	Certainly, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-8.u59	I'll do that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-8.u60	As far as we are concerned, support for a letter, but with supplementary questions. Fraud in banks..................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-8.u61	The PVV supports the letter and the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-8.u62	Support for the letter and debate. Of course, we are not supposed to play for the public prosecutor here, but we are on the eve of the exhibition of ABN AMRO. In this context, these facts are indeed important, not necessarily to weigh the legal weight of this case but to what this means for the sale of the stock. The Chamber certainly has an involvement in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-8.u63	Mr Koolmees, the Chamber broadly shares the need for more information. I will therefore ask the committee clerk to take stock of the questions that exist so that a best letter can be sent to the Chamber. The majority of the House says that it only then wishes to decide whether or not to meet in plenary. At the moment, you do not have a majority for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-8.u64	Yeah, I heard that. We'll wait for the letter. On the basis of the answers, we can decide whether to request a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-8.u65	In any case, I will pass on the stenogram of this part of the meeting to the cabinet so that it knows that the questions are coming. I call Mrs Gesthuizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-8.u66	Mr. Chairman. There's good news. In my view, at least the flag went out when it appeared that the court in The Hague ruled that Dutch legislation based on European legislation on data retention is unlawful and that telecom companies and Internet providers who store telecom data, therefore, do not actually have a legal basis to do so. Like I said, I was very happy about that. I would like to discuss this with the cabinet as soon as possible. I would therefore like to request a debate on this matter. That is a little complicated, because I would like to have that debate with the Minister for Security and Justice. Let's hope we have it again soon. Prior to that, I would like to receive a letter from the cabinet explaining to the Chamber how the cabinet will interpret this legal ruling. The ruling only applies to a limited number of telecoms and internet providers, but I wonder if it would not be wise if this would have a general effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-8.u67	A request for support for holding a debate, preceded by a letter on the Dutch retention of telecom data.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-8.u68	In a rule of law, the government adheres to the rulings of a judge. In this respect, support for the rapid clarification requested by Mrs Gesthuizen by the cabinet, in this case the temporary Minister of Justice. I hope to receive this clarification in good time, at least before the beginning of next week. An additional AO is planned on March 25th. As far as my group is concerned, this could be added. I can also imagine that next week we will have a look at whether there is a Minister of Security and Justice with whom we want to have that debate, because that is a relevant question. If a minister were appointed a few days later, I would do the debate a few days later.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-8.u69	So you do support the request for a letter, but you do not support the request for a plenary debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-8.u70	My group does not really think it is necessary for a letter to be sent, but I am not going to make such a request. I therefore agree with a request for a letter, but I prefer to debate this during the AO, because that is the fastest way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-8.u71	You do not therefore support the request for a plenary debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-8.u72	I support Mrs Gesthuizen's request. My colleague Liesbeth van Tongeren asks me to say here that she is currently working on an initiative law to withdraw the retention obligation. This initiative law may be submitted at any time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-8.u73	That is good, but you do support the request for a debate now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-8.u74	My group does not support the request for a debate because an AO is already planned. That is purely about this subject. I also understand there's a letter on the way. That has already been requested.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-8.u75	My group supports the request for a letter, but not the request for a separate debate. We want this to be in line with the AA that is already planned.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-8.u76	Support for the letter. In the AO we continue to talk about this. I think that's the quickest way to deal with this case.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-8.u77	Support for the letter and debate. If the subject has already been discussed sufficiently during the AO, the SP is always willing to withdraw a 30-member debate. Until then, I would say: let us simply schedule such a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-8.u78	Mrs Gesthuizen, the Chamber broadly supports your request for a letter. You do not have the support of a majority in the Chamber for holding a plenary debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-8.u79	No, but it's nice that at least there's support for a letter. To the spokesperson of the VVD, let me say that the procedures here in the Lower House are indeed a very complicated subject. I don't think there was any procedure for a letter yet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-8.u80	This has put an end to the regulation of work.
