ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-2.u1	Mr. Chairman. Wendy de Wit is 36 years old. Wendy de Wit is multiple disabled. Wendy the White always laughs. She can't keep her mouth shut. She can't easily get her face in a tight fold. And so Wendy couldn't get a passport at first, because she couldn't meet the requirements for an official passport photo. Because such a photograph is subject to strict requirements to prevent fraud and abuse. Of course, these rules are never meant to bully the disabled. Wendy's photo had to be repeated dozens of times and in vain each time. How are we gonna fix this? Are the rules so strict that we exclude some people with disabilities or were the officials at the town hall not aware of the correct rules? Isn't it true that civil servants are allowed to make an exception for medical or physical reasons? Isn't that what customization is all about here? Isn't that the human dimension here? After a lot of media attention, Wendy got a passport with a nice picture of a laughing Wendy. Over the last few days we have received many emails and phone calls from people who report that they have problems with passport photos, because they themselves or one of their children or family members have a disability. How is the Minister going to ensure that all officials in municipalities are well informed that exceptions can be made for a photograph or a fingerprint of disabled people or multiple disabled people and that intellectual disabled people and people with physical disabilities should also be able to obtain a passport in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-2.u2	Mr. Chairman. This was a sad event. It is known that there are rules for passport photos. These follow from international agreements and are mainly intended to enable automatic facial recognition at the border, which increases the pace there. However, Article 28 (4) of the passport implementing regulation, which has been in force since the new criteria were laid down in the law, states that the municipality official concerned may make an exception if there are medical reasons for doing so. If there is reason to doubt that, he can ask for a medical explanation. But in general, even without that medical explanation, it will be clear that there are those medical reasons. Then an exception can be made. This is also on the website that contains instructions for photographers on how to deal with different situations. In this case, the Ministry contacted the municipality of Zwijndrecht. Something did go wrong there. For the record, a photo has been handed in once. There may have been dozens of pictures taken by the father, but they have not been rejected dozens of times; this is not how it happened. The photo has now been approved, but again, this was a sad event. That in itself doesn't happen that often in my knowledge. Of course, there are many other things that people with disabilities encounter. In order to ensure that this never happens again, I will send a newsletter this afternoon to all the municipal authorities and to the contact persons in the municipalities that have to do with this topic. As a matter of fact, I'll be at the congress of the Dutch Association for Civil Affairs tomorrow. On that occasion, I will also draw attention to the fact that they can and should therefore make an exception when necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-2.u3	I very much welcome the Minister's undertaking that today, this afternoon after Question Time, a letter will be sent to all the municipalities and all the officials concerned. In this way, all officials in the Netherlands know that someone with intellectual disabilities, physical disabilities or multiple disabilities should also be able to get a passport photo and make a fingerprint and that exceptions have been made. That must be in the minds of all those officials. I do have a few more questions. In the last few days, the SP has been getting a lot of reports from people. Where can I send it? May I forward them to the Minister? How can I reassure these people? How can we ensure that, if these people go back to the municipality, it will be properly arranged from this afternoon after Question Time? The minister rightly said that the photo is also intended for facial recognition. Now Wendy has a passport, with a real, smiling Wendy in it, but is she gonna get in trouble when she gets on a plane or takes a vacation?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-2.u4	If there are more complaints relating to the taking of passport photos and the way in which they are handled, I would be delighted to receive them. I'll lead them through then. Of course, the most direct route is with the municipality itself, but if there is a lack of understanding, I would be happy to draw attention to it. In the category of people whose photo cannot be taken in the standard way, no automatic facial recognition will take place either. That's okay in itself, because there's always a line to hand over your passport to a person at a window. That person must then convince himself that passport photo and person match. This is no different for disabled people than for others.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-2.u5	I would like to thank the Minister very much. He took the problem seriously: after Question Time, all the municipalities receive a letter. I hope the Wendy's of this world won't have any more problems with this. Everyone has the right to a passport. Everyone should be able to go on vacation and travel. I welcome the Minister's commitment that if municipalities are obstructed, they can report to him and he will resolve it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-2.u6	Mrs. Dik has a follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-2.u7	The Christian Union stands for an inclusive society. Everyone has to be able to participate and everyone counts. We are going to ratify the UN Disability Convention with each other to underline that. Will the Minister, in all his comments on the problem outlined by Mr Van Raak, take the view that the UN Disability Convention is not ratified for nothing and that there can therefore be no discussion about whether or not there is a medical statement that people who have a disability are simply photographed in an adequate way for their passport?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-2.u8	Actually, I've just agreed to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-2.u9	Thank you for your reply and thank you for coming to the Chamber.
