ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u1	Mr. Chairman. Once again, a T.B.S. has been able to take off during a supervised probationary leave. This ticking time bomb has been able to walk freely from last Tuesday to last Saturday. In the meantime, he has been caught again, but for my group, of course, this is not the end of the matter. It is not only the great risk to society's security, it is also extremely sad for the victims' families. You'll find out that your brother's killer or your kid's out there again. We're talking about someone who was on supervised leave. Then how did they escape? We can see that this criminal was far from ready for leave, otherwise he wouldn't have escaped. We also know that almost 7% of the TBs who go on leave are on leave: that's 1 in 14! Perhaps the Secretary of State will again say the soothing words that there are 70,000 leave movements a year. Does he agree with our group that if the pant stick had been applied, it would not have been possible to escape and that the risks to society and the suffering to the survivors would have been limited? My group has now asked for measures to stop using society as a testing ground for convicted criminals. For this year's summer recess, I'm gonna try one more time. That is why my final question is: what measures is the Secretary of State going to take to ensure that, in future, tbs can take leave of absence?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. It makes sense that there are questions. This cannot, of course, be accepted. Someone who has imposed a PIJ measure and is after gruesome acts, should not squeak out. That person should be punished. Resocialization is, of course, part of that punishment. Part of that resocialization is supervised leave. That should take place in a correct manner. If someone squeaks out like this, it is particularly unfortunate for the victim's family and, of course, unpleasant for society. It's a good thing the next of kin were briefed quickly. It's even better that we were able to pick up and lock up the person in question on Saturday. It is also good to report that he is not currently suspected of committing criminal offences in the meantime. Mrs. Helder asked: couldn't he have escaped with a pant stick? You never know what you can do, but it's gonna be a lot harder. In fact, it is often the case that supplementary measures are taken in the case of accompanied leave. This was not the first supervised leave of this person. It's being built up. Over time, the re-socialization continues. If it often goes well, it is no longer appropriate to take measures like a pant stick, so as not to stand in the way of resocialisation. Then how can this happen with guidance? To put it bluntly: because the person walks faster than the escorts. If there are no further measures because leave has gone well on several occasions, this can unfortunately happen. I can't completely rule out this happening. I can't guarantee it'll never happen. We'll do everything we can to limit it. Mrs Helder herself mentioned the leave movements in 2014. I'd still inform the Chamber about that. The letter isn't quite finished yet, but I can already highlight this information. It involved 30,000 leave movements and 58 withdrawals. So we are talking about 0.2% of the cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u3	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for replying. I heard the Secretary of State say we're doing everything we can to limit it. That is not the case, because the Secretary of State would say: we will reverse the policy with that pant stick. Then it's not a "no, unless," but a "yes, unless," because leave must be earned. Apparently, that didn't work out here again. Resocialization hasn't helped and I don't want to remind you of the treatment either, because this figure was in the TBs. My group has never been in favour of this. This example shows why we are not. Resocialization hasn't helped, nor has the treatment. Isn't it wise to reverse the policy so that the Secretary of State doesn't come next time? If there is a next time, he can at least say 'we have done everything we can'. Then we are talking about possible other measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u4	I am not in favour of abolishing a PIJ measure. Accompanied leave is part of the treatment and rehabilitation process, in which freedoms must indeed be earned. Again, this was not the first time this person was granted leave. Of course, it also has repercussions in a different way. The person is locked in again. The permission to leave has been revoked. So it can't just be continued. That needs to be re-treated. Apart from the preventive measures, of course, we also have measures that have consequences for the person concerned if he is careless in dealing with the accumulated credit in this way. I see no reason to stop any form of socialization.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u5	In conclusion, the Secretary of State says: it was not the first time this person went on leave. Then I say, it wasn't the first tbs to run. If you really want to do anything about it, at least limit it as much as possible. Unfortunately, I didn't hear the Secretary of State say that. He says, "I'm still in favour of socialisation." However, you can still reason a bit back and say: we do want as much security as possible and in that context we choose the pantstok policy and 'yes, unless'. I'm sorry I didn't hear that from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u6	I understand the Secretary of State no longer needs a response. Mr Bishop has another question for the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u7	I can imagine the Secretary of State holding on to the accompanying leave as part of the rehabilitation programme. However, if we repeatedly find that people who are on that programme are still taking advantage of the opportunity by avoiding and therefore fleeing, then I can also imagine that the Secretary of State says: if so, then we should look again closely at the implementation and application of that supervised leave. Maybe we should be more strict about that. Can the Secretary of State share that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u8	In general, I agree with that. More specifically, it is a balance between 'an incident cannot be ruled out' and 'when is the number of incidents so high that you let it have repercussions for policy'. After such an incident, the person concerned is carefully examined for repercussions that it must have for progress and possibly for future socialisation. In general, I do not think that we are now at a point where we say that there is something wrong with the whole process. In the letter that is still coming to the Chamber, too, we will go into more detail on the figures I have just mentioned. So the Chamber can see how they are specified. In the category "misfits" there are also things like late arrivals, sometimes involving hours. In order to give the Chamber a better understanding, these figures come to her as soon as possible. It can then assess whether it is so serious that there is a need for a fundamental change in policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u9	Thank you for your answers and for coming to the Chamber.
