ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-4.u1	I would like to welcome the Foreign Minister to the First Chamber. I inform the Chamber that the Minister must leave here at 1.30 p.m. at the latest in connection with a visit to the King in Wassenaar. I shall therefore suspend the debate in good time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-4.u2	Madam President. In 1977 I started with Europe on the other side and in 2015 I will also end with Europe in the First Chamber. The Netherlands is a small country with a strong economic position. Our country is highly developed and integrated into European, transatlantic and global structures in many areas. It has an open view outwards and a rich tradition, knowledge and experience in the field of consultation and cooperation. The Netherlands should stabilise and develop this position in order to be a significant partner in Europe. The position of our country in the world runs primarily through the European Union. In addition to our economic interests, our values are shared and safeguarded. The European project is unprecedented in European history and is the best guarantee of peace, security, stability and prosperity. This is not self-evident for the future. On the contrary, this requires permanent maintenance and new political investment in constantly changing circumstances. This also requires the European Union to give shape and substance to its foreign policy. External security conditions force more than ever European countries to consider common efforts in the area of peace and security. The position of Europe and the Netherlands in the world has changed. The economic powers outside Europe are gaining ground and the clash of values and interests is forcing more realism and consultation. A strong Europe is therefore of national importance to us. The CDA Group therefore welcomes the fact that the new European Commission is more political than all the previous ones. Juncker is the first President of the European Commission elected by the European Parliament with political support and a clear political mandate. The European Parliament has also gained in power, influence and political weight. It is co-legislator and initiator in many areas. The new European Parliament is ambitious and successful. It is involved in the preparation of new legislation. Slowly but surely, the European Parliament is implementing the interinstitutional agreements contained in the Treaty of Lisbon which come close to the right of initiative. This is becoming increasingly a shared responsibility with the Commission, and that process continues. At the same time, we can see that the European Parliament is increasingly aware of the importance of good cooperation with national parliaments. It is a mutual interest that should strengthen the legitimacy of and support for Europe. We still lack too much support for this. But isn't that also due to misrepresentation because Brussels is getting the black tip too often and because of a growing lack of knowledge about the European Union? In this debate, too, I will not fail to support 'Europe' in education. We have felt this is necessary for years. If you hold speeches in the country, you know that there is a great lack of basic knowledge of the European Union. The government is in favour of the use of political accountability structures by the European Commission through national parliaments, according to the State of Union. An interesting thought, but what should we imagine? Is this information or a form of consent? The European Commission is gradually becoming a political body that is taking a small step towards a form of government. That was a bridge too far during the convention, but then the germ was laid that has now taken root. President Juncker has performed excellently with new tasks for the Commission, cluster presidents and a strategic agenda for the long term. More Europe in big business, less in small business. The small committee that the CDA Group in the First Chamber has always supported has been approached materially by this clustering. During the euro crisis, the European Council played an important driving role and gained power. This has resulted in pressure being placed on the Community method and in increasing the importance of intergovernmental trends, sometimes without commitment. But the European Council has bitten the dust in the choice of the President. The Netherlands has always argued for a strong Commission as a guardian of the Community interest, as a counterweight to a directorium of the large countries. How does the Minister assess the development of power relations within the European Union? He said in his speech in Leiden that the quality of the institutions should be improved. What's that supposed to mean? What does the Minister mean by a "new, sober European contract"? Can he specify that in his reply? The State of the Union begins with the challenges facing the European Union, challenges that call for an answer. The first statement by the newly elected President of the Commission was: this is the last chance for Europe. In doing so, he expressed the urgency and put geopolitics back on the agenda. Europe must redefine its importance. At a time when Europe is gradually reducing its financial, cultural, political and strategic importance in the world, joint action is an imperative. Europe is faced with the choice: either greater integration in a number of key areas or growing irrelevance on the world stage. Is that how the Minister sees it? I have just returned from the Euro-Asian economic summit in Istanbul, where the power shift from west to east was very much at the centre, i.e. from Europe to Asia. I would ask the Minister to give this a little consideration. Are we sufficiently aware in the Member States of the rapidly changing geopolitical relations, I ask the Minister? Does he see a development towards a waning influence of Europe on the world stage? Is it not the greatest internal challenge to keep the European Union together and develop a shared vision of Europe's future? Is the weakness not right in the internal division? I shall come back to this later. If something has become clear again in the past few years of crisis, it is the mutuality of fate. This is all the more true for an export-oriented country like the Netherlands. Foreign developments have a direct impact on the room for manoeuvre for our country. Anyone who denies it, as I say to certain parties, or doesn't see it, puts the head in the sand. For prosperity, stability and security in Europe, the Member States are, as has been said, mutually dependent. This requires a strong euro, much more far-reaching common foreign and defence policy and also solidarity within the European Union, with financial solidarity linked to solidarity to reform. According to the Minister, the European Union is surrounded by a ring of instability in the east and in the south. That's an understatement. We are surrounded by civil wars. The war in eastern Ukraine, not the worst one compared to ISIS, must be regarded as one of the most dramatic events after the fall of the Berlin Wall. The war is a deep breach of confidence between the European Union and Russia, with potentially long-term deeply disturbed relations and confrontations. Instead of a strategic partnership, we are faced with renewed enmity, with far-reaching consequences. "No new dividing lines in Europe" was called in 1989. That beckoning perspective has now disappeared and we have missed an historic opportunity. The prospect of a stable, peaceful and free Europe that came within reach with the fall of the Wall is now in danger of turning into a new fault line for a long time. Instead of growing political, economic, cultural and educational cooperation, we are at risk of a new confrontation. The key question is: can we still prevent geopolitical relations on the European continent from being poisoned? Is there any way to repair the deep breach of confidence on either side? The annexation of Crimea and its covert involvement in Eastern Ukraine prove that treaties no longer guarantee the respect of sovereignty. This flagrant violation of international law Treaties have rightly been severely condemned and have led to a sharp reaction from the West. Putin's actions are unacceptable in this respect. There is a difference of opinion as to whether sanctions were the most sensible way forward. The Minsk II agreement gives hope for a cautious positive turn. We share the link between economic sanctions and the implementation of the Minsk agreement. The fact that the European Council took up the initiative of Merkel, Hollande........................................................................................................................................................... But how closed is that front still, I ask the Minister. Is there no controversy between the Member States? How strong is the unity within the European Union when it comes to sanctions policy? In addition to pressure on Russia, the Minister at the same time underlines the crucial importance of dialogue with Russia. All communication channels must remain open. But is there still a dialogue? Is it not regrettable in this context that the Council of Europe's Assembly, which is an excellent body of dialogue and bridges, is no longer able to play its role because of the absence of the Russian delegation? In my opinion, it lacks a sense of shared interests. In addition to the economy, security and stability on this continent, we have to think of Syria, ISIS, the Middle East and terrorism. How does the Minister assess the role of Mogherini in this whole? The European Union cannot possibly develop a security strategy for the whole continent without involving Russia, however unreal it seems at the moment. However, the European Union must work together to strengthen a common defence. Every crisis has led to more Europe in the past. That must also be one of the lessons of this crisis. The Minister promised the Chamber a note on the broad relationship with Russia. When can we face them? What are we supposed to do with that? Do we think that a strong Russia or a divided Russia is important for the stability of the world? Is it not time to analyse the causes of this crisis, the events in Ukraine and the lessons to be learned from it? The CDA's Lower House Group has already called for this. Does the Minister intend to promote such an investigation? However much Putin's actions can be rejected, there is also a lack of critical self-reflection on the EU side. Certainly Russia's military doctrine of 2010 allowing the deployment of Russian military forces to protect Russians abroad, a number of neighbouring countries rightly see it as a threat. This is understandable given the dramatic events in those countries before and after the Second World War. But on the NATO and EU side, incomprehensible errors of assessment have been made. I can say here that General Breedlove's performance is more of a firecracker. Where is the Secretary-General of NATO in this respect, who is supposed to play that role? The border between East and West in Europe runs right through Ukraine. The Orthodox East feels connected to Russia. Ukraine is a kind of motherland for Russia; emotionally important for Russia. The association agreement with Ukraine, without taking into account Russian interests, has been an error of assessment. Rob de Wijk claims that we were totally and completely wrong about the Russians. I quote: 'The West has lost sight of the Russian trauma of the break-up of the Soviet Union. More than once, the promise not to extend the Western sphere of influence to former Soviet Union countries has not been fulfilled." The American teacher of political science at the University of Chicago John Mearsheimer wrote an article in the October issue of Foreign Affairs last year entitled "Why the Ukraine is the West's Fault?" Mearsheimer explains in detail the causes which, in his view, led to this civil war. He identifies solutions in which he sees Ukraine as a neutral buffer between NATO and Russia a la Austria during the Cold War. A sovereign country that is open to both sides and takes great advantage of it. NATO membership should be excluded. At the same time, an economic recovery plan must be paid by the EU, the IMF, Russia and the US to help the country recover. That's Mearsheimer's idea. Does this not mean that it has also missed a clear partnership strategy towards Russia on the EU side? A comprehensive report from the UK House of Lords also concludes that the EU has "sleepwalked" into the Ukrainian marsh, mainly due to a manifest lack of analytical capacity and political insight. The CDA shares this analysis as CDA spokesperson Knops argued in the Lower House. I ask the Minister to respond to Mearsheimer's article and the House of Lords report. As I said, Minsk gives a glimmer of hope. Even though there is growing doubt as to whether Putin is to be dealt with. Especially Bundeskanzler Merkel has invested in that relationship. With Merkel, the CDA Group underlines that the supply of arms to Ukraine must now be excluded. At the Munich Security Conference, Merkel took a clear stand. I quote: 'Military support to Ukraine would lead to more victims, not a Russian defeat'. She argued with reference to her own experience that we must be patient and that she is 100% sure that our principles will prevail. Only a political solution can put an end to the Ukrainian civil war. Membership of NATO must be expressly excluded. This must be clear to all parties. At the same time, we note that the situation in Ukraine is extremely depravable. There's not much to talk about. Can the Minister state what the real situation is? Gross national product in 2014 was not much higher than in 1989. Between 1994 and 2007, Ukraine had eight MF programmes that did not deliver any results. How sure is there now that a willingness to reform can be continued? What are the safeguards against this? I fear that it will take fabulous amounts to give substance to that recovery plan. Who's gonna pay for that? What kind of funds does that money come from? The IMF's decision to transfer EUR 17 billion is described by the IMF as a political decision without complying with IMF conditionality. Will the Minister respond to this? The European Council of 19 and 20 March calls for the urgent adoption of the third macro financial assistance package to Ukraine. What are the amounts involved? Is this assistance linked to reform measures? Member States are also called upon to provide technical assistance. Fine case, but what's going to come of this? In addition to the OSCE, which plays an important role, the expertise of the Council of Europe must also be fully exploited. Is it being used up enough? The fourth Eastern Partnership Summit will take place in Riga on 21 and 22 May. The neighbourhood policy was developed in 2004 to strengthen stability and security on the European continent. This includes the Eastern Partnership. This is now in need of revision, partly because of the lack of success. The basis was reciprocity. European efforts and financial support face obligations for partners in areas such as rule of law, democracy, human rights and the market economy. The results are so disappointing that last year the European Council concluded that the neighbourhood policy needs to be adapted. There has been a failure of a policy with even in some cases counterproductive effects. The Minister acknowledges that the objective is still relevant, but that its achievement has come more farther than nearer. The CDA Group shares that observation. But there is no analysis of the causes here, as well as the question of where the EU has failed. Will the Minister address the latter in particular? Does not the lack of a step-by-step approach, a differentiated approach by country and, in addition, expectations and prospects for EU membership wrongly raised by a number of EU Member States too high? The CDA Group supports the fundamental review of the neighbourhood policy. The geopolitical situation at the EU's external borders has changed dramatically with significant differences on the eastern and southern borders. The government's approach to a differentiated approach, no prospect of EU membership, a central role for the High Representative in coordination and implementation shares the CDA Group. Can I ask whether Article 49 of the association agreements does not provide for membership, at least the prospect of membership? Will the Minister again address the question of how to ultimately promote and strengthen stability and security in the EU's neighbouring countries with an inclusive approach from the EU? Is it not important that the interests of our neighbours should be taken into account? This is a very essential question which has been of little importance in the past. Commissioner Hahn said that this should be one of the lessons for the future. Should we not think in a much longer period of time about promoting processes of change and should we not come mainly from the countries themselves? What are the main tools to promote these processes? How does the Minister see the new neighbourhood policy in this light? Would the Minister like to explain what he means by 'where there is more agreement on central values and where there are greater interests for the EU, should the commitment be greater than in countries where this is less so'? Is the shirt closer than the skirt? Do these central values have a different specific weight, if any? Do I have to deduce from this that there is a arbitrariness in the attention to human rights? Is this a strategic interest or is there in some cases a lack of commitment and a lack of responsibility? Is there not double standards in the world? The consequences of the crisis in Ukraine, Iraq, Syria and North Africa are still difficult to predict. But so much is clear: Western international order, democracy and open economies are under pressure. The US's attempts to export the Western democratic model have failed. The AIV states in its opinion "The Netherlands and the Arab region" that this has led to western reforms in almost none of these countries. This relates in particular to the Arab region. The AIV proposes an approach which is fundamental to the nature of the objectives to be pursued, but is pragmatic in the ways to be followed. How does the Minister see that? The realization that changes have to come from within has increased. Democracy and state formation are complex issues and take time, sometimes it takes generations. By organising elections, you do not yet have institutions that are supported by the population. The AIV recommends that governments and representatives of the people in the West should take this into account in the objectives of foreign policy. That's quite a change of attitude. Or I'm wrong about that. That's what I'm asking the Minister. The West is no longer a leader in the world. Other countries with different cultural and/or religious views are increasing in importance. They no longer accept that the West is the measure of things. In a number of ways, they even see the secularized Western world as a threat. How does the Minister assess this development? I told you before, we're on our way to a new world order. The rules laid down by the Western countries are no longer leading. This calls on the EU to adapt international policy. Moreover, the question is whether the US and the EU are always in parallel, while respecting our alliance. Can the Minister elaborate on that? This applies not only to the relationship with Russia, but also to the recent participation in the Asian Infrastructure Bank, the counterpart of the US-dominated Asian Development Bank. The second economy in the world, China, has not so far been given a full position in the World Bank and the IMF. The country is blocked by the United States. The emerging powerful new economies no longer feel sufficiently represented in the old institutions and seek gremia outside to be heard and have influence. The Asian Infrastructure Bank is a reaction to this. China has asked the European Union to help set this up. Why has the EU not responded to this? Why not participate as the European Union in a development into new, powerful international structures that are a clear signal from a changing financial world order? This must be part of the European Union's new foreign policy. In a remarkably frank interview in Het Financieele Dagblad, the President of the Nederlandsche Bank, dated 13 March last. The bell's ringing. Only if the euro area countries give more control to the European Commission will Europe be able to catch up economically with the United States. The economies of the Member States need to grow closer together. More political integration is a prerequisite for greater budgetary integration. For this we need more powers to go to Brussels. This includes a separate tax area for the European Commission. Will the Minister respond to these statements? Is a contract as he suggested enough? When we see how France, let alone Greece, deal with the existing agreements, the question is whether the existing division of sovereignty is sufficient to guarantee the euro in the future. Asking the question is actually answering it. However much the European Semester means to strengthen the functioning of EMU, nothing can be imposed. Of the 19 years, France has failed for 14 years to fulfil the commitment made by the Member States themselves. If this does not change, this will remain the Achilles heel of EMU. In the State of the Union, the Government states that there is no need for a treaty change as far as it is concerned. The Dutch institutional reform agenda "focus, balance sheet, legitimacy" can be implemented within the framework of the current Treaties. The government is committed to extending and strengthening the focus on the implementation of the recommendations made to Member States in the framework of the European Semester. The government is also committed to increasing ownership by Member States themselves in the country-specific recommendations. This year is marked by a debate on the future of the European Union. At the heart of this is the question of how the E of EMU can be made more binding. The current intergovernmental nature appears to be too non-binding. The Stability Pact is an intergovernmental treaty that allows individual countries to block. In the end, is there any way to escape a treaty amendment? In the State of the Union, the government is avoiding this key problem. Is this motivated by fear of a referendum? In this context, we look forward to the Four Presidents Report which should set out a sustainable future for EMU. There is no escape from the question of whether or not more sovereignty should be transferred. This report should include the agenda for further economic integration and it will be difficult to ignore the communitarisation of enhanced cooperation in a leading group of euro area countries. This is, by the way, a repeated plea from the CDA Group. The new European Commission is right to focus on jobs, growth and competitiveness. The unacceptable high level of unemployment, particularly youth unemployment, is undermining Europe's support in a number of countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-4.u3	I would like to comment briefly on the transfer of sovereignty advocated by Mr Van der Linden. Mr Van der Linden has an extremely coherent pro-European vision. In his view, increasing monetary integration also involves political integration. Does this mean that the CDA Group completely abandons the principle of subsidiarity within Europe?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-4.u4	No, that's the right thing to do. The principle of sovereignty means doing something at the level at which you can act most effectively. This means, therefore, that we in Europe must start by giving greater recognition to the regions and leaving the Member States what is possible and what Member States can effectively use. It is necessary to transfer to the European level what is no longer possible at national level.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-4.u5	And that is less and less in Mr Van der Linden's view?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-4.u6	It is true where the major core problems are concerned. I mentioned monetary policy, but also economic policy. They are linked, which shows the crisis since 2008. I would also like to mention foreign policy and, in particular, defence. We cannot make a dent in a package of butter if we are not going to do much more in common in the field of defence. Then we need not so much to transfer sovereignty to other countries as to share sovereignty with them in order to show the citizens that we can tackle problems decisively and effectively.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-4.u7	Finally. Mr van der Linden is in favour of monetary and economic policy. Does this also have implications for fiscal policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-4.u8	I think this should indeed have consequences. By the way, that's not new. The Treaty of Rome already stated that the European Union must have its own resources. That statement was taken up in the Treaty of Lisbon. The European Union therefore already has a limited amount of own resources. It would be very good if we had our own resources in Europe, limited and better controlled, of course. Then we will also get rid of the fixed, bad idea that Europe costs money. Now it's all "net contributor, net receiver." That has led to a lot of wrong views. The total European expenditure amounts to only about 3% of total public expenditure in the European Union. Of course, there too, we must monitor the use of citizens' tax dollars. This monitoring can be improved. We know that. We have argued this so many times here. To say that we should not have that discussion, no. I do not think that is right in the context of what we have already done with regard, among other things, to monetary policy. The completion of the internal market, to which much can still be done, must be accompanied by a digital union, an energy union, at least a better functioning energy market, and the creation of a European research area. The European Research Area is particularly important. This will help re-launch investment and promote economic growth. Economic reforms are beginning to bear fruit in a number of countries. That is an encouraging signal. Elections will take place in the United Kingdom on 7 May. Prime Minister Cameron wants to negotiate with Brussels, if he wins the election. What, however, is there to negotiate? About less regulation? Fine. Fortunately, the European Commission is working on this. However, we should not have revolutionary expectations of it. Prime Minister Cameron wants to turn the European Union into a free trade area. That discussion was held in the last century. The EFTA was not a success. Will the Minister confirm that for the Netherlands too, the free movement of persons cannot and cannot be called into question? What is there to negotiate for the United Kingdom, which is not a member of the euro area and uses opt-outs generously? I think that is what Churchill said in his famous 1948 speech in The Hague: 'We are with Europe, but not in Europe'. It is time for choices to be made. We cannot and must not want to pay every price to keep the United Kingdom on board, however important it is in itself. The United Kingdom can no longer be seen by the European Union. Europe must move on. The world doesn't wait, developments continue in high-speed rail. The Dutch Presidency was discussed in an oral discussion. The CDA supports the government's approach to directing this Presidency towards the elaboration of the Strategic Agenda for the Commission, with its own focus on metropolitan developments. The CDA recommends that, following the Luxembourg Presidency, metropolitan, cross-border regions should play an important role in this process. I am considering tabling a motion on this matter in the second term. Clearly, the CDA is a pro-European party. The Netherlands belongs to the leading group and should give more leadership to give Europe a place in the world and to maintain it. We don't have a choice. The European interest is the Dutch interest. We should not be uncritical, but consistent, focusing on the major cross-border issues and on the long term. The European Union is more than a free trade area. It is essential that leaders and representatives of the people should not stand up to the European institutions, but should make it clear to the citizens that we are Europe ourselves. We share the responsibility for the decisions that are being taken. I hope that there will be more public and political debate on Europe. Europe must be at the top of the political agenda for the future. The danger must be avoided that within Europe we are dealing exclusively with ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-4.u9	If I understand correctly, Mr Van der Linden says that the European Union is living in security and peace. Did I get that correctly?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-4.u10	The European project is a peace project at the heart of the matter. Never before has any generation lived so long in peace in this part of Europe. This is due in particular to the fact that, after the Second World War, we conducted a policy of reconciliation that led to European institutions, linking destiny and doing what is necessary for our citizens to continue to promote peace, security and prosperity in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-4.u11	That is clear, but how does Mr Van der Linden see the role of NATO in this? To what extent would we still live here in peace if it had not been for NATO?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-4.u12	NATO has played and must play a very important role. Europe must take much greater responsibility for this. A European pillar must therefore be established within NATO. To this end, the European Union can develop a common defence policy. I think that this is a responsibility that we all have to take: no more money for defence if it is not shared in division of labour and investment programmes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-4.u13	But do you see peace and security remain when NATO is no longer there? It seems to me that peace is primarily at the heart of NATO.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-4.u14	Of course, NATO has played a very important role in this, but so has the European Union. When we started in 1958, we had two models for a reason: the free trade model, which was only about money and trade, and the integration model. All those countries that took part in the free trade model called the EFTA, the European Free Trade Association, have gradually moved to the European Union, because it was so successful. You cannot separate defence from the values and standards, the soft power policy and the prosperity and well-being of the citizens. The European Union has played a fantastic role in this, and it must do so in the future. This means that we must increasingly share sovereignty with others who are willing to do so within the European Union. I would rather do that with 28 countries, but if that is not possible, then with a leading group like the euro group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-4.u15	Madam President. Today we are holding the last General European Reviews in this term of office of the Chamber. Again, a cove calls for our attention to subjects. At the same time, this forces the necessary restrictions and choices to be made. We are not alone in this, as the Juncker Commission, in its first annual work programme, entitled 'A new start', is focusing on a stronger focus of the European Union, called for by the European Council in its Strategic Agenda of June 2014. This has resulted in ten political guidelines for the new Commission, a significantly lower number of new proposals for 2015 than previously usual and even a list of 80 pending proposals, which are proposed to delete or revise them. The VVD Group welcomes this approach and the support of the cabinet and looks forward to the Commission being able to translate its intentions into action. The current geopolitical situation requires decisive action, both in the EU's internal and external action. It is also what the citizens are asking for, as we appear to be slowly climbing out of the deep end of the financial and economic crisis, but at the same time still face the consequences, as well as increasing threats from outside. And decisiveness might prove to be the last resort to regaining confidence in the EU and thus rising above discussions about more or less Europe, North and South, East and West, grexit and Brexit. In my group's opinion, our country with its open economy has no choice but to have a strong and decisive Europe, an EU that focuses on key issues and leaves the Member States room and allows them to support and explain European policies in their own countries, all according to the adage 'European what needs to be done nationally'. In doing so, a better definition of the distinction between European and national responsibilities will increase citizens' understanding of and understanding of European cooperation. Transparency is also a prerequisite here sine qua non. There is no doubt that, in addition to the Member States, economic recovery in the EU as a whole is at the top of the agenda. The revival of the economy and the creation of new jobs are the two sides of the same coin. The fact that unemployment among young people, which is unacceptable, is the first priority, is absolutely justified, as we are already talking about a loss generation here and there in Europe. It is a matter of reality that the Commission wants to leave the Member States behind in this regard in particular and sees its own role primarily as facilitating and stimulating. Part of this is the consolidation of the mechanisms leading to a renewed financial and economic stability in the EU and the fulfilment of commitments made; Mr van der Linden also spoke about this. In this connection, the VVD Group looks at the Commission's indulgence towards France with concern and indignation, especially since countries such as Spain, Portugal and Ireland have had their fingers crossed in the recent past, not to mention Greece. Surely this should be regarded as unjust and indigestible in those countries? We would like to hear from the government how it is possible for France to get away with this every time. France's unstable financial and economic position has a negative impact on the stability of the EU and the euro area as a whole. Like Mr Van der Linden, we look forward with interest to the Four Presidents Report, which should lead the way to better economic governance in the euro area. In its appreciation of the Commission's 2015 work programme, the Cabinet expressed its support for the Commission's commitment to the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership (TTIP) negotiations. The aim is to conclude an ambitious and balanced agreement with the US, safeguarding European standards in the fields of health, environment and data protection and in the social field. That last word makes the eyebrows frown. Being free-guarded is something like staying out of the loop, but you would prefer to see the European standards mentioned in the Treaty also being raised to a standard. Together with the increasing opposition to the Treaty as a whole in the European Parliament and the recent motion of the House of Representatives against ISDS, this leads us to ask the government to assess the feasibility of TTIP. We would also like to hear what the government intends to do to reverse the negative trend in both the European Parliament and the House of Representatives and where it stands in the debate on ISDS. Closer to home, cross-border cooperation plays a role in the Euregion. Unfortunately, we have to note that the authorities on both sides of the border are always unable to solve the problems that Dutch workers face when they want to work in Germany or Belgium. The project GROS of the Ministry of the Interior and Kingdom Relations, which has been going on for years, has also not provided any relief in this respect. Recently, the House of Representatives called on the Minister of Economic Affairs to come up with solutions and thus to contribute to reducing unemployment, in this case in the North and East Netherlands. The Minister is now considering setting up a working group to make a problem inventory. However, this is completely unnecessary, because the problems have long been widely known in the border region. What is needed are solutions at ministerial level between the Netherlands and the adjacent German Länder, as well as between the Netherlands and Belgium. In its State of the European Union 2015, the Cabinet identified cross-border mobility of workers within the EU in the context of the free movement of persons and services as one of the four fundamental freedoms of the European Union which brings great benefits. This seems to us to be the reason why this freedom should also be reflected in the Euregions. I'd like to get a reaction from the government. During last year's European reflections, I paid attention to the highly instructive opinion of the International Affairs Advisory Council of January 2014, entitled "The rule of law, guarantee for European citizens and foundation of European cooperation'. In its opinion, the AIV considers the guarantee of the rule of law to be crucial for the survival of the EU, which is not only an economic community but also a community of values. The AIV recommends, inter alia, that the legal status of the candidate countries be reviewed not only before their accession, but also periodically thereafter, and that such a periodic review be carried out for the other Member States in the form of peer reviews. Nine days after last year's reflections, the then Minister for Foreign Affairs sent the government's Juice of Law to this Chamber. The cabinet responded not only to the AIV opinion, but also to the Commission's Communication Framework for the Rule of Law and the EU Justice Scoreboard 2014. According to the response, the Cabinet has been actively promoting a mechanism to strengthen the rule of law in the EU Member States and to enable dialogue within the Union on state-of-law developments in the broad sense, both on a regular and on an ad hoc basis. The VVD Group warmly welcomes this commitment by the cabinet and has taken note with approval of the Foreign Minister's statement that this rule of law mechanism or rule of law mechanism is part of the Dutch Presidency's fourth priority in the first half of 2016 on security, justice and freedom. My group would like to thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for his positive response to questions from this Chamber during the oral consultation on 3 March. We would therefore like to continue to be informed about the implementation of this mechanism by the General Affairs Council. Speaking of the rule of law mechanism, I come on my own to the cooperative and verification mechanism, which is still in force for Romania and Bulgaria. The VVD Group has noted with interest the progress made by Romania under this mechanism over the past year and the renewed commitment of the Bulgarian Government following a period of relative standstill. Our question to the government is how the rule of law mechanism and the cooperative and verification mechanism will relate to each other and whether an integration of both mechanisms is conceivable. Romania and Bulgaria are among the countries on the eastern external border of the EU, as it were, on the dividing line between the internal and external security of the European Union. That is why, in my group's view, extra attention and support is needed for these Member States, now that tensions have risen considerably at that eastern external border. These tensions and the disruption of and ongoing struggles in the Middle East and Northern Africa have also caused the EU to become very restless. As a security debate with the government has recently taken place in this Chamber, I will simply say here that the EU's foreign and security policy must, to our regret, be described as too little, too late in these turbulent times. The VVD Group also expects the new Commission to be more assertive and decisive in this respect and calls on the government to make a strong commitment to this in the Council. I would like to address one more issue in this context, namely the issue of migration. As a result of the bloody conflicts in the Middle East, in Libya and in several countries in sub-Saharan Africa, the UN is currently seeing some 125 million people drifting into the regions and beyond. Recent reports indicate that even in refugee camps people are not safe and are seeking refuge elsewhere. It is not surprising that these massive popular movements do not leave Europe untouched either. From the point of view of refugees, the Member States of the EU are, in a very wide area, the only countries where we can still count on humane treatment. In this respect, our human rights policy works as the proverbial magnet. This new flow of refugees resulting from humanitarian disasters, together with the constant flow of economic refugees and illegal immigrants for many years, presents the EU with an immense problem and we have still not found the right answer to this. Recording in much larger numbers in the Member States than is already the case, is in the long term an impossible task. Reception in the region seems to be more obvious, but in terms of success, it will be highly dependent on the duration of the conflicts. When people don't see light on the horizon for years, they automatically move again, if they haven't been on the run for the umpteenth time. Who knows the solution, but for my group one thing is certain: if the EU is to operate as a unit somewhere now, then it is on this migration dossier and on the penalty of disruption of the social system in Europe!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-4.u16	Mr De Graaf is rightly concerned about increasing refugee flows towards Europe. According to NATO and also according to the United Nations, many of these refugee flows are caused by serious drought problems caused by climate change. It is now remarkable that the VVD does not give any priority to combating these problems. In fact, with the support of the VVD, the European Union is causing additional droughts in these areas by, for example, bringing roses from Ethiopia or beans from Kenya or cotton from India. If you don't take away the breeding ground of the problem, you can't say who knows, you can say it. I find it interesting to know how Mr De Graaf sees the connection between drought, climate change and refugee flows.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-4.u17	I think there will certainly be a link between the drought and the refugee flows, as well as a link with the violence that has flooded almost the whole of the Middle East, sub-Saharan Africa and North Africa. It's a coincidence of circumstances. If people no longer have food and can no longer live in a decent way, they will look for other possibilities. That's what drives people. This is compounded by the struggle that is being waged and the fact that people are being hunted down for all kinds of reasons, including origin and religion. I believe that the problems will have to be addressed in their entirety. On the one hand, we need to find a solution to the migratory flows that Europe is now reaching. I heard on the radio this morning on the way here that 7,000 people were taken out of the Mediterranean by the Italian Navy two days ago. That's what happens in those numbers these days. The weather is better, so they come back in large numbers. At the same time, you have to see if there is anything to do about people's living conditions in the countries themselves. That also has to do with climate and with dehydration. It is clear that this is an extremely complex problem. Mr Koffeman is undoubtedly aware that China now has a very large agricultural position in Africa, not to support the African people, but to feed its own people in the future. Then you can already see images showing the wheat fields on the left and on the right the Africans are starving. These are situations and problems that we must tackle together. We can't do that alone. This should at least be discussed at world level with all major players on the world stage. I don't have the ready-made solution for that. If it were, I'd give it to you. I don't think I'd be standing here. But we will have to tackle both problems, both the flow of refugees through struggle and the flow of refugees from people who have been driven by pure hunger and the urge to survive. This means that something must also be done about the climate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-4.u18	In addition to this. The Columbia University has recently studied the origin of the conflict in Syria and concludes that this is a drought conflict, a water conflict. This is not a religious, ethnic or political conflict. In this sense, I believe that, where we in Europe with TTIP and with the United States are going to continue to promote drought and hunger, I expect the VVD not only to say that we must take care of the refugees in their own region, which is already happening in 93% of the cases. I expect the VVD to make serious work of human influence on drought and climate change. Actually, I don't hear much of the VVD about that. So if you do not remove the breeding ground of the conflict, of the problems and of the flows of refugees, you have little right to speak. If you worsen them, you have no right to speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-4.u19	That's true. I agree with you, but you are now dealing entirely with drought and climate problems. It's a combination of factors. There is indeed drought, climate and famine, but at the same time there is also a battle going on that does not end in the countries we are talking about. When we talk about drought and climate, you also know that China, as one of the major players in Africa right now, has an acute water problem. One has to go 200 meters into the ground to find water and then it's still contaminated. The Jangtsekiang is dry so to speak. The water problem is perhaps even greater there than anywhere else in the world. This indicates the need for a global approach to this problem if we are not to be in an increasing number of conflicts for water at all. One thing is certain: water is the case belli of the coming period.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-4.u20	I am pleased that Mr De Graaf acknowledges that water is going to be the major bottleneck. I very much hope that the VVD will also work on this and that it will not just ask the question of how the economy and trade can be driven. After all, we know that we need four globes if our consumption patterns are to be taken over by the rest of the world. So driving the economy is not the solution, but rather the problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-4.u21	I also have a question for Mr De Graaf. He made a clear plea for a joint approach to refugee and migration issues. Does he also withdraw from his colleague Azmani's proposal in the House of Representatives and from his party to close Europe's borders to refugees?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-4.u22	I consider the comments made in the House of Representatives on reception in the region to be valid. It will have to be a combination of measures. I do not think that the remark about closing Europe's borders is realistic for the simple reason that borders can always be broken. This turns out to be every day. The measures taken in recent years to stop the flows of refugees from North Africa are not working and the number of refugees is increasing. This also has to do with the unstable situation in North Africa and, in particular, Libya. Here, too, we need to find a combined approach which, on the one hand, achieves stability in the countries of origin, but, on the other hand, it is difficult that not everything that is currently going on in the Middle East and Africa and, on the other hand, people in the region are being taken care of without them fleeing again. For example, the Palestinian refugee camp in Damascus has been under attack for days. These situations are quite insoluble, but something really needs to be done about them. So safe places for the shelter, but at the same time we must be realistic. We cannot do that for all the people there, and that is why people will continue to come. We also need to find an adequate solution for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-4.u23	It is good to hear that Mr De Graaf is looking at this much more nuanced and that he says that the EU has a responsibility in this too. By far the majority of people are already being taken care of in the region. Mr Koffeman has already said that. We know that 3.2 million Syrian refugees are being received in a few countries in the region. Lebanon, which has only 4 million inhabitants, catches 1.2 million refugees. It's almost incomprehensible how that should go. There is also a food shortage. Should the EU adopt a joint resettlement policy in addition to an admission policy for the people who come here spontaneously? I am referring to an invitation policy through UNHCR for people in the camps who are too vulnerable to stay there. UNHCR asks, among other things, the EU to include some of them. This is now being done on a voluntary basis, and this creates huge differences. Germany has invited 30,000 and the Netherlands 250. Does Mr De Graaf believe that joint agreements should be made on this at EU level?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-4.u24	Absolutely, and that's what I indicated. I am also in favour of a more assertive approach by the European Union in the search for a solution to this problem. That has everything to do with the consequences of the current situation in North Africa and the Middle East. I have already said that care on the ground cannot be arranged, but you will have to ensure that those people remain alive. Putting them somewhere in a camp and then leaving them alone won't work either, because then they'll get adrift again. In addition, we will have to deal adequately with the flows that Europe can reach. I think this calls for a Europe-wide approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-4.u25	Finally, Mrs Strik.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-4.u26	So, including the invitation policy? So we should not just wait and see who succeeds in...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-4.u27	This can be part of the process if good agreements are made between UNHCR and the European Union. Madam President. The urgency of the issue of migration does not seem to have been fully understood. The question to the government is therefore what commitment the Netherlands chooses. Should there not be a clear definition of categories of migrants so that different solutions can also be sought for the different groups? This is also a factor in this. Finally, all things considered, the crucial question is: quo vadis Europe? Will the 28 EU Member States ultimately succeed in putting a political point on the horizon? The VVD Group is not concerned about the institutional discussions in which the EU likes to immerse itself, but rather about the apparent unwillingness to move forward in a political sense as a result of which crucial and urgent policy issues stagnate or weaken decision-making due to a lack of consensus. In short, does the government consider the EU as an economic community to be sustainable in the long run without further political embedding? The VVD Group wishes the government every success in preparing and completing the EU Presidency in the first half of 2016.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-4.u28	It is also not entirely clear to me with Mr De Graaf where we are going with Europe and the EU. However, it is not entirely clear to me what direction the VVD is in this regard either. Is Mr De Graaf now calling for more political embedding?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-4.u29	I just said that. I believe that the economic community in Europe needs more political embedding in order to be able to survive in the long term. We see what the crisis has brought about. Mr Van der Linden said that every crisis ultimately brings more cooperation. I doubt that. In particular, tackling the crisis has also led to more division in Europe. Without a more political Europe, in my opinion, we cannot ultimately maintain the economic community. It also started in politics; it was a peace-political commitment that led to a common economy. That economy keeps Europe alive and has brought peace with all the guarantees around it, but we are now at a crossroads of roads where clear choices need to be made. Do we want to do more together in political terms in Europe or do we not want to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-4.u30	Sure. Europe's starting point was clearly a political project and also a very beautiful and desirable project. At the moment we are indeed at a crossroads of roads. Mr De Graaf argues for a direction I have never heard of the VVD in the Lower House. Is this the direction of the VVD, of the VVD senate fraction or a personal direction?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-4.u31	I am speaking on behalf of the VVD Group in the Senate. It is well known that it does not always express exactly the same opinion as the group in the House of Representatives. That has proved to be the case in recent years. That's good to come to the right decision in the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-4.u32	That can certainly be very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-4.u33	Finally, Mr Elzinga.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-4.u34	Thank you, Madam President. The Prime Minister, a member of Mr De Graaf's party, said 12 days ago when he examined the State of the Union in the House of Representatives that no one is any longer in favour of an ever closer union as laid down in Maastricht. I knew at that time that he counted outside Mr Van der Linden, but apparently outside the First Chamber of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-4.u35	I've got a question, too. Mr De Graaf explained that there was a tension between an economically cooperative Europe with everything that was involved and a possible political union. It advocated a further political union in order to maintain economic cooperation. However, I do not hear him at all on one issue, which I think is very crucial, in this context. When we look at the steps that have been taken and are being taken towards political union, we see that a broad awareness has gradually emerged that we are facing a huge democratic deficit in this area. I am curious to know what the VVD's First Parliamentary Group thinks about this democratic deficit. I would say that a party which even has the word 'democracy' in its name should be particularly concerned about this issue. I am very curious to hear what Mr De Graaf has to say about this. So far, I haven't heard anything about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-4.u36	You are talking about a democratic deficit. Looking at the start of the European Community, later on the European Union, and all the subsequent treaties, I think that work has been done to reduce that democratic deficit. The European Parliament has clearly been given a more important role. It is a directly elected parliament, so there is little to do with that. On the other hand, the institution building of the Union does not meet, as you might call it, the democratic model in a number of respects. I believe that this will continue to be the case if we continue to look only at the economic development of the European Union. Only when you dare to take steps in a political-administrative sense and want to do so can you work on adjusting the institutional organisation. And that might bring you closer to that ideal democratic model.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-4.u37	Mr De Graaf talks about a small democratic deficit.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-4.u38	I didn't mention the word "small."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-4.u39	No, but you see it as a problem, albeit a bit in the margin, but at least soluble.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-4.u40	Those are your words, Mr De Lange.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-4.u41	Then let me make an important point. When we look at monetary policy, we see that the European Central Bank has brought forward another 1,000 billion. Of the 1,000 billion, only one third has been supported by democratic decisions by parliaments. So two-thirds isn't. So 600 to 700 billion has been spent by the European Central Bank without democratic control. That's not peanuts, I'd say. It is a huge problem, and I am very curious how you view it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-4.u42	We can discuss this with each other long and wide. I believe that in our own country the Dutch Bank can take decisions without the two Chambers of the States-General speaking on this matter. That is the way the financial and monetary system works. That is also true in Europe. I wouldn't know how else to do it, or there will be no decision-making on this point. At least I hope we are at the end of a financial and economic crisis which must be combated in all possible ways, whether we do so on the left, on the right, on the middle, on the bottom or on the top. The European Central Bank plays its own role in this and has made its own assessment. You can argue whether that is the right balance, but it is clear that it is intended to bring Europe out of the crisis on a permanent basis. And you may know better than anyone else in this Chamber that fighting this crisis by unanimity in terms of voting and decision-making is not the best method. I can talk about that from my own experience.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-4.u43	Mr De Lange, you may respond very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-4.u44	I thank Mr De Graaf for his answers. In my own term, I will also deal with this problem. I hope he will respond from his side to what I have to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-4.u45	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-4.u46	And that brings you to the end of your speech. I call Mrs Faber-van de Klashorst.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-4.u47	Mr. Chairman. We decide something, we bring it in and then wait some time to see what happens. If there is no wrongdoing, no rebellion breaks out... most people don't understand what's definitely going on... then we'll move on, step by step, until there's no return. I cannot describe more clearly that the EU has nothing to do with democracy than with these words by Jean-Claude Juncker. Everyone who cherishes democracy understands that we must get rid of this undemocratic institution, called the EU, as soon as possible. The European Union lies like a suffocating blanket over Europe, an area where all men became Brüder, at least according to the European national anthem. A national anthem designed to express the European ideals of freedom, peace and solidarity. A national anthem that is only carried by the melody of the ninth symphony of Ludwig van Beethoven and certainly not by Europeans. A beautiful melody that drags people along, but in the meantime the European agenda is slowly rolled out, step by step, until there is no turning back. We have the choice: Europhile or Democrat. These concepts are, by the way, mutually exclusive: the Dutch freedom or the Brussels yoke. Collaboration on a voluntary basis or on the basis of an order. Build up our economy itself or artificially keep failing countries, such as Greece. The borders close against Islamisation or bow to the Islamic breeding sites, the mosques that shoot out of the ground all over the EU, funded by.... Yeah, by who, anyway? Perhaps the Minister could clarify that? In concrete terms, does the Minister have a view on the financing of these mosques in Europe and in particular in the Netherlands? Almost all parties in this house bow in adoration for the EU. They're trying to get those who think differently on their side by scaring them. EU critical noises are demonised and ridiculed. The PVV is not sacrificing democracy and our freedom to the great European project, as opposed to the European elite who at all costs want to achieve the European federal dream, through complex processes and a huge stream of laws and regulations that suffocates and entangles our country. Does the elite ever wonder what the voters want? Well, I'd rather not. The outcome of the referendum was not seen as pleasant either, with the result that the gap between voters and politicians is widening. And the voter sees it, he experiences it. The voter has access to a lot of information over the Internet. The voter also finds like-minded people on the Internet and becomes increasingly aware of the deception of the elite. This is also reflected in the Eurobarometer survey. This shows that only 31% of Dutch people have a moderate positive view of the EU. The poll also states that half the Dutch have no confidence in the EU. Let this get to you! That confidence could be regained by allowing the citizens to express themselves in essential matters in a referendum. However, that is the last thing europhile politicians think of. There is a danger that the Dutch people will be able to vote away the euro or even see the whole of Europe as a frightening image. The Netherlands has been the largest net contributor within the EU for years. The cost of being a member was €8.4 billion in 2014. This bill is in addition to the billions of savings that have been made in recent years to please Brussels with the 3% standard. I am not even talking about guarantees and loans to Greece. Greece, which acts like a dreaming child: if we do not get what we want, we will open the borders to all the lucky seekers from the Islamic world who would like to expand its wars to Europe. The Netherlands pays the same amount to the EU as Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Croatia, Greece, Romania, Hungary and Bulgaria with the above mentioned €8.4 billion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-4.u48	I hear Greece passing a number of times. I would like to ask whether Greece is a victim of the European project or whether the European project is a victim of Greece in the eyes of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-4.u49	That's a nice question. They are actually the victims of the EU, because their entire monetary policy has been imposed on them. Before they were in the euro, they could, if things were bad, devalue their currencies so that they could compete again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-4.u50	Does Mr Faber not agree with me that it is not really nice and proper to turn the Greeks away as a bunch of driving toddlers, if she thinks that the Greeks are victims of the European project? We have delivered there as a kind of Wehkamp in the knowledge that there would be no payment and that those who do not have that rack and who can no longer devalue it because they no longer have their own currency are victims. In my opinion, you are calling for attention to be paid to the fact that Europe is causing casualties, after which you put the victims in the suspect's bank. I don't quite understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-4.u51	What is your specific question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-4.u52	If you do not agree with me that it is not proper to charge the Greeks and that it is much better to charge Europe for what it is doing to the Greeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-4.u53	Let me be clear: as you know, the PVV has nothing with the European Union in its present form. In addition, the Greeks have become members of the European Union on their own initiative. They have presented the figures in a special way, to put it neatly. We all know what it's like in this house. So they got in on their own. No one hit them with a bat. They did it themselves. They've taken out all these loans themselves, but now they don't want to pay back. That is, in fact, almost an impossible task. They say: if we do not get money, we will open up the borders! That's just your purest blackmail.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-4.u54	Very briefly, Mr Koffeman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-4.u55	Surely it is quite clear that the Greeks stand against the wall with their backs and that the EU's payments to Greece have not benefited the Greek citizens and you stand up for citizens but above all for Western banks? In that sense, I think it would fit in with your analysis to approach the Greeks with a little more consideration.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-4.u56	On that last point, I do not agree with Mr Koffeman, but he also gives an additional reason for lifting the EU.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-4.u57	In short, Mr. De Lange.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-4.u58	Of course, we can think for a long time about what has gone wrong in the past. However, that does not take us any further. The reality of Greece is that it has a public debt of 180% of its national income. You're lucky to have that government debt repaid 2% a year. So if there is ever any redemption, we are talking about a period of 90 years. Absolutely pointless! There is only one solution, namely that there will be a debt conference in which debts will be significantly cancelled, not only for Greece but for many other countries. That is the only way that has to do with reality. The rest is populist chatter, I'd say.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-4.u59	Is that your question to Mrs Faber? It's a statement, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-4.u60	It's a statement, but I'd like to continue my populist chatter. Greece's forgiveness is already in full swing. After all, they will have to pay off in 30 years' time, and if we have an inflation rate of 2%, 45% will be forgiven anyway. So it's already in full swing. I will continue with my speech. The Dutch cough up almost twice as much tax money as the Spanish, British and Italians. The Dutch also pay one and a half times more than the French and the Germans. Surely that can no longer be explained to the Dutch citizen? This is also evident from the 'end-of-year bonus', which even the Minister of Finance said surprised. You know, the post-tax of 642 million, which has still not been given any openness. Looks like the finance minister just can't explain it. As I indicated in the last list-leader debate here in the Chamber, Islam has declared war on the free West. The recent attacks in Brussels and Paris and the constant threat of terrorism make this very painfully clear. Meanwhile, the EU is opening its borders to even more Islam. Nor does the EU hesitate to facilitate Islam. That's bloody dangerous. There's no mockery of Islam. Charlie knows all about it and so does my party leader Geert Wilders. Islam is averse to freedom and democracy. Perhaps that is why the EU and Islam are getting along so well. In the meantime, Europe's population is at stake. After all, Islam brings misery all over the world. In almost all conflicts in the world Islam is involved or, rather, the direct cause. Meanwhile, the EU is in talks with the Islamic country of Turkey about accession to the European Union. That's asking for more trouble. A number of reasons why Turkey should never, ever, ever have to join the EU. Turkey is an Islamic country and member of the OIC, an organisation that wants to implement pure Islam. This cannot go hand in hand with Western culture in Europe, which is based on Judaism, Christianity and humanism. Turkey has been on the continent of Europe for 3% since the conquest of Constantinople. 97% are in Asia. Turkey is neighbouring Syria and Iraq. You know, where ISIS now lives gruesomely. Upon Turkey's accession to the EU, these two countries will become our neighbours. Don't even think about that! ISIS is already at the southern border and now the eastern border is also joining. Turkey with its Islam will decide when it joins the EU what should happen in the Netherlands, because the large country with at least 80 million inhabitants becomes a dominant party in the EU at one stroke. Turkey has nothing to do with freedom of expression. Journalists are arrested, criticism of Turkey is punishable. Just mentioning the mass murder of the Christian Armenians means many years in prison. Turkey has nothing to do with equality between men and women. After hearing all these points, how can the cabinet still make use of Turkey's accession? I'd like a response from the Minister. The EU must stop its pro-immigration policy. We need to enable the countries to close the borders again so that we can start de-Islamicisation and preserve our freedom. It's that freedom that's at stake. I would particularly like to talk about the position of the woman within Islam. Within Islam, women are seen as an inferior being whose main task is to please the man and, above all, to produce many sons. In countless positions she is placed at a disadvantage. Think of marriage, honor-related violence, forced isolation but also genital mutilation. Half a million women in the European Union have been circumcised. Every year, 180,000 girls are at risk of being circumcised within the EU. The woman within Islam has no direction over her own life, she is group property. What is the EU doing in all this? He's looking away. This while freedom of expression is part of democracy. Without freedom of expression, democracy cannot exist. The EU's position vis-à-vis Islam and the Arab world also shows the following. More and more voices are being voiced in the EU to recognise a Palestinian state. Another attempt to please the Islamic world. And it's not just political support. The Palestinian Authority also receives financial support. While Dutch pensions are being cut, the EU pays pensions for Palestinian civil servants with Dutch taxpayers' money. Last, the Palestinian news agency WAFA announced that on Thursday, 2 April 2015, the European Union announced a contribution of EUR 31.6 million to the Palestinian Authority to pay the wages and pensions of 68,000 officials for the last month of March. But it's worse. Between 2008 and 2012, EUR 2 billion went from the EU to the Palestinian territories. The European Court of Auditors has indicated that it is not clear where this 2 billion has gone and whether the money for which it was intended has been spent. How much financial resources have gone to the Palestinian territories over the last ten years? Is it being checked how these funds are used? Back to the fact that there are more and more voices to recognise a Palestinian state. Let me be brief on this. The Palestinian State already exists and is called Jordan. People who want to live in the Palestinian state can move to Jordan. For the record, Judea and Samaria are Israelis. Anyone who embraces democracy cannot drop the only democratic country in the Middle East, Israel. The PVV is not on the side of Hamas and the Israeli Bashers. The PVV opts for the democratic rule of law of Israel. This beacon of light in the Middle East deserves our support. All European financial support to the Palestinian Authority must be stopped immediately and recognition of the Palestinian State must be withdrawn immediately. Enough is enough. Then what is to be done? Firstly, this cabinet must choose the Netherlands instead of the European Union. This applies not only to the cabinet but also to the elected Members of Parliament. Whose mandate did they get? From the Greeks? The Germans? The Romanians? The Spaniards? Oh, no, it's the Dutch. Whose good are they serving? We need to get out of the European Union, out of the euro. We have to trade with the whole world. We need to be in charge of our own borders again, so from Schengen. We should be back in charge of our own money. We must go back to our own economic policy. And most of all, we have to stay who we are. Mass immigration and Islamisation are disastrous for the Netherlands. Our identity is at stake. We don't want to be Eurarabia. We must never, ever give up our way of life. What does the European Union bring the Netherlands? Loss of sovereignty and loss of political independence. For 15 years, there has been no economic growth and no other irrefutable benefits. Their own national customs are despised and exchanged for the multicultural society, in which there are no equal rights for all. Citizens are impoverished in both economic and social terms. The only people who benefit from the European Union are the members of the elite who fall on the European trough, the elite who refuse to recognise that the State of the European Union is one of decline. The elite want to continue to expand the European Union, because the greater the territory, the greater the power. Yes, because all men became Brüder.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-4.u61	Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much. These are already the fourth European reflections in this cabinet period and we are talking to the third foreign minister. The cabinet has not been able to keep up with the pace of discussions, but, of course, we would like to welcome Minister Koenders to this debate. If you look back at the end of such a parliamentary term, you will see that in 2012 we looked back at a disruptive crisis around the euro, in which the European Central Bank repaired the indecision of politics. It is a good thing that banks are not under political control, I say to a colleague. Since then, the Union has managed to put things in order, although of course the concerns are still far from being resolved. France and Italy do not comply with budgetary agreements. This is being discussed with understanding and no sanctions are being applied, but it seems to me that it is important to continue to follow that up with suspicion. Bad examples want to follow, not just good ones. If we had also looked at Greece's accession to the eurozone, we would have been spared a great deal of misery, just as Greece would probably have been spared a lot of misery. Today we often hear that the euro countries are ready for a grexit, prepared for it. In technical terms, that will be true, but in political reality, a Greek exit would be a huge defeat for the European Union and would cause unimaginable political damage. From some distance one gets the impression that the outcome of the Greek drama is mainly determined by a group of three institutions "formerly known as troika." The verbal polarisation between Greece and the other Member States poisons the climate. Fortunately, Prime Minister Tsipras' visit to Berlin has contributed a bit to a more or less normal conversation. Do other countries play a role in a different area than just the financial one to see whether the Union's relationship as a community of values can be strengthened and whether Greece can be assisted in a different way than by going through the budgets together? I ask this because I am concerned about the attitude of the Member States towards each other. Today I saw a tweet by Mr Brenninkmeijer. He says in his familiar way that the European Union is an association of unreliable members who want to get more money than bring it. He added some text to that, but the essence of it was included. In the year he was in the General Court, he did not seem to have a very high opinion of the Union's binding cohesion, but, above all, of the desire to obtain money from it. In recent years, and again today, we have paid a great deal of attention to mass unemployment. Can the Minister tell us about the European contribution on this issue? Did it get you anything? Will Greece also receive a share of this? I note with some joy that the fight against tax avoidance and evasion seems to have come to life. It is certainly an enormous achievement in the eyes of the citizens if this is made even more rapid. I would remind you that Mr Van Rompuy assessed the scale of the phenomenon of tax avoidance and fraud at 1,000 billion a year. That's not a small beer. The use of additional human resources to combat this would generate a great deal of extra efficiency. Today, however, I read in Het Financieele Dagblad that a senior official of the European Union, especially in charge of tax matters, says that countries are only working against each other. Is that true? How does the Minister assess the progress of this dossier? Can he indicate whether this will again be prominently discussed during the Dutch Presidency? I find the kind of messages I hear today from a senior official, who wants nothing better than to hurry, extremely disturbing. What does the government think of the two European directives on tax transparency? There has been a new European Commission which, of course, has not been able to show much. It is clear that we intend to make foreign policy more recognizable. It's called an open door. The weaknesses of this policy have been painfully exposed in recent years. As an example, I would like to mention Eastern Neighbourhood. Last year, committees from the First Chamber visited the European Commission. The members of these committees were able to see with their own eyes that there were very different insights within the Commission and that they were ventilated effortlessly. Now I am in favour of pluralism and I am always interested in different opinions, but the Commission should have one vision in such an important piece. One saw Eastern Neighbourhood as an attempt to help countries with their economic and political developments, so that the gap with the Union would not become too great and, of course, those countries would be helped, but the other felt that it was actually an enlargement of the European Union and that it would therefore be desirable to extend NATO. Those two visions conflict with each other. In her beautiful book The shadow of the big brother, Laura Stanink notes that the European offer to Ukraine of an association treaty in Moscow made all stops. Now I do not know the quality of the stops in Moscow, but at least it has had great significance. John Mersheimer, already quoted by Mr Van der Linden, even wrote last year in Foreign Affairs that the crisis in Ukraine should actually be written all over the West. That is an extremely one-sided approach, if only because Russia, as a co-signator of the Helsinki agreements, should and could have behaved differently. It also seems to me too easy to assume that, when we talk to Russia, we are dealing with an entity with the same rationality and values as the European Union and the countries of the European Union. However, if the European Union's neighbourhood policy is not interested in possible negative effects elsewhere, on its neighbours, it does not deserve the name politically. In an interesting book, Russia in War, Peter d'Hamecourt reminded us that Gorbachev was promised at the time that the West would not make any advances towards Russia's neighbouring states. But d'Hamecourt says, you hear that more often, these independent states can pursue their own will. They have nothing to do with others and have every right to opt for EU and NATO. I agree with that, but the consequence that d'Hamecourt and many of them attach to it is that NATO and the EU should say 'if you want us to do so, we will do so'. Russia has no droit de respect over who can join the EU or NATO. This is a decision that the Member States themselves must take on the basis of a balance of interests, including their own security interests and the effects that a decision has on their own security situation. In this context, it is very important to know the history well. It has just been recalled that a lot of relevant history has recently been added. Does the Minister also see that it must be a matter of weighing up the Member States of the Union to do so and that wishes of other countries can never matter? Does he agree with me that in the past people may have gone a little too easy with that? An important initiative of the new Commission is to achieve better regulation. Sometimes it is said that Europe should only do the main things and the countries the small things. I think Mr van der Linden just said that. That seems completely incorrect to me. One is not more important than the other. The decisive factor must be whether it is necessary, because of cross-border problems or lack of sovereignty, to tackle a problem together, and whether countries themselves can deal with it themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-4.u62	Let me make a comment before there is a misunderstanding here. Mr De Vries says that Mr Van der Linden said that important matters are resolved at Brussels level and matters of minor importance at national level. I didn't argue that. I have argued that the European Union should confine itself to the core issues that are cross-border and where we are unable to take effective action at national level.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-4.u63	You did say that, didn't you? I just thought I heard you talk about big and small problems, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-4.u64	I have quoted a Commissioner: from the big perspective one can say that small things can also be important, only they are smaller than the big ones.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-4.u65	That is an appreciation of what is important; that is what my comment was about. I must not forget that in Brussels we would only think about the great and important things, because I would like to be involved from the national parliaments. Good. Less European regulation where it is not necessary will hopefully discourage those who like to accuse Brussels of interference and defiance. It is only a small step for the citizens and more needs to be done. Mr Van Rompuy said at the time that he was awake because of the lack of public support, but lying awake does not really help. There is an enormous unfamiliarity, which has been referred to earlier today by several speakers, about how the Union actually works and what is the relationship between the Union and the Member States and how the parliaments are involved. I have already argued on behalf of my group on a number of occasions that informed and well-structured information on the European Union is lacking. There is not enough room for this in education; I can talk about it for hours from my own experience. I have already mentioned this a few times, and fortunately that is very sympathetic, because why should you be against it? I don't see how this is taking shape. The Minister has recently said that he is not satisfied with what is happening in this area, but why does he not once identify exactly what is being done in the field of information policy by governments, the Union and other bodies and what resources are available for it? Could he also make a judgement as to whether this is adequate or not? Under the Dutch Presidency, a public campaign will be held, Minister Timmermans told us. That will be an information campaign, but I hope that this will not be a one-off eruption of leaflets; that really does not solve the problem. We are dealing here with a structural problem and it is a huge step for people to understand and incorporate into their own considerations that we function in a larger whole. Much more important than information, I believe that citizens see that the Union has a clear added value. We have not been very lucky in recent years, but the Union can be active and performing in many things. This could mean a great deal to the Union's citizens. Mr De Graaf mentioned this morning the issue of cross-border worker opportunities. The government has sent us a letter on this, for which I thank you once again. Unfortunately, that file moves at the speed of a snail. I saw that there are now three ministers involved, because the Prime Minister also said in the House of Representatives that he always goes to those talks. So we are dealing with him, with the Foreign Minister and with the Minister of the Interior. I know from my own experience that that is a guarantee that nothing will happen. You will contradict that, as I know from experience, but why aren't some task forces being set up? They could be commissioned to consider what is needed in tax and social legislation. In the border regions in particular, there are many ideas which are well known and need to be worked on by the Cabinet. The Ministers will no doubt note that there are people working in their apparatus and that the dossier is on a pile, but working on something is also very difficult. Why can't we see some more results? This is very urgent for people in the border regions, but it is also extremely useful for the countries involved. Europe must at least not make matters more difficult for its citizens. Those who have had the urge to change banks over the past few months have noticed that this is not so simple: you cannot bring your own number. Why not? Because under pressure from a successful bank lobby, the name of the bank is included in the European IBAN code. They're gonna do something about that. I read that there is a intention to tackle this in 2019 and then come forward with proposals. If you look at the average duration of a proposal, we'll have another 15 years before anything happens. That's impossible, isn't it? Citizens get tired of it sometimes and want to get away from their bank. This is a brilliant violation of market forces. Really genius! You have built your own brake into the system and that is for banks that are huge for market operation in other areas. I would like us to say in Europe: come on, let's see how we can solve this problem sooner, because then we can show the citizens something. Next year, the Netherlands will be President of the Council of Ministers. This Presidency is somewhat different from that of the past, but it is therefore no less important. Even if some things are no longer allowed, you can of course try them; you must keep your mark on that presidency. The government places its own agenda within the priorities of the European Council. This Council has drawn up an agenda for the Union in times of change. I let that work on me. Apparently there is also an agenda for the Union not in times of change, but the presidency of the Netherlands will be in it. The agenda states that there would be an increasing tension between, and I quote,'very far-reaching measures which are considered necessary to deal with pressing problems and, on the other hand, the public's support for these progressive measures'. I believe that in such formulas the citizen is always wronged. The citizen is probably against things here and there, but the citizen is probably for things here and there too. In this way, I believe that people's feelings are being talked about in a way that is far too general and that does not reflect their concerns or aspirations. There is a multitude of things where citizens would like to see the Union more active. I refer to the fight against unemployment, the fight against tax avoidance and evasion, the protection of privacy, the promotion of peace and security and the fight against organised crime. These are all things that you can get your hands on if you could make them visible. The Union is making haste with the TTIP negotiations. Before the end of President Obama's term of office, that treaty must be ready. Why that is the case, escapes me. Why not before the end of Mr Juncker's term of office? Or do people think it's shorter? Is there any fear that another American government will not want this treaty? But is the treaty sustainable? I would say: look at that calmly and wisely, weigh it down and don't rush it. I can't quite see it either, but that's because we're at a great distance. The positive rate of economic growth, I think, is 0.5% in ten years' time, which is rather disappointing. Furthermore, some of them remind me a little of the passing on of national election programmes which often seem to have much more positive effects in the distant future. But speaking of the negative effects, there are always winners and losers at such a treaty. There's very little left to say about it. The social consequences are difficult to predict. A country with worse social conditions than Europe can probably produce more easily and cheaper. America has a very different tax system than Europe. It has not committed itself to a number of ILO conventions. In short, there is reason to think that it is very desirable to look carefully at the risk of undesirable pressure on the European socio-economic system. America has also developed an internal market that is incredibly well developed, while Europe is still working on it. Environmental impacts are also feared. I'm not just talking about the chlorine chicken. There are environmental impacts. So I would like to see people taking their time and not rushing things.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-4.u66	In my opinion, Mr de Vries raises a number of very legitimate questions about TTIP, but his colleagues in the House of Representatives seem to be a lot further in their conclusions. Does Mr De Vries think that the questions he raises could be a reason for a pass on the spot, or does he not go beyond the point that we should take the time and look at them quietly?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-4.u67	I do not understand what Mr Koffeman is trying to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-4.u68	Mr De Vries' colleagues in the House of Representatives have indicated that TTIP may not be wanted at all. They go further than Mr De Vries. Mr De Vries raised a number of questions and he called for time to be taken. You can ask a big government party more than that, can't you? You may ask about the conclusions regarding TTIP and the pace at which it takes place. Perhaps Mr De Vries could make a plea against TTIP, other than asking questions about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-4.u69	I am debating this with the Dutch Government today. I assume that my colleagues in the House of Representatives have done the same. These are the questions I would like to put to the government. I can expect from the PvdD that they have some understanding for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-4.u70	I began by saying that I understand Mr De Vries' questions, but I asked him whether, other than asking questions, he would also draw conclusions on TTIP and on TTIP.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-4.u71	If Mr Koffeman had listened carefully to my questions, he would probably have realised that I think that, given that there are serious objections from all sides, perhaps you should not begin such an enormous adventure. It often happens with major changes in the system. This is a change in the system that one does start but never gets out. It's very hard to reverse something like that. For example, we have had the liberalisation of financial markets. That was a great idea in the nineties, but it cost gold. If we look back now and wonder if we have handled this issue wisely at the time, many people are probably saying that perhaps we should not have done it. Perhaps such a huge broadening of your market is also something you should say: don't do for a while. However, I have the feeling that we are dealing with a sensible government and that I can put a number of questions to her in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-4.u72	It has taken some effort, but I hear Mr De Vries now saying that perhaps you should not start at all. The radicalisation that was heard at the PvdA congress last weekend does not sound entirely in his words, but I am very pleased that Mr De Vries is not enough to ask questions and also indicates that you may not have to do so. I explain his words as a somewhat more radical rejection than I initially thought I would listen to.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-4.u73	Well, look at that. I am often accused of using too few words, but I think all this was implicit in the questions I asked. Back to the Dutch Presidency. We have faith in that. It seems to us that this is well prepared, but we noticed the lack of ambition with regard to the issues to be dealt with within the framework of the Justice and Home Affairs Council. It is mentioned that the Netherlands will "continue to focus on consolidation and implementation in the fight against organised crime." Who is waiting for 'consolidation' of the fight against organised crime and 'implementation'? We thought this was already done! What are the problems in this respect? Apparently the implementation even leaves something to be desired. What are we going to do about it? How are we going to do that? Organised crime is incredibly large and growing like cabbage. The Netherlands itself is hardly able to adequately combat the rapid growth of drug production, for example in the province of Brabant. I heard, but this aside, that the Minister of the Interior is going to offer courses to mayors, who are deeply concerned about this, to increase their resilience. I don't think that's the problem. The problem seems rather to be that the judiciary and police are unable to deal with the fight, at least not with the efforts being made at the moment. Mafias move up in Europe under many names and undermine the rule of law. I'll write that in capital letters. It has been keeping me busy for years that people do not want to make a strong commitment to this. With regard to jihad fighters, Europe quickly developed a sense of urgency and rightly so, but where is the urgency with regard to organised crime? "Consolidation and implementation." It's horrible, isn't it? I am considering tabling a motion on this point. Two ministerial conferences will be held during the Presidency, one on the Urban Agenda and one on cooperation with the US in the field of Home Affairs and Justice. My group welcomes this. The Netherlands has much to offer in the area of the Urban Agenda. However, only what I call the sunny side of the street in the urban environment is mentioned in the description. Cities are indeed engines of economic growth and breeding grounds of innovation. But I hope that attention will also be paid to the problem of large cities. In the Dutch big cities, the picture is often very favourable, but anyone who comes to Paris or other cities has to step over the beggars and the people who sleep on the street. There are enormous problems in neighbourhoods where crime is spreading, where poverty and unemployment have devastating effects. Are we also paying attention to this or are we just looking at the sunny side? Then there is a conference between Europe and the US on Justice and Home Affairs. It's about subjects like data protection. This seems to me to be an excellent opportunity for the European side to finally put forward the US administration's practices in the field of the degradation of our privacy. There is no need for sweet sandwiches, and they are too many How does the Minister intend to deal with this conversation with the United States? I have a question about the European Union's accession to the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. The European Court of Justice has delivered a critical opinion on this subject, which concludes with the conclusion that the draft accession regime is incompatible with European Union law. Moreover, an interesting part of this accession arrangement is that the Union is treated as a state. And that is, of course, finalité in optima forma. What does the Government think of the objections raised by the Court? Does she think they can be solved? Is the Netherlands able to contribute to the solution of these problems or is it an elephant stuck in a door and unable to go forward or backwards, as Mr Schrijver puts it in Dutch Juristenblad? A third UN conference will take place in Addis Ababa from 13 to 16 July 2015 on financing for development. In 2005, the Member States of the Union committed to the European Consensus on Development, contributing 0.7% of GDP to Official Development Aid. We are now going there with the message that we have only achieved 0.43%. The agenda also includes issues such as the importance of international cooperation in the field of taxation, fair tax systems and the fight against tax fraud and avoidance. I'm very curious to see what we're going to do there. In general terms, the principle of tax being paid where the money is earned begins by breaking, but I do not know whether this is the case in the Netherlands or in Europe in general and whether this is the case with developing countries. What will the Dutch Government say about this at that conference? Finally, there is the request for advice to the International Affairs Advisory Council. He is going to study on variation in membership of the Union. Is that finalité or is that pluralism? We don't know. Can the Minister explain why the government needs this advice and in what direction the government itself thinks? Usually you don't ask for that kind of advice if you have an idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-4.u74	Thank you very much, Mr de Vries. I'm looking at the clock. The Minister said he had to apologize at 1.30 p.m. at the latest. It therefore seems to me that we should suspend now. I'm suspending the meeting until 2:25 p.m. before lunch. We'll see the minister later.
