ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u1	I would like to welcome the Secretary of State, as well as the Members of Parliament and the people in the public gallery.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, my colleague Helma Lodders cannot be here because of another debate. I, too, will have to apologize after the first time because of my wish to attend a hearing. Here we are again. Two weeks ago we had a debate on intensive livestock farming in the Netherlands. Almost all political parties participated in that debate and expressed their views. Last week the votes took place, and now we are back here for a debate on the development of an intensive business in Grubbenvorst. That company complies with the laws and regulations. People have been able to express their objections through the usual consultation procedure. The Council of State has recently declared objections to the building permit unfounded and the building permit is now irrevocable. This debate is a repeat of moves and, in view of the various commitments made by the Secretary of State, is completely superfluous. If we are going to have debates on individual developments that are appropriate within existing laws and regulations, we are not taking ourselves seriously. I therefore call on my colleagues to take a critical look at the debates that are taking place and to keep up with the current situation. This debate stops the plenary agenda unnecessarily. My group believes that this debate is completely useless. The developments of this new mixed company fit within the laws and regulations currently in force and are also a response to the issues that the parties on the left side of this Chamber repeatedly set out. The entrepreneurs work with a concept that focuses on closing cycles, improving animal welfare, reducing transport and achieving environmental benefits. I was therefore quietly hoping that these parties would welcome these developments. Unfortunately, this example is also used to limit the development of livestock farming. The VVD opts for entrepreneurship, space for innovation, new developments and employment. This concept fits in, is an example for others and is definitely worth visiting.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u3	Mr Bosma said that this megasthal would improve animal welfare. Can he give two examples showing that welfare is being improved compared to the usual stables?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u4	We need to look at the overall concept. The cycle is closed and less transport is carried out. So it's a total idea. A number of people in this Chamber are asking questions about this, but this overall idea fits into the laws and regulations. Then I think that this is an appropriate solution to the questions we are asking.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u5	The usual stables also fit within the usual laws and regulations. Otherwise they wouldn't exist, you'd think. In addition, the closure of cycles does not concern animal welfare but the environment. There are a lot of questions on that point too. I would therefore ask Mr Bosma once again whether he can give two examples showing that the situation of a pig or a chicken is going to improve 30,000 pigs and 1.1 million chickens kept in Grubbenvorst because of this new farm. Do they have more space, go outside, have fewer behavioral problems? Give me some examples!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u6	It is, of course, Mr Bosman and not Mr Bosma, as Mrs Thieme said.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u7	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u8	That's okay. It's about the overall picture. It fits into the laws and regulations. This is a guarantee of animal welfare. In addition, we have asked a number of questions, such as whether you want to drag with all those animals. No, this company makes sure those lines are as short as possible. That's exactly what I'm talking about by closing the loop in that place. The lines are very short, which means you have to drive around less with those animals, while there are great concerns about well-being during transport and transport. I think this is very sensible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u9	I will allow myself to make a comment and a question. It is the right of a minority of this Chamber to request a 30-member debate. If there is sufficient support for this, this debate will also be held here. If Mr Bosman has a problem with that, he should simply not take part in the debate and should not criticise the right of that minority. That's my point. My question is this. When we are in the debate with Mrs Lodders, she praises the small-scale family farm. She speaks of this with warm words. What we are dealing with here is a large industrial complex of over 1 million chickens. I would like to hear from the VVD what kind of development it is pursuing. Are those small-scale family farms that have made agriculture big, or does the VVD say: no, clean up, we are going for large-scale industrial complexes, like in Grubbenvorst?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u10	First of all, I would like to say something about the point made by the honourable Member. I believe that self-criticism in this Chamber should also be allowed and we should be able to take a critical look at what we are doing and how many debates we are having. We have always had the discussion that there are a lot of 30 Members' debates on the list and that it is taking a very long time for them to be scheduled. Then it is wise to take a critical look at what we are going to discuss in this plenary. You can also say afterwards: was this the time and the task and the obligation to do it in this way; were there no other possibilities so that the plenary room remains available for other matters? Furthermore, unlike D66, the VVD is not for the guided economy. It is up to the entrepreneurs themselves to decide whether they want to operate small-scale or large-scale or in any other form. The VVD doesn't want to impose anything. We only think it is important that people can farm in these different ways.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u11	As far as that point is concerned, I understand what Mr Bosman is saying. I'm gonna leave that for a while. I thought we, too, were trying to send the VVD. We have a Secretary of State for Agriculture, we have an agricultural policy, we are talking about animal welfare. So not everyone can just go about their divine business. I understand very well from what Mr Bosman said that the VVD is fine with the fact that large investors are launching large industrial projects and taking over the small independent farmer, who keeps chickens, who keeps pigs, who keeps cows. Do I understand him that well?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u12	That is the freedom of the market. I always hear that people need the scarlet chicken and natural and organically produced products. It's their right to buy it. If they do, that market will grow by itself. If people need to do things differently, that's good, too, and when people buy those products, it happens automatically. Again, unlike D66, the VVD is for that free market.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u13	I now give the floor to Mr Van Bommel on behalf of the SP Group. I did not expect you to attend a debate on megasthals, Mr Van Bommel.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u14	If there's shit on the marble, I'm hired. Madam President. In Grubbenvorst, ten kilometers north of Venlo, there is a megatal of 1.1 million chickens and 35,000 pigs; a large-scale manure digester. In the opinion of the SP, such an industrial gigastal does not fit in the Netherlands. The chickens and the pigs that are housed there will have a life of misery. There's no outside playing for these animals. According to the SP, however, an animal is more than a piece of meat. I ask the Secretary of State if she shares that view. A quick calculation shows that this industrial megatal takes the place of 40 farmers. Can the Secretary of State confirm that calculation? What vision does this make of the future of Dutch livestock farming and what role do mega-stables play in this? That is something we must bear in mind at the beginning of this development. Does the Secretary of State prefer to opt for one farmer with a megatal who offers low-quality and unpaid employment to a number of Poles or Romanians or opts for 40 farmers in family farms? Does she choose a liveable rural area with regional economic activities, where farmers still live and tourism flourishes, or is it going to be an empty rural area with a megastic population here and there? Does she listen to the objections of neighbors or to the owners of the gigastal? Today I have placed my hopes on moving insight into the Labour Party. At the last PvdA Congress, two motions were adopted asking explicitly "to limit large-scale manure processing to industrial areas and not to allow it to take place in the outside area" and "to use it to reduce livestock in the Netherlands." Such a statement does not involve mega-stables. I look forward to the contribution of the Labour Party to this debate. I ask the Secretary of State to do this. Firstly, stop the construction of the gigastal-Grubbenvorst. It's better halfway back than all the way down. Secondly, avoid the emergence of new "Grubbenvorsten." You can do that with a good law, not with a half-baked law. Thirdly, stop giving subsidies to these developments. These subsidies are there. The Megastal-Grubbenvorst has received millions from various governments in recent years. Why allow 40 farmers to compete away? How much has, in general, gone to mega stables since the Secretary of State's arrival, and specifically to Grubbenvorst? Why is the manure fermentation plant of megastal-Grubbenvorst designated by the government as one of the 60 green deals? How much money is involved in this? Is the Secretary of State prepared to say here and now that she will not subsidise mega-stables by a penny anymore? The predecessor of this State Secretary, Secretary of State Bleker, called the gigastal in Grubbenvorst "an excess." He made a law to counter these excesses, but because of the fall of his cabinet that law never reached the Chamber. Can the Chamber be informed of this law, so that the SP Group can possibly base its own initiative proposal on it? This Secretary of State comes up with a law that looks like a wash nose. At an early stage, the provinces and municipalities came to the Chamber to complain about the draft law, which will only lead to bureaucracy and judicialisation. According to this proposal, it is highly unlikely that the draft law will ever stop a single megastal. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u15	Mr. Chairman. The municipality of Horst aan de Maas makes every effort to make possible in Grubbenvorst, a village with 4,800 inhabitants, a megatal with 1,1 million chickens, 35,000 pigs, a slaughterhouse and a manure plant. She even tried to prevent residents' association Maintaining the Pearl from starting a lawsuit. The Council of State has turned a blind eye to the municipality for that. The municipality has not conducted any studies on the effects on the environment. The National Ombudsman found that the municipality did not carry out a thorough investigation into public health risks. That was addressed to deaf ears; the mayor preferred to take the megatal entrepreneur on a trip to China to promote the megatal concept. How much confidence can the Chamber have that municipalities will carefully balance interests? I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. The megastal in Grubbenvorst was and is the example of megalomaniac thinking in the bio-industrie. On 9 July 2012, Secretary of State Bleker said about Grubbenvorst: we do not want this kind of excesses; in the Netherlands there is no room for extreme industrialisation of livestock farming; this company should not be followed. Can the Secretary of State endorse these words? The Secretary of State could have stepped into a spread bed. The previous cabinet prepared the standards for the scale. What does it mean for the Secretary of State that members at the PvdA Congress rejected the manure factories by a majority and said that livestock should shrink? Is it not a wake-up call for the PvdA Group to put in place a moratorium on authorisation until new legislation is in place? In her time as MP, the Secretary of State filed motions against mega-stables. She wanted national legislation that would protect the public health of citizens. She wanted a ban on mega-stables in the rural area. The majority agree with her: it is against scaling up. However, the locals are completely powerless. It is hard for the government to subsidise legal and technical support for the creation of the megastal in Grubbenvorst by no less than EUR 2.1 million. There is currently an investigation into the risks posed by the bio-industry to public health. In anticipation of this study and of the animal numbers bill, enlargement should not be possible. My group wants a national moratorium on mega-stables. It also believes that the bio-industry should be stopped.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u16	Mr. Chairman. Affordable and sustainably produced food is vital for everyone. The CDA is therefore also proud of our Dutch agricultural sector. Our agriculture and horticulture, including processing and subcontracting, makes a major contribution to the economy. In the world, the sector is regarded as an example of quality, quantity and efficiency. As a CDA, we support initiatives in the sector that go beyond legal requirements and are committed to strong family and family businesses. Our electoral programme is also very clear: the large-scale intensive livestock farming, which is only aimed at cost competition, is being reduced. There are also a number of sentences a little further up. Entrepreneurs who invest in environmental, economic and social sustainability, including in the areas of public and animal health, animal welfare, landscape integration and environmental pressures, deserve room. In addition, it is necessary to take away the concerns of residents. Farmers themselves also have a responsibility to be in good contact with their environment and also to be transparent. Several studies have been carried out into livestock farming. Several times in this Chamber it has been established that there is no one-to-one relationship between scale and animal welfare, between scale and animal health and between scale and public health. The CDA considers that local authorities, provinces and municipalities should and can take responsibility for the authorisation of livestock farming and have sufficient instruments. We are therefore not yet ready to come to a measure. Among other things, we await the advice of the Health Council. There's research currently under way, including Brabant. We believe that the issue of health can be a very important reason for setting a maximum level. As far as the CDA Group is concerned, legislation can only be adopted if the opinion of the Health Council is there and provides an argumentable reason for doing so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u17	Mr Geurts talked about the need for municipalities to assume their responsibilities. Does he think that the municipality of Horst has assumed its responsibility on the Meuse, now that it has not investigated environmental effects and that it has been turned on by the National Ombudsman because it has conducted careless investigations into public health risks, a municipality where the CDA is also in the city council?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u18	I think Mrs Thieme of the Animal Party is forgetting a number of things. The judge made a number of judgments in the Netherlands. I would have liked to start by saying today that the Council of State has made statements and that there are still some doubts about the environmental permit. Mrs Thieme's claim that the municipality has not done enough has not been confirmed by the Council of State. And that's the organ I'm going after.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u19	Mr Geurts does not seem to know what the Council of State is saying. It states in detail that the municipality has not looked at the environmental impacts, in particular with regard to the Natura 2000 site just across the border at Horst aan de Maas. The National Ombudsman has given an opinion to the municipality of Horst on the Meuse in which it says that it should better identify health risks and that it should take a zero measurement because it has failed to do so before. There are already so many convictions towards the municipality of Horst aan de Maas that I once again ask this CDA spokesperson, whose party also sits on the council of the municipality of Horst aan de Maas, or he thinks that the municipality has taken responsibility for this case.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u20	I don't have the verdict on me, but I know there's a comma. Mrs Thieme quotes only part of the ruling. It says behind the comma that it gave no reason for the Council of State to take further steps. So Mrs Thieme must quote completely, but there will undoubtedly be another separate debate where we will fill in this statement together.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u21	The Council of State has declared the building permit irrevocable, but has made these negative comments on the environmental permit, and that is what I am talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u22	I thank Mr Geurts for his interesting speech. What struck me is that he said that the CDA is against large-scale industrial livestock farming that is mainly cost-driven. What does this mean for Grubbenvorst II, III and IV?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u23	I will give Mr Schouw the full quote. I said: 'The large-scale intensive livestock farming, which is only aimed at cost competition, is being reduced as far as we are concerned'. I added a few more sentences to that. I said that companies and entrepreneurs investing in ecological and economically socially responsible sustainability, public and animal health, animal welfare and so on deserve space. This new mixed company, whatever form it may take, does give effect to that. If Mr Schouw asks me if I would like to have several companies in the Netherlands organized in this way, I say "no'. I do not think that the Dutch landscape and the Dutch culture in rural areas are suitable for this. That's nothing new at all. The CDA has literally said so in several debates. My predecessors have done the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u24	I was not trying to provoke anything new to Mr Geurts, but I was trying to get a clearer, more political position from the CDA. Is Mr Geurts now saying that Grubbenvorst I is under the court, but that the position of the CDA with regard to Grubbenvorst II, III and IV is, after all, likely to be even more true: no, unless?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u25	The answer to that question is very simple: we are not about that. The spatial planning policy lies with the province and the municipality, I say to the D66 group. If there is an investigation from the Health Council that argues that these kinds of companies cannot do so, then the CDA will engage in a different conversation, but that is not at all the issue right now. That's what I was just trying to say. Mr Schouw may shake his head now, but this is the answer I give him.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u26	In his interesting speech, Mr Geurts said that rural development must take place in accordance with the population. In doing so, he suggests that there should at least be good consultation. What does he think of the social unrest and lack of social support for megasthals in general and this gigastal in Grubbenvorst specifically?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u27	I have tried to say that the CDA believes that entrepreneurs should be and remain in good conversation with their environment. Entrepreneurs should also listen to their environment. I have heard from the media that these entrepreneurs are talking to their environment. We can talk about this in the Chamber for a very long time, but we are not really talking about it in the end. Within the rules that exist in the Netherlands, this can be done. It is also an innovative company.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u28	Then it might be good to ask what the CDA's view is of the fact that the social support for these types of stables is very low.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u29	I have a different picture. In other provinces there are also people who have less difficulty with that, but again, within the rules in the Netherlands many things can be done. We have to acknowledge that, too. I would like to say the following before I come back to that at the end of my speech. The current developments in agriculture and horticulture are generally reactions of entrepreneurs to comply with motions adopted in this Chamber. The PvdA, which has almost taken over the election programme of the Party of Animals, also follows up on this. The result is that these types of companies are created. This is not because the entrepreneurs want it so badly, but because they have to do it in order to move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u30	I think that Mr Geurts is very degrading the office of MP, the highest office in the Netherlands. He also demotes himself. We're all over the place. The House of Representatives has everything to say and can always intervene. Even if we've given something out of our hands, if something threatens to go wrong, we have to take it back. I'd like to hear a response to that. There is a danger of a lack of veterinary direction. It warns of its impact on public health. There's no social support. The CDA recently said that it stands up for family and family businesses. Until recently, the CDA was certainly in favour of the giga and mega stables, but it has been turned to the advantage. But really stand up for the family and family businesses! I'd like to hear confirmation on that. Every megatal kills dozens of family and family businesses. And that's just the Cartiers under the watches, not the cheap Japanese Quartz watches. That's one way of looking at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u31	Mr Graus has asked several questions. I can answer the first question in the affirmative. The House of Representatives is an institution that represents the people. In the words of Mr Graus, the House of Representatives is the highest body. We are dealing with a lot of issues, but we also have a large number of issues in our legislation that concern the provinces and the municipalities. And to enter every time in that right of the province or the municipality! I wouldn't like to have a decision from the Chamber on every square mile in this country. The Chamber does not always have what is and is not possible on that square mile. The province and the municipality are much closer there. Mr Graus has asked another question. The CDA is indeed for family and family businesses. In a new mixed company several locations are merged. The image is that there is one large stable, but there are several locations and also several families involved. Mr Graus knows very well that the CDA is not very happy with the development that so many family businesses are forced to quit. But what's the cause of that? Those are the motions adopted by the Chamber which force these entrepreneurs to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u32	Mr Graus wishes to respond to this. Shortly, please!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u33	With all due respect, that's bullshit. The Chamber unanimously adopted a Graus motion which talks about a better income model for farmers. This should then be borne by the wealthy retailers. Here's what's important. The CDA has always been for the giga and mega stables. The CDA can no longer do so, because this is at the expense of family and family farms, public health and animal welfare. After all, there is no longer any possibility of veterinary control. Those animals will no longer be the animals that our family and family farms have. They can't get more pasture. There won't be any more of that possibility in a minute. You'll also get mega stables with cows that don't see daylight anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u34	What's the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u35	I want a reaction to that. I would point out to Mr Geurts that he is talking nonsense. Our dairy products are wanted worldwide. People are willing to pay a lot because it's gold. Those are our farmers and our animals. If there are mega stables, it will be a cheap mass production that is worth nothing abroad. That's why I just spoke about the Cartiers and the cheap Japanese Quartz watches.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u36	You have your own speaking time. You can leave your message in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u37	Mr Graus blames me for all sorts of things. However, last week a motion from the PVV was put to the vote, which talks about abolishing the bio-industry. These are the normal family and family businesses in the Netherlands. Mr Graus's party is therefore trying very hard to make these megastals possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u38	I would ask you to continue your argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u39	Okay, well, apparently I'm not allowed to put a lot of words into that anymore. Mr Graus did have a good point about the earning model. In the meantime, we should be much more concerned about the earning model. We should be much more concerned about the fact that every week in this Chamber there are motions to intervene in the management of entrepreneurs. The scale increase, the further intensification of agriculture and horticulture, is a regular response from entrepreneurs to meet these motions and to reduce margins. These are the real clamps in which we are currently in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u40	Mr. Chairman. I would nevertheless like to take this opportunity to welcome Mr Van Bommel to our little agricultural club. I'm assuming he's coming with me to the Grüne Woche next year. I advise him to put this in his agenda. I see Mr Van Bommel getting excited.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u41	Next year, Mr Van Bommel, I understand it will be January next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u42	I've never seen his eyes shine like that! There has already been a lot to do about the construction of the so-called mega stables in Grubbenvorst. The stable will be a complex with over 1.1 million chickens, 300,000 pigs and a biogas plant. There are still several legal procedures surrounding the authorisation for the construction of this stable. It is a question of what the Court can do about it during these legal proceedings. Therefore, I do not want to talk too much about Grubbenvorst 1, but especially about the future: Grubbenvorst 2, 3 and 4. First of all, I would like to ask a question about the provincial livestock policy. This has just been discussed in an interruption. A number of provinces try to control the growth of livestock farming themselves with instruments such as the Groninger earning model and the Brabant due diligence score. Of course, the Secretary of State knows all about it. In a recent ruling, the Council of State ruled that municipalities and provinces should not use the spatial policy to make agricultural holdings meet additional conditions. Only spatially relevant requirements may be included. Rules on animal health, animal welfare, fire safety and fine dust do not belong in space policy, the Council of State says. This ruling is also seen as a bomb under the provincial livestock policy. If so, I ask the Secretary of State, the House of Representatives will have to take action through the cabinet. If the provinces cannot restrict livestock farming, then the House of Representatives will have to do so. That is a pity for Mr Geurts, because he will have to confess to colour. I'm asking the Secretary of State to go into that. What does this mean for shifting policies? I never thought I'd ever agree with former Secretary of State Bleker, but I think I'd agree with him now. Of course, we are not supposed to go to extreme industrialization of livestock farming in this country. I repeat this to Mr Geurts and Mr Bleker. What instruments does the Secretary of State have or will it develop to counter Grubbenvorst 2, 3 and 4, wherever in this country?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u43	I would ask the honourable member of the D66 Group to do so fully when he quotes the CDA. I would like to hear a reply in the affirmative. In the past, D66 has announced the introduction of an agricultural programme. The media read that this was discussed at a D66 conference. I have not been present. When is this program due? What D66 now indicates is very similar to the program of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u44	I believe that Mr Geurts has discovered a new frame, because the Labour Party has just gained all this exclusivity. I suggest Mr Geurts keep it exclusive. I will try to quote Mr Geurts precisely. I think, however, that Mr Geurts really does eat off both sides. Mr President, I do not think that is a mistake. On the one hand he says that the CDA has a warm heart for the family business and on the other hand he lets big business go, with all the consequences that go with it. I think that is an unsaleable and unclear position. It's blowing all over the place. I am pleased that there is a great deal of interest in D66's agricultural vision, including from the CDA. The CDA may be able to learn something from it. The programme is under development and we have a while until the elections.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u45	Finally, Mr Geurts.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u46	Let me not go into that last point. The State elections are on 18 March. I think it is nice that the agricultural ideas of D66 are still under development, because that is in line with the idea that the Party for Animals programme has been taken over by D66 and the PvdA. Unfortunately, I cannot give you Exclusivity, because the Animal Party has moved on to the vegan lifestyle and will also shape it in its future party programme, I think. What matters now is that you just spoke about big business. If by that you mean family businesses and families who have been running their business for many decades and want a new future for that, that is big business. But these are just families who want to establish a business here. That has nothing to do with big business, industrialization and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u47	A brief response from Mr Schouw.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u48	I disagree with Mr Geurts. We have also had debates on this before in which someone even talked about the Chinese taking over our agriculture. I believe that Mr Geurts also had feelings about this, which he does not have now. It could be with the CDA and its spokesman!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u49	The more parties take over our party program, the better. We are certainly not of exclusivity. So that's very nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u50	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u51	Mr Schouw asked the Secretary of State what she was going to do about the inability for provinces to combat mega-stables. Now we know that there will be a law with animal numbers in which the Secretary of State gives the space to provinces and municipalities to decide for themselves whether these megastals are going to happen. We are concerned about this law because it creates arbitrariness and allows for mega-stables. Does Mr Schouw agree with me that this should not be the way?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u52	That is why I would also like to make a connection with the ruling of the Council of State two weeks ago. From that, I would ask the Secretary of State that the provinces do not actually have sufficient instruments to control that intensive livestock farming. If the provinces can't do that, the Empire will have to do so by means of legislation. Then we'll get it right here on our plate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u53	Mr. Chairman. I can reassure Mr Van Bommel with regard to our story. We have seen the Brabant motion adopted at the PvdA Congress as a support of our direction. If there's shit going on somewhere, it's in Brabant. That's where I'm from. I invite everyone in this room to tour a Saturday afternoon on the bike in East Brabant. Then you know exactly what I'm talking about. That is also why we do not consider this kind of stable to be desirable. Both the nuisance for the environment in terms of smell, noise, health, environment, not to mention the spoiling of the landscape, and the poor quality of animal welfare are unacceptable to the PvdA. We do not want these kinds of stables either, because there is very little public support for them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u54	It is, of course, good to hear from Mr Leenders that the motion by the Brabant PvdA members to make an effort to reduce livestock in the Netherlands actually supports what the group wants to do. Now we know that provinces and municipalities are given every opportunity to expand or reduce livestock farming. It will be left entirely to municipalities and provinces to decide which course they are going to take in relation to the increase or decrease in livestock. Is that supporting this motion, or can we expect the PvdA Group to have a stronger debate on this and that the law will be adopted by the group in the summer?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u55	The point of the motion is that there should be no livestock but that livestock should be reduced. With the way in which we do that, of course, we are going to work here in the Chamber. We wholeheartedly support the fact that this is determined by provinces and municipalities, or that they have a very great influence on it. We see in many areas that decentralisation to local authorities is good. The provinces and municipalities are closest to the population and can best estimate what is and is not possible and accepted there. As far as we are concerned, that is not a problem at all. However, we must ensure that we have sufficient legal instruments at national level to enable provinces and municipalities to do their work. In this context, I would like to refer to what Mr Schouw said about the recent ruling by the Council of State on a Brabant issue. Mr Schouw asked a very real question. I'm very curious what the Secretary of State will say to that...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u56	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u57	This means that I have a little more speaking time, because I would have liked to say that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u58	Today we cannot expect any criticism from the PvdA group of the municipality of Horst on the Meuse, because it is doing exactly what it is responsible for, namely the realization of a gigastal with 1.1 million and 30,000 pigs. I assume that Mr Leenders does not criticise this, because the municipality of Horst on the Meuse is simply doing what it is allowed to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u59	We must indeed respect what the city council and, in some cases, provincial states decide, because they form local democracy. If the inhabitants of the municipality of Horst on the Meuse disagree at some point, they can say: go home, someone else will do it. The people in Noord-Limburg, Oost-Brabant and Oost-Gelderland are the megastables and certainly the gigastables and the associated nuisance spuugzat. In answering questions from PvdA, SP and PvdD on 4 April last, the Secretary of State defends the construction of the barn in question because it meets the latest techniques and thus contributes to the knowledge about healthy stables. We also want this innovation, but we do not want this type of agricultural-industrial complex in rural areas. We don't want any more cattle either. We want even fewer cattle. Our hopes are based on the Animal Numbers and Public Health Act. I ask the Secretary of State to what extent this law can help us prevent our livestock from growing. To what extent can governments, i.e. provinces and municipalities, use this or any other law to counter undesirable developments at local or regional level? Next, a comment on the subsidy for innovation and the exemption from animal rights. We want animals to be able to exhibit their own behavior. That is what has been agreed in the coalition agreement. Stale species in which animals cannot exhibit their own behavior do not fit in our vision or in the coalition agreement. We find it unacceptable to grant subsidies through the Empire for these kinds of stables. We ask the Secretary of State to consider how this can be prevented in the future. We also ask her how it is possible to prevent this type of housing from being exempted from animal rights. Today's debate is actually about how we produce our food and how the agro-food sector develops in the long term. This is the subject of the debate on the movements of animal and plant food. We have discussed this in the debate on the Agriculture budget, and we are about to have a debate on this on the basis of the opinion of the WRR. In advance, I ask the Secretary of State what she thinks about the transition from animal to plant. What role can and does the government want to play here?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u60	Madam President. First of all, I would like to congratulate the junior member Van Bommel on his maiden speech on the committee 'Shit on the marble'. Welcome! It's an honor to be able to debate with him once. I had no reason to break into his speech, which is a good thing. Since 2006, the PVV has included the phasing-out of the bio-industry in its party programme, not only for animal welfare and animal and public health, but also because the PVV is fighting for the preservation of the often centuries-old family and family farms, which are destroyed by the arrival of mega- and gigas. It's just these primordial-Hollandish "Hollandsche" with "sch" written companies that built up name and fame all over the world. In China, for example, there is a real run on dairy products from these family and family businesses and they are prepared to pay very high prices. We must fight for this; we must fight for it. We need to ensure a better earning model. The motion for a resolution on this matter has been adopted, so we shall be working on it. Mega stables and gigas are not necessary at all, because a farmer must be able to earn more per product. The bio-industry will not be needed at all. With the PVV line, the bio-industry is superfluous. Then the cows can, so to speak, get names again: Clara, Bertha et cetera. But farmers don't make it anymore. It's impossible for them to conduct veterinary control if there are hundreds of cows in a barn right away. This also affects the grazing area. Another threat is posed by foreign investors from Asia, for example. Russia also wants to build gigastables in our country. Apart from all the dangers and disadvantages mentioned, there is a lack of social support, especially in our beautiful............................................................................................................................................ The PVV supported several motions for a moratorium on the construction and financing of mega-stables abroad. But here in the Netherlands, too, we have tried to thwart it, at least where possible, when we were discussing it as Members of Parliament. We have not only a large constituency in the area around Venlo, which is counting on us. We'll represent them well. I don't think the government should choose a handful of rich investors. I believe that the Secretary of State should opt for dozens of doomed family and family businesses, thousands of people living around and the welfare of more than a million animals, because the fun is impossible when a disease breaks out or fires out. After all, you are more at risk with these gigas and megasthals. Recently, the PVV's motion for a better income model for farmers was adopted unanimously by the powerful retailers, allowing them to support their families without scaling up. Promote and reward hard-working farmers. I ask the Secretary of State to use all powers to prevent the construction of mega- and gigastals. Promote family and family businesses. Help those people. We're the Cartiers. Our farmers form the "Cartiers," as we know the Swiss watches, with worldwide name and fame. Our farmers have them all over the world when it comes to animals and products. We have to keep it that way. It shouldn't be cheap Japanese Quartz watches.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u61	I was also very pleased that the Freedom Party then supported a moratorium on the construction of mega-stables. Now we have to wait a while for the Secretary of State's new bill. In addition, there is an investigation into the health risks in the bio-industry. Does Mr Graus agree with me that, as long as it is still unclear and therefore we cannot yet control the growth of all these megas, we should now have a moratorium on licensing, so that we can also protect family farms?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u62	Yeah, that's our line, too. That is also apparent from my entire speech. But I don't want it at all. Whatever reason is mentioned to postpone it, I will always support it, because that also buys time. If we can frustrate it somewhere, we will. We want to stand for those small family and family businesses, not for some investors who have nothing to do with our farmers, with our animals and with the quality of our products. It's going down, believe me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u63	I assume you're ready. I think you'll be out in three minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u64	Sure. I still have one final word. On behalf of the committee, I say that we went to the Grüne Woche at the invitation of the Secretary of State. It showed again how important we are. We have the best farmers and even the best Secretary of State, the best stand, the best products. It was also one of the best Grüne Wochen for us. That's what I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u65	This brings us to the end of the first term of office. The Secretary of State needs a five-minute suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u66	Mr. Chairman. This debate has indeed been requested a long time ago. Mr Schouw also said very strikingly that it is about an individual company and that the Council of State will still make statements as to whether it complies with all the rules. It is therefore difficult for me to say anything in this individual case. Before answering the questions of the Chamber, it is nevertheless good to comment in general terms on the developments of intensive livestock farming in the Netherlands. In the coalition agreement, we found that we would like to move towards an even greater animal welfare and more sustainable livestock farming. At the same time, we want to support all farmers and entrepreneurs working in intensive livestock farming from society. We need social support for this. It is clear that this support is under pressure, as several Members of Parliament have said. So I agree with almost all those Members who have found that we do not want to move towards further industrialization of intensive livestock farming. Having said that, because that is what you can find, it is not so easy to prevent it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u67	That is indeed another point. However, I would like to talk about what you choose, namely a transition to more sustainable livestock farming. I would like to know whether, as her predecessor says, looking at Grubbenvorst with 1.1 million chickens and 35,000 pigs, this does not fit within her vision of what livestock farming should look like. Secretary of State Bleker said: no, that does not fit in. I'd like to get confirmation from this Secretary of State that she sees it the same way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u68	Again, I've just begun to give my vision. Now that this case is under the courts, I do not think it is appropriate to rule on individual cases. In general, I have just made it clear that further industrialization of intensive livestock farming is not my vision of the future, but that it is not easy to bring about a change, a transition. I was just about to tell the Chamber what we're all doing to do that, together with the farmers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u69	To know what to do, you need to know what you want or don't want. If the Secretary of State says he does not want further industrialization of livestock farming, I want to know whether this gigastal is a further industrialization of livestock farming. I do not therefore ask the Secretary of State to give an opinion on the state of play and the legal procedures. I understand she doesn't want to judge that. I am simply asking for an opinion on whether such a gigastal with 1.1 million chickens and 35,000 pigs is a further industrialization, just as Secretary of State Bleker had an opinion on this. The Secretary of State can simply say yes or no. If she can't, it's very difficult for me to judge if she's taking the right steps to avoid something we don't know what.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u70	Mrs Thieme is well aware that many steps have been taken since this cabinet took office to make intensive livestock farming more sustainable, both in the field of animal welfare and in the field of the environment. It is important to note that different actions are being taken, both from the cabinet and from the provinces. I would therefore like to say two things about this. It has been established by the Cabinet that, from the point of view of public health, there may be reason to set limits to the growth of livestock farming, whether in the region or in an individual location. Then it is necessary to do research to support that relationship scientifically, as it were. That investigation is now under way and we have a legislative proposal under consultation. I have indicated earlier in many debates that the bill will undoubtedly come to the Chamber in a different form than it is now in consultation, otherwise we will not have to ask people for their opinion. Mr Schouw asked me if the recent ruling of the Council of State makes it more difficult for the provinces to take responsibility. Moreover, I very much welcome their desire to do so. The Council of State's recent ruling was on an issue in North Brabant. This was not so much about the spatial requirements of the province. We do see, however, that in future there may be consequences for the area that provinces have in order to make further demands. For this reason, the cabinet has been called upon from North Brabant to make it possible, through an experimental clause in the Crisis and Recovery Act, for further demands to be made. This is already in the room. In other words, for existing companies covered by the Environmental Action Decision, it is possible to draw up customised rules for odour and particulate matter, because of the quality of life and public health in the area. In addition, efforts are being made to broaden the scope of the Brabant Regulation space. This means that North Brabant can take into account efforts by farmers in other areas, such as animal welfare and veterinary medicines, to promote more sustainable livestock farming when considering spatial decisions. The support of the Parliament of the AMvB with which the experiment is designated has been completed. This has been done through the permanent committee on infrastructure and the environment. There were also questions from the Chamber about the experiment. However, the veil did not lead to a change. This means that the AMvB with which the experiment is designated is now before the Council of State for advice. I and M expect this AMvB to be able to enter into force before the summer. What does this mean? On the one hand, I am now working on a legislative proposal that offers opportunities for restrictions on the basis of public health. As you can see, my colleague from I and M specifically supports the province of Noord-Brabant to make demands on livestock farming in the field of sustainability and animal welfare, through an experimental article in the Crisis and Recovery Act. In this way we try to support the provinces from the national government in their efforts to make demands and to increase support for livestock farming.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u71	Mr Schouw, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u72	It's nice to hear about that General Measure of Management. I ask the Secretary of State if she wishes to check whether the General Measure of the Board provides sufficient relief in relation to both the Groninger earning model and the Brabant due diligence scores. I do not need the answer now, but at least we will have the guarantee that the provinces will be able to use it as a steering tool.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u73	Commissioner De Boer has asked the cabinet for that experimental article. We have tried from EZ to play a positive role in this towards our colleagues. It is precisely intended to support the plans of the province. That check you're asking for, I'd like to take it for granted. Several Members have asked what the Council of State has and has not said in the Grubbenvorst case. Well, there are still a lot of statements and hearings to be made at the moment. The responsibility for spatial planning lies with the municipalities and the provinces. Mr Leenders gave this to Mr Leenders in his own way, even though he was judged by the Municipal Councils and the Provincial States. Mr Van Bommel asked me to say with him that an animal is more than a piece of meat. Sure, I'd very much like to agree with him. That is why, in the coalition agreement and in the cabinet policy, we have worked to make livestock farming more sustainable. Various measures have also been taken to improve animal welfare. We're looking at new barn systems. New stables have to meet that. We have been working on further environmental boundary conditions. Mr Leenders has already said that public support is very important and I agree with him. Mr Leenders has asked to what extent my bill on animal numbers and the relationship with public health is going to ensure that there are no new developments such as those in Grubbenvorst. The Bill on Animal Numbers and Public Health provides opportunities for fellow governments to intervene when there are public health risks. So this is a co-government move. In the summer, the House will be presented with the proposal. I have already proposed to the Chamber that it be discussed in due course and assessed on its merits. Then almost everyone thought that was a good idea. Then it's up to you to decide if you think it's far enough. Then I come to the ruling of the Council of State on Grubbenvorst. All licensing procedures are still in progress. With the building permit, phase 1 is final, but phase 2 is still ongoing. There is now an appeal to the Council of State on environmental permits. The same applies to the Nature Protection Laws. The Empire is not a party to these proceedings. Mr Geurts and Mr Graus have both rightly spoken about the earning model. Mr Geurts said that the result of making far-reaching demands on livestock farming could be to increase the scale. Apart from what you think of that, you can see that this is indeed the case. In recent years, we have seen a trend of scaling up. Investment in new housing systems and in measures to reduce environmental impacts must be recouped. Often you see that this is solved on the yard by making scaling a part of the earning model. However, we want to make that transition now. I am very glad that a lot of farmers want this too. They want more sustainable meat and a higher standard of animal welfare, but they also want to earn it back in the market. This means that the whole chain, Mr Graus, says that it is right that the price should be paid. This starts with producers who are sometimes in the chain between farmers and retailers and it ends with consumers. We have to keep telling that story. A moratorium is not possible. We have discussed this many times in your Chamber. You have to have a title to ban entrepreneurs from one day to the next who comply with the rules we have all agreed to. I have already exchanged many debates with Mrs Thieme that we are taking a number of steps, but I am not considering this step.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u74	The title is Article 4.3 of the Spatial Planning Act. It states that rules can be laid down on the content of municipal planning plans, provincial integration plans and environmental permits. Those are the TIFKAPs. In view of the State interest, a General Measure of Management can therefore be used. In this case, public health is of paramount importance. The Bill on Animal Numbers and Public Health shows that the government considers public health to be a subject that needs to be framed at a state level.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u75	Yes, Mr President, but I don't need a moratorium on that, because that's what I think. That is why I am now preparing a legislative proposal, and that has everything to do with proportionality. Even if you can prove that there is a direct relationship, for example, between a farmer and his animals and public health, even if that farmer complies with all the environmental standards and spatial planning rules, Mrs Thieme still thinks that you can say from today to tomorrow: it cannot be done. I'm not gonna get very far with a proposal like that. I can easily imagine that this proportionality will also allow the judges in this country to see that this is out of proportion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u76	These are two assumptions made by the Secretary of State. Firstly, there would be no title on the basis of a moratorium. It has been established that there is a title, but the Secretary of State does not want it. That's different from the performance that there's no title. Secondly, the extent to which large-scale risks to public health arise is still being examined. Since the Secretary of State says that he would like to take seriously the declining social support of the mega-stables, it seems reasonable to me that, pending the entry into force of the Animal Numbers Act, it should not be allowed to expand in order to allow megastal languages. The question to the Secretary of State is: why does the Secretary of State not want to make this possible in the law now?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u77	You say there is a title. However, I would like to tell you what complications there are that do not just give you a title. It is not just a question of wanting or not, it is also a question of what proposals you can make that will eventually stand. That's the sense of reality I like to try to land. I know it's hard, but it's necessary. At the moment when entrepreneurs comply with all the precautionary principles that we have already laid down in laws and regulations, you cannot just say in this country: we will simply stop doing so today in the morning. All these requirements in the area of land-use planning and all these environmental standards have been partly established on the basis of that precautionary principle. That may be possible in Mrs Thieme's world, but it cannot be done on the basis of the responsibility you bear for this issue. I don't take that responsibility either.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u78	Now Mrs Thieme can respond, because she is being provoked into her world.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u79	The world of Mrs Thieme? Secretary of State Bleker has in fact set up a moratorium and is therefore more decisive and more animal-friendly than this State Secretary. I never thought that was possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u80	May I ask Mrs Thieme what moratorium she means here?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u81	Two motions were adopted in the Chamber in 2012, one of D66 and one of the Party for Animals. These motions were carried out by the State Secretary by asking the municipalities not to grant permits for megastals. It seems very clear to me that this Secretary of State could have done the same. Apparently, she doesn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u82	Well, I've just been asked what exactly is going on with an earlier bill that you've all been referring to. That bill was not such that I could come to you with it. I am trying to make it clear that we may have adopted a lot of motions during the previous period, but that it did not then lead to concrete actions that made it impossible for companies to settle down; not even in Grubbenvorst's case.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u83	I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u84	Mr Leenders asked me how I look at the transition from animal to plant and what role the cabinet can play in this. I would like to refer to the cabinet response that is to come on the report of the WRR. That reaction is currently being developed. I say to Mr Leenders that this issue will certainly be part of that cabinet response. I believe that this is indeed an important element. With this, I want to end my contribution to this term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u85	I asked what instruments the Secretary of State has or intends to develop to curb Grubbenvorst 2, 3 and 4. Maybe I missed the answer to that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u86	I have really gone into this in detail in my speech just now. I explained to the Chamber that a bill would come to the Chamber from my position in relation to public health. I explained that, at the request of the Brabant Province in this case, the Cabinet is now in the process of giving more space to Brabant through the Crisis and Recovery Act and the experimental article provinces, in this case. That was the answer to Mr Schouw's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u87	Well, I guess I got it right. Of course, I was trying to get the Secretary of State to think. I do not think it is possible for her policy to create more Grubbenvorsten in the future. In my opinion, the Secretary of State agrees with a large part of the Chamber, which feels that this is "once and never again."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u88	No, Mr Schouw cannot ask me that. I can assure him that I will take up the opportunities I have for the sustainability of livestock farming and the fight against industrialization. I've already made that commitment. I'll do that along the line I outlined the Chamber. That is also what emerged in the debate that took place in response to what Mr Bleker once did. It will be very difficult to do this on the basis of, for example, pure animal numbers. It will be very difficult to say: we do not want this stable because it houses more than a certain amount of animals. We are now flying on another route, which is based on animal welfare and sustainability. I think that road is sustainable.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u89	I asked another question about subsidies.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u90	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u91	I have seen what has been reported to the Chamber in writing. However, I also specifically asked about Grubbenvorst himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u92	That's right. I'm gonna try to get my hands on the pretty state of that. I found it. Entrepreneurs received an innovation grant in 2005 for planning, advisory services and legal support in the further development of the design. This involved €148,000. They received an innovation grant of €458 000 in 2007. An innovation grant of €500,000 was granted in 2009. However, it is important to note that these grants did not relate to the physical realisation of the New Mixed Company, but to planning, innovation and pilot projects on a pilot plant and on existing business sites. What's going on with that New Mixed Company? Several entrepreneurs are involved who now have their poultry holding in, for example, a sensitive nature reserve. They're gonna shut down those companies and move to Grubbenvorst. They do not only want to keep poultry and pigs there, they also want to work on a bio-energy plant. There are also opportunities to have a slaughterhouse, which means, for example, that there is no need to transport live animals. I believe that these innovations have been supported through subsidies.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u93	I see some of that money end up in the promotion of animal welfare, but I also see some of that money end up in supporting the development of industrial livestock farming. The Secretary of State has said that she does not want to promote industrial livestock farming. I am not in a position to reconcile these issues, but with regard to the promotion of animal welfare, but not with regard to the promotion of industrial animal husbandry.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u94	Again, it is not the case that those funds, which have already been granted 10 years and 8 years ago, have been used for the physical realisation of the New Mixed Company. These resources are focused on several other aspects. The results of these pilot projects are also available for the whole sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u95	This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I understand that not everyone needs a second term. I call Mr Van Bommel. He has a minute's speaking time. Yeah, one minute. It is said here: one third of the first-term speaking time. The clerk knows that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u96	Mr. Chairman. Then I'll be brief. In the interrupting debates, the difference of opinion between a large part of the Chamber and the Secretary of State became very clear: do you have to try to dissect this issue legally or politically? The Secretary of State is trying to accommodate the Chamber by saying that it does not want to move towards further industrialisation of livestock farming. My group, the SP Group, does not want that either. Yet we see this happening. This development is now taking place and is supported by the government, with subsidies and with policies. We are against that. We do not think that is a good thing. We would like this Secretary of State to be at the forefront in the search and use of instruments that prevent that development. In this way we are creating this further industrialization and we are taking a path that we do not want. In this way we will have a Grubbenvorst 2, 3 and 4. There's no getting away from that. That is why I would like to table a number of motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u97	A couple of motions? You have one more second.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u98	Was my speaking time including the motions?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u99	Yes, of course, always. You've been with this longer than today. Come on, Mr Van Bommel, you know that very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u100	This is very different in other policy areas. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to make every effort to stop the arrival of the gigastal in Grubbenvorst of the New Mixed Company, if necessary with an emergency law,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Bommel. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28973-154]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u101	Then I'll close by filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to:]] [[ensure that manure processing does not lead to the growth of livestock in the Netherlands;]] [[promote land-based and closed-loop cycles on the farms themselves;]] [[limit large-scale manure treatment to industrial areas (category 4 and 5) and not to take place in the outside area,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Bommel. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28973-155]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u102	For your convenience: this motion fits exactly with the PvdA's motion at its congress.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u103	Mr. Chairman. The industrialization of livestock farming continues. We are very concerned about its speed and about the fact that it is still a long time before a new law is introduced that can limit it. That's why I'm filing the next motion. This motion can in principle count on a majority in the Chamber if the PvdA Group takes its ideals seriously. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Alterra (2007) uses a definition for a megastal based on:]] [[7,500 pig meat, 1,200 breeding pigs;]] [[120,000 laying hens, 220,000 chickens;]] [[250 dairy cows or 2,500 meat calves;]] [[noting that RIVM is currently investigating the relationship between intensive livestock farming and health effects on residents;]] [[noting that the Chamber is awaiting the Bill on Animal Numbers and Public Health;]] [[calls on the Government, pending the outcome of the examination of the RIVM and the entry into force of the Animal Numbers and Public Health Act, to take a preparatory decision declaring a moratorium on the construction of farms and making this decision known to provinces and municipalities as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Thieme and Mr Van Bommel. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28973-156]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u104	Finally, I have a motion which is entirely in line with the motion of the PvdA members. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to:]] [[to work to reduce livestock in the Netherlands;]] [[ensure that legislation is more targeted and speedy from the precautionary principle (environmental and spatial planning) to reduce the risk of outbreaks of zoonoses,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Thieme. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28973-157]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u105	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for her reply and for her commitment to carry out that check in the two areas covered by the General Measure. I was not actually going to use the second term, but there is one point that I find very special in replying to the Secretary of State. Nine out of ten times I very much agree with the Secretary of State, but I do not think it is rhymeable that she says on the one hand that her starting point is not extreme industrialization of livestock farming, but on the other hand she does not dare to say anything about Grubbenvorst 2, 3 and 4. I just wanted to get that out of here anyway. I find that very special. I hope the Secretary of State will make up for her future policy. We can talk about it long and wide, but if that plant in Grubbenvorst is not an example of extreme industrialization of livestock farming, what would it be?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u106	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for a pleasant answer to the questions and for going into the matter. I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is no social support for mega-stables;]] [[noting that the Council of State has recently considered that non-spatial aspects should not be taken into account in spatial planning decisions;]] [[Whereas megasms such as those in Grubbenvorst are undesirable given the zoonoses risk, the negative effects on air, soil and water quality and odour nuisance;]] [[calls on the government to make effective laws or regulations that will prevent the provinces and the government from setting up any future megastorms,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Leenders and Mr Van Dekken. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28973-158]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u107	It's spicy for the Labour Party to table such a motion. Does that mean that the Labour Party's group will be the Secretary of State or Government? calls on the cabinet to take everything out of the closet to stop Grubbenvorst 1 from going through with it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u108	No, that's not the thrust of this motion. The thrust of this motion is, in view of what we have just talked about, that provinces and municipalities, but also the government, have the tools to make decisions if they are in the interests of the region.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u109	Mr. Chairman. I have two brief motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to use all its powers to prevent the construction of mega- and giga-stales,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to use all its powers to promote the survival of our family and/or family businesses,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28973-159]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28973-160]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u110	With this I have made up for 40 seconds of Mr Van Bommel.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u111	I am also very proud of you, Mr Graus. You, together with Mr Geurts, are the only one who has stayed within the time. We'll wait until the Secretary of State has all the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u112	Mr. Chairman. I will try very quickly to provide an opinion on the seven motions. The motion in part No. 154 who asks the government to stop the New Mixed Company, I must advise against. In my first term, I gave an extensive reasoning as to why I cannot stop it. It's under the judge now, too. The motion in part No. 155 I must also advise against. Manure processing as such does not lead to the growth of livestock. I do, of course, have a law in preparation that establishes a relationship with public health which will make it possible to limit growth if it is necessary. In addition, I have in preparation an AMvB dairy farming, which deals with the responsible growth of dairy farming. That AMvB is coming to parliament on March 1st. The motion in part No. 156 of Mr Thieme and Mr Van Bommel, in which the government is asked to take a preparatory decision in order to arrive at a moratorium, I must advise against. The Health Council has indicated that there is currently no title, that there are no grounds to take action. There has been a pressing request for further investigation. The cabinet has now also financed this research, and that is what is coming. For that reason, I cannot do what is stated in this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u113	If the Health Council says there is no title, then the Secretary of State does not mean a title for the government to refuse a megastal and therefore does not mean that the Health Council has said anything about a title to establish a moratorium. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u114	Yeah, that's right, but the moment you look at it legally, those things have something to do with each other. You do need convincing evidence to justify why you are adopting such a far-reaching measure as a moratorium. That's what I've been trying to explain. Then I come to the motion on part No. 157. I'll come up with a bill. So for that reason alone, I should discourage the motion. We're going to discuss that bill in detail. For the motion by Mr Leenders and Mr Van Dekken to item No. 158 is the same thing. I'll come up with a bill. I would therefore ask the authors to hold this motion. If they are not prepared to do so, I must advise against the motion, also because I cannot take on board the way in which a number of things have been expressed in the recitals from my position. The motion in part No. 159 I must advise against, on the basis of the reasoning I gave in my first term. And then I come, last but not least, to the motion in part No. 160 in which the government is asked to make every effort to promote the survival of family or family businesses. I see this motion as a support for my policy and would like to leave it to the House to decide on that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u115	With the Secretary of State's explanation, we're holding the motion in part No. 158 on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u116	At the request of Mr Leenders, I propose his motion (28973, No. 158). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u117	We will vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday.
