ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-16.u1	I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Health, Welfare and Sport. First, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Keijzer from the CDA group, but not without saying that speaking time is two minutes, including the tabling of possible motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-16.u2	Mr. Chairman. In the AO we talked about intensive child care. The question was also raised as to whether the guidance sometimes needed for these children due to educational problems would also be covered by the Health Insurance Act. I was going to table a motion on that today, but I did so last week. Unfortunately, that motion was voted down this afternoon. There was also no support from political groups that I had expected. That's too bad. For the people involved, this means another locker that they have to go through in order to get good support for their serious or multiple disabled children properly arranged. We've been talking about the patients' stoppages in the neighborhood nursing. The Secretary of State simply says: I'm going to see in spring what exactly is going on with the realization of the figures, how much is actually being spent on community nursing. He sent the Chamber a letter saying it wasn't too bad. However, I have Vektis figures showing that there is already a deficit of 200 to 300 million. The Secretary of State said in the budget debate that his figures are better. That can't be true. I shall therefore table the next motion. With that, I want to get a ruling from the Chamber. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is a total amount of declared and received district nursing services mentioned in the letter of 2 November 2015;]] [[whereas the Lower House wishes to be more widely informed about the declared and received district care, taking into account the differences per region, the number of hours of Intensive Child Care (IKZ), the number of hours of palliative care, pgb declarations and uncontracted care and the number of hours of case manager dementia;]] [[calls on the Government to send these figures to the House of Representatives before 11 December 2015, as much as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Keijzer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29689-665]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-16.u3	Intensive child care.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-16.u4	... make "intensive child care"? Abbreviations in motions are an abomination.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-16.u5	Yeah, I get that. The parents who are involved in this are absolutely aware of what this is about. They hate the fact that this motion was voted on this afternoon. That means a lot of extra talking to get the care of the child around. I'll say one last thing about it. I hope that the motion for a resolution on getting the services actually provided on the table will be adopted, even if only because it was agreed to monitor properly when the healthcare agreement with the sector was concluded. You don't do monitors for nothing. Monitors are used to keep an eye on whether things are going well. Patient stops indicate that this is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-16.u6	Mr. Chairman. Two weeks ago, after reports in the media, extensive attention was asked for the fact that people who died did not always receive terminal home care in good time and even eventually had to die in hospital against their will. That is why the Group of the Party of European Socialists has tabled the following motion for a resolution. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas district care is part of the basic package and health insurers have a duty to provide care;]] [[noting that patients had to die in hospital because they did not receive terminal home care in good time;]] [[Considers that for terminal patients immediate home care should be available;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that any terminal patient can die at home if he/she so wishes, and together with health insurers and providers to ensure that patients and close relatives do not encounter any obstacles in arranging timely terminal home care,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wolbert. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29689-666]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-16.u7	My second motion is about getting caught in the neighborhood nursing care. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that patients should be provided with care in a timely manner if necessary and should not encounter any obstacles;]] [[noting that health insurers and providers of community care do not engage in conversation until there is a threat of budget cuts;]] [[Considers that health insurers and providers should be more proactive when the contracted budget becomes tighter;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that health insurers and providers make regional cooperation arrangements with each other so that more care can be bought in time or patients know where to go in time,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wolbert. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29689-667]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-16.u8	I have a quick question. This is a commendable effort by the PvdA Group, but does she agree with me that we should have access to this Secretary of State in what is now the situation with contracted and actually delivered community care? Otherwise, you have no idea what you're talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-16.u9	I am concerned that, as far as we can see from the Chamber, there are regional differences between providers. One provider still has some space and the other has no room at all and threatens to stop patients. That gives rise to a lot of unnecessary unrest in patients. I think it is important that then, as happened with Vierstroom, a health insurance provider takes a step forward and looks at where there is still room in a region. The health insurance companies should encourage agreements to be made between providers on how this is done, so that a patient is not sent from the cabinet to the wall but immediately knows: there is still room, I can go there. That is quite different from the fact that the quarterly figures are here in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-16.u10	Thus, the PvdA steps away from the patient's freedom of choice, because apparently institutions will decide between themselves where someone gets their care.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-16.u11	I think that is far from the point of view of the motion. The point is that agreements are made on time if there is still room on the one hand and not on the other. This should not be done only at the time when one provider already causes a lot of unrest through publicity and puts in the newspaper that he is considering a patient stop. You can get ahead of that, and then you save a lot of unrest and unnecessary fuss in patients. They should simply have the confidence that it will be arranged when necessary. There is a great deal that healthcare providers can do to each other, just through conversations. That's what this motion is about. I'm asking the Secretary of State to promote that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-16.u12	Mr. Chairman. On behalf of my colleague Fleur Agema, I shall table the next motion. Unfortunately, she's home sick. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that during the Dutch trade mission in China led by Z.K.H. Willem-Alexander, in the presence of the Secretary of State of VWS, has been signed a covenant with Chinese partners that Neighborhood Care Netherlands will set up teams in China, Taiwan, Singapore and Korea;]] [[Whereas this Dutch model has now been adopted by several countries;]] [[Whereas Dutch district nurses still have to work with a bureaucratic consultation system of social care teams and with four products for nursing and care at different prices;]] [[asks the government to take the approach of Buurtzorg Nederland (one product at one price) as a standard for nursing and care,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Klever and Mr Agema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29689-668]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-16.u13	Mr. Chairman. D66 is concerned about whether sufficient specialised care is being purchased, hence this motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are currently signs that there is not enough specialised care purchased by health insurers, such as case managers dementia, specialists in elder medicine and child nurses;]] [[Considers that these specialist forms are particularly valuable for qualitative care and should be sufficiently purchased;]] [[calls on the Government to examine whether sufficient of this specialist care is being purchased and, if no, what the reasons are for this and to share its findings with the Chamber before the end of this year,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Bergkamp. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29689-669]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-16.u14	These forms of care are of course expensive, because this is more than the simple help with showering. We are constantly talking about community nursing, but there is simply not enough money available for this if you look at Vektis' figures. The total cut of 400 million is unlikely to be achieved. How does D66 look at that? If you know clearly that too little has been bought in and the reason for this is that there is actually too much austerity, shouldn't you be acting on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-16.u15	That's a like-dan question. Our motion calls for the facts to be put on the table. Is there enough specialised care being bought in? If not, what are the reasons for that? If the situation is then that there is not enough care to be bought in, I ask the Secretary of State to resolve the matter. I think it is premature to anticipate the outcome of the investigation, because I would not have had to ask for an investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-16.u16	If so, it would be wise for the D66 group not to set the deadline at the end of the year, but as in my motion on 11 December. Because if you then conclude that it is not going well, you can also do something. Otherwise you can't do anything anymore and it's talk for the stage. For that, the concerns and misery of the people involved are simply too great.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-16.u17	I think Mrs Keijzer's suggestion to look at the date is very good. I also note that the amendments tabled by the CDA during the budgetary procedure to provide additional money for care all had inadequate funding. I think it's hard to find extra money. I think Mrs Keijzer agrees with me, looking at VWS's opinion, that all her amendments had inadequate coverage.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-16.u18	That's not correct. The specific coverage for the neighbourhood care can be arranged in this way. On the basis of Article 11 of the Health Insurance Act, a decision can be taken on the basis of care claims and further rules can be laid down on that basis. I'm sure it's possible. In the event that it is not possible to do so, we have tabled a motion to finance it in a different way. So it's not the question if it's possible, but if D66 wants it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-16.u19	I'd like to respond to that. It's true that the CDA has filed a motion. There too, there was no cover. Of course, it's nice to call on the Secretary of State to take care of things, but that's what I really think for the stage if the CDA can't provide proper coverage.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-16.u20	Mrs Keijzer, you are being addressed, but of course we are not going through with this for half an hour.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-16.u21	I only need one sentence. In the motion there is a cover. Apart from that, it would be interesting to ask the Secretary of State what cover he will have if it turns out that money is needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-16.u22	That is an interesting suggestion from Mrs Keijzer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-16.u23	Is that how it's handled? I see that's the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-16.u24	Mr. Chairman. I'm filing two motions that I'll read to you now. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that health insurers are obliged to provide sufficient capacity for their insured persons and that it is in the interest of health insurers that insured persons have a choice in their care;]] [[Whereas a new funding model is being developed for the health care department, including population benefit and quality-based procurement;]] [[Whereas, in the rural area in particular, the quality, freedom of choice and availability of neighbourhood care during night and weekend hours is under pressure;]] [[calls on the Government, when developing the new funding model, to ensure that the quality, freedom of choice and availability of contracted neighbourhood care is guaranteed during night and weekend hours and in rural areas,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that health insurers have included in their health insurance law-specific budget (Swv-pgb) conditions that a personalised budget is only possible when care is non-planable;]] [[Whereas insured persons experience that health insurers use a too broad definition of planned care;]] [[calls on the Government to carry out a quick scan of health insurers and to inform the Office for the Law Treatment of the Implementation of a Health Insurance Law Personal Budget on how health insurers implement in practice the definition of planned and non-planned care,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29689-670]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29689-671]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-16.u25	Mr. Chairman. In general consultation we had a wide-ranging exchange of views on the health care department. The Secretary of State has made a fine undertaking that he is going to investigate how this pressure on the budget arises, insofar as this is actually the case. Does what we do not want take place, namely that things from the Wmo are printed in the neighbourhood nurse's care? Or is there at the same time what we do want, namely to prevent unnecessary entry into the Long-Term Care Act? When does the Secretary of State expect to have that kind of information available? Can he send a letter to the Chamber about that? In addition, I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas direct compliance with the obligation of care is essential in vulnerable specialist care such as terminal home care;]] [[noting that part of this vulnerable specialist care was under-contracted in 2015, which prevented a group of people from dying at home as desired;]] [[calls on the Government to ask the Dutch Health Care Authority to pay particular attention to compliance with the obligation of care in the case of vulnerable specialist care when monitoring the contracting by health insurers both in the assessment of procurement policy in April and in the assessment of the purchased care in November,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Rutte. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29689-672]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-16.u26	Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. The first is about the pilot of Achmea. That motion was also signed by Mrs Bergkamp of D66. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that local health care providers who are not contracted in the Achmea pilot project can be reimbursed only 75% of their work;]] [[noting that well-functioning structures are broken in the neighbourhoods and that the patient may lose his trusted aid provider;]] [[considers that this pilot disrupts existing structures in such a way that a pilot can no longer be discussed;]] [[declares that the Achmea pilot should be stopped,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Siderius and Mr Bergkamp. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29689-673]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-16.u27	I think that's a good suggestion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-16.u28	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-16.u29	I'm getting all freaked out, Chairman. During the general consultation we also discussed that this pilot project is supported by the college in Utrecht, where the SP itself is present. It is supported and designed together with Achmea. Isn't it a little strange that the municipality is enthusiastic, and with that also the SP, local, what it's about, but that we're going to say through the Chamber that we can't?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-16.u30	This is a pilot that the Chamber can give its opinion on. The SP thinks this is a very bad idea. I don't understand why the VVD is such an enthusiastic supporter of this pilot. This makes freedom of choice, which liberals should be very much in favour of, really very difficult. The existing structures and the relationship between the aid provider and the client are being broken. That's something the SP really can't support. I am not about the decisions the college makes in Utrecht.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-16.u31	Then I'll try again. I am addressed to the fact that the VVD is for maximum freedom of choice. However, it is important that coordination is carried out in a social neighbourhood team in the area care department. Then it is not so strange that there is one main contractor in a district and that there is enough freedom of choice, and that is what we stand for. I therefore repeat that I find it rather odd that the SP is trying to turn its back on this pilot project through the Chamber, while the city council agrees with it and also the administration in the city of Utrecht, of which the SP itself is part, is enthusiastic about it. I can't understand that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-16.u32	Then Mr Rutte does not understand. I explained it very clearly. I'm not about the decisions of a college. I am sure that I can also point out to Mr Rutte's party a number of lectures which carry out policies other than those advocated by the VVD in the Chamber. In the municipality of Zwolle, for example, where I myself live, I have enough examples of this. Health insurers are simply covered by national legislation. We really do not like this pilot, because the freedom of choice that the VVD always gives up so highly is broken. Mr Rutte says that this freedom of choice is maintained. That's not true. Clients have to go to a certain healthcare provider and the SP thinks that is really undesirable. We really think it is very important that the relationship between the aid worker and the client should be maintained. That's often a relationship of trust. That is what Mr Rutte wants to break, and that is something the SP really cannot be for.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-16.u33	Mr. Rutte, you're being addressed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-16.u34	That's not how I experience it. I'm not breaking anything. There is a pilot project which seeks to achieve a different coordination. Then it would be strange for Mrs Siderius to accuse me of breaking through certain relationships.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-16.u35	If we enter this pilot, we won't get back what we have right now. This is structural. We're gonna destroy something that unfortunately we're never gonna get back.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-16.u36	I would like to know from Mrs Siderius what she thinks about the fact that in this pilot the competition between all those cars and the various providers in the neighbourhood is being reduced. I am curious about that because the SP is very opposed to market forces and competition between them. Now, a health insurance provider who is trying to reduce competition and waste in one district, Mrs Siderius is arguing for healthcare providers. I think that is a very special SP position.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-16.u37	We want to take market forces out of all care. That's different from destroying the relationship between patient and aid worker in one neighborhood of rücksichtslos. That's what the PvdA's doing. Market forces are indeed very bad, competition is very bad and profit distribution in healthcare is also very bad. The Labour Party would be wise to review our plan for less market forces and more cooperation in the care recently launched. Then you can see how we can remove market forces from healthcare throughout the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-16.u38	The Labour Party does not destroy anything, but I would nevertheless recommend to Mrs Siderius to go a little further behind her own local directors. They got a good look. They conclude long-term contracts, something the SP has always advocated. By the way, people are not forced to leave their own health insurance provider or their own provider. If you have your own provider, you can keep it. I would also advise Mrs Siderius to study the testing ground, or the pilot project, a little better than just the word'market operation'.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-16.u39	I can reassure Mrs Wolbert: I have certainly looked closely at this pilot. However, the relationship between counsellor and client is indeed being destroyed. Mrs Wolbert says that the Labour Party does not destroy anything, but in recent years it has simply demolished care. There's been 4.5 billion cuts in healthcare. For many elderly people, home care has been abolished. That's really not something to be proud of. My next motion concerns the fine plans published by the Labour Party on its website, including to remove market forces from care. Of course, the SP thinks that this is a fantastic idea and that is why I will table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting the importance of good care for those who need it;]] [[considers that for this purpose it is essential that:]] [[all those in need of community care who receive care in good time;]] [[waiting lists for community care are unacceptable;]] [[neighborhood care must be appropriate;]] [[the way in which health insurers buy should not lead to price competition between providers which is at the expense of the fine and important work that district nurses do day-to-day;]] [[there should continue to be sufficient community care so that no waiting lists are created in the future;]] [[calls on the Government to adopt these principles,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Siderius. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29689-674]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-16.u40	Mr. Chairman. There are two questions that I would like to deal with separately. Mrs Keijzer made a comment about intensive child care. She said that there has been a debate and a number of motions have not been adopted. Let me stress, for my part, that intensive child care is incredibly important and that I agree that there should be good intensive child care. Not just now, but also in the future. For parents with children in need of multiple care, sometimes mentoring and supporting the municipality, sometimes under the Health Insurance Act, sometimes a treatment or long-term care, sometimes it is incredibly complicated to bring that about. I do not think it is the solution to say: something has to be delivered out of different laws, so let's make another change of law and put it into one law. That takes a long time, is not practical and leads to all kinds of system discussions. My plea would be to sit down with the parents concerned and see what bottlenecks they have and what they run into. With the parents we can see which bottlenecks we can solve very practically. So I'm really not in favour of changing laws and choosing another variant for intensive child care. However, as I stressed in the debate, I am very much in favour of having parents sit down and see if we can solve the very practical problems they are experiencing with them as well as possible. They have more to my mind than we're going to change another law here in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-16.u41	Mrs Keijzer, I will give you the floor, but I would ask you not to repeat debates that have already taken place.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-16.u42	I'll hand over some names to the Secretary of State. Maybe that can lead to a quick solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-16.u43	I'm always open to that. By the way, I am in conversation with the parents and Per Recht to soon sit down and list all the problems with each other. Mr Rutte asked if we have any idea how both laws, the Wmo and the Long-Term Care Act, relate to each other and that there should be no improper transfer. At least that's how I understood him. That seems to me to be an important point. I think it is too early to see that now, but as we get more figures on how reality is happening, we can see the trends on the basis of declared data. By the way, we have agreed with the municipalities to periodically review how the budgets are developing, given the need for proper coordination. I very much agree with Mr Rutte that this is a point that we need to keep an eye on each other. Then there's the motions. In the motion in part No. 665 we are asked to provide a whole series of very separate figures by 11 December. This in turn leads to an additional registration burden on the point of which the CDA has also said in various debates to be careful with all kinds of new registration burdens. Let me repeat what debate we have had on the budgets. We have agreed on a mission with all parties. That's not easy. We're gonna see how that develops. There's a duty of care. Healthcare insurers must contract and buy care in such a way that the duty of care is also implemented and people who are entitled to care receive it. At various times we may wonder whether this is going well or not, but this duty of care is beyond question. As time progresses, we get declaration figures. The really reliable figures from which you can see what happened in the year will come sometime around spring. So we can see with each other whether there is enough budget, whether there is too little budget or whether there is a need for a budget. Then we'll have that discussion through the front door. The duty of care requires that health insurers comply with the duty of care. Of course, they must have discussions with the providers about whether it can be more efficient, whether it can be bought in somewhere else, whether there is something or not. That must have its course so that we can look at the budgetary side of things together through the front door. All the figures provided by the Healthcare Institute will also be given to the Chamber. The Vektis numbers are indeed there. Vektis, by the way, indicates that not all the declarations are in there. There are now declarations which do not give any reason to say that things are going wrong. But I was the one who said to questions about those figures: pay attention, these are very provisional figures, I hear all these signals too, so let's look at it quietly when the time comes, namely when we have all the declarations in there. That's why I'm dissuading the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-16.u44	The Secretary of State began by saying that it is complicated to provide that data because it leads to all kinds of administrative burdens and he ends by saying that Vektis already contains a lot of this data. So he can deliver it, but apparently he doesn't want it. That's too bad. I have another question, a question of conscience. When the Secretary of State agreed with the sector to cut 400 million on community nursing, he promised that he would monitor things properly. It's not easy to monitor. In view of the fact that the Secretary of State is not prepared to give those figures, which means that we cannot look at them, I wonder whether he will still keep his word to the health care institutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-16.u45	This may be a misunderstanding. I didn't say we didn't give you any figures at all. The figures we get from the Dutch Health Institute about the declarations are also given to the Chamber. The first two quarters are over, and it just goes on. However, the motion calls for something quite different. The motion concerns received neighbourhood care, the differences per region, the number of hours, the number of hours of palliative care, pgb declarations and uncontracted care. That's what Mrs Keijzer wants. These are really separate categories that are not registered in this way. We must monitor with each other whether sufficient care is recorded and whether the health insurance companies fulfil their duty of care. If they don't, we're gonna have to talk to them about that. In fact, when the question was raised whether there was sufficient contract, if necessary, I went to the table with suppliers and insurers to find out exactly what was going on and to see if further alignment was needed. This has led to the fact that further coordination has indeed taken place. I'm gonna keep doing that. At some point that will be sometime next spring, we will be able to determine with each other whether the budget is enough, whether there is too little money or whether there is money left. I do not yet make any statements about this, simply because I do not have the full picture yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-16.u46	Is the Secretary of State prepared to change his judgment if I withdraw "per region" from the motion? After all, all these other figures are available. There appears to be a difference of about 200 to 300 million between the figures provided by the Zorginstituut Nederland and the figures provided by Vektis. Then you're not monitoring properly, are you?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-16.u47	The figures received by the Zorginstituut Nederland are also based on the Vektis figures. The figures of the Zorginstituut Nederland refer to the first six months of the year; the figures of Vektis are for the first eight months of the year. The Vektis figures didn't include all the declarations you could expect during that period. That is why it has been said: do not base your conclusions on that now. However, we will continue to follow it. For this reason, I stand by my judgment. In the Wolbert motion on part No. 666 calls on the government to ensure that terminal patients can die at home if they so wish and to ensure that no obstacles are encountered when regulating timely terminal home care. We have exchanged this point several times in the debate. It is incredibly important that terminal patients can have a life end the way they wish. We want to do everything we can to ensure that this is done. I see this motion as supporting policy and leave it to the Chamber. In the Wolbert motion on part No. 667 the government is asked to ensure that agreements are made in good time; so let me just say. I think it is good to mention that it is the responsibility of the Dutch Healthcare Authority to ensure that the health insurance companies comply with the obligation of care. I understand the motion as follows. We are not supposed to enter into the tasks of the Dutch Healthcare Authority. We can urge the parties not to wait for it to go wrong, but to talk to each other before then about questions like what they see coming, whether they need to be contracted and whether they need to go to other suppliers. If I may interpret the motion in this way, I shall leave it to the Chamber to decide.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-16.u48	The Secretary of State rightly states that he does not want to enter into the tasks of the Dutch Healthcare Authority. Is it not right for the NZa, from its supervisory role, to ensure that action is taken in good time when there is a risk of cramped treatment in very specific forms of care? May I interpret the Secretary of State's explanation in such a way that he will particularly appeal to the NZa on that role?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-16.u49	Yes, you may, but there might be one more activist approach in it if the parties explicitly wonder if the agreements are going well. For example, in the run-up to the whole number debate, I called on providers and health insurance companies to table because I heard the other signal from the providers and from the insurers and wanted to know from them whether those signals are correct and what is really going on with the agreements that are being made. I think that's kind of my role, too. The motion is asking for that, too. Don't wait until we discuss whether it's going well on the basis of patient stops, but try to do so a little earlier. Simply put, let us not discuss the budget at the moment when there are patient stops. That does not seem right to me, but you are right, of course, that the Healthcare Authority has the formal supervisory task of paying attention to the duty of care.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-16.u50	This has taken over the interpretation of the judgment, at least by the Interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-16.u51	Mr President, I welcome your conclusion, because otherwise I should have asked the Secretary of State where then the Dutch Healthcare Authority was when CZ killed all those terminal patients in the hospital instead of at home. That is why I welcome this explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-16.u52	In the motion in part No. 668 is requested to take the approach of Neighborhood care Netherlands as standard for nursing and care. I also like the performance of Neighborhood care. We have made agreements with all parties with a view to a new funding. Simplicity is indeed a priority. I do not think it would be appropriate for the Chamber to say: we have seen it with one supplier and we are going to do it for everyone. That is precisely why we have agreed with the Chamber on the question of funding. It is true that we want to create a simpler system, with as few products as possible. That's what we're doing right now. We will certainly also use the experiences of Buurtzorg Nederland, which is also closely involved in this. That's why I'm dissuading the motion. In the motion in part No. 669 we are asked to examine whether enough of this specialist care is being purchased and to share the findings with the Chamber before the end of this year. I do not believe that Mrs Bergkamp is trying to impose new registration burdens here again. I advocate a very practical approach, in line with the story I was just trying to keep. Insurers have a duty of care and should therefore ensure that good care is bought in, including the specialist care that is needed. If there are any bottlenecks, I will go there as well and I would like to talk about that. If bottlenecks are reported that there would be insufficient specialist care to be purchased, then either the Healthcare Authority or I can, on my own responsibility to ensure that things are going well, address those bottlenecks and, for example, come up with very practical solutions by looking at what bottlenecks people face. So I'm a little dubbed. I agree with the intention of the motion, but I also do not want to see a separate process of looking at specialist care when we actually share the starting points, I see.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-16.u53	And your judgment is?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-16.u54	If I may interpret the motion in this way, like the motion tabled by Mrs Wolbert, then I would like to leave it to the Chamber, as long as there is no separate process to record which specialist care is being purchased. The same comments apply to this matter as I made to Mrs Keijzer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-16.u55	Indeed, it is certainly not the intention to ensure that more is recorded in relation to what is now being registered, but the NIVEL has carried out a very valuable research into the procurement of case management dementia. That report was published in March. Wouldn't it be possible to ask me what kind of agency to what extent, in general terms, sufficient specialist care has been bought in? I do not need to hear all the figures per region. We are getting sufficient signals that there are concerns about this, not only about case management dementia but also about intensive child care. Perhaps the Secretary of State and D66 can find each other by giving this interpretation. Then maybe we can see if we can move this over at the end of the year.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-16.u56	However, I would like to stress that I choose a very practical approach here, because I want to make one thing clear, namely that health insurers have a duty to care and therefore to ensure that good care is bought in, as well as the necessary specialist care. Then I do not have to find out whether they are doing enough, because then they simply have to do so. Then we can see which bottlenecks there are. Are there any bottlenecks and what are the causes of them? What can we do about it? That's how I read the motion. Then we can check whether enough dementia care has been purchased and what about the development of intensive child care. I have already promised that I would like to discuss further the question of bottlenecks on this point. If I may interpret the motion in that way, I'll leave it to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-16.u57	I have one more question: when can the Secretary of State inform the Chamber about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-16.u58	The motion asks if I can do that before the end of the year. I would like to try, but the point is that if I want to look at the figures, they go through of course. The declaration figures continue in the new year. I hope I have an idea of how things are going before then. So I'd like to try this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-16.u59	Finally. Then the interpretation of the Secretary of State complies with the interpretation of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-16.u60	Then I'll leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-16.u61	So the motion isn't being held or anything? You're leaving her alone, Mrs. Bergkamp? I can see that it is. Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-16.u62	Now I hear the Secretary of State again say that there are figures on specialist care. Then I'd like to have them as usual.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-16.u63	No. The motion asks whether the government can check whether sufficient specialist care is being purchased. This means that the discussions we have with providers, parents and others will allow us to see whether bottlenecks are being experienced. Then we can look at it. As far as I am concerned, this does not lead to new registrations. I also asked Mrs Bergkamp, who confirmed it. However, if bottlenecks are to be identified that we need to address, we must also raise them. I am very willing to inform the Chamber, if that is the case. In the motion-Dik-Faber in part No. 670 In developing the new financing model, the government is invited to ensure that the quality, freedom of choice and availability of contracted neighbourhood care in the night and weekend hours in rural areas are maintained. It seems to me to be an important point for the diversity of care purchases that we buy the care services that are in line with the client's wishes throughout the country. This is also a starting point for me in the development of a new financing model. For that reason, I shall leave the vote on this motion to the Chamber. In the motion-Dik-Faber in part No. 671 is asked the government to run a quick scan among health insurance companies and to let the Chamber know before the law on the implementation of a Health Insurance Act pgb. I have already promised that the information on how health insurers handle the personalised budget is included in the monitor that is included in the Zvw-pgb monitor. It will be implemented early next year and is expected to be in the Chamber on 1 April. I don't think I have much more reliable figures before then. That monitor is now being performed, according to what the motion requires. I am, of course, prepared to discuss this further with the health insurance companies. If I may link it to the monitor I've already agreed to with the Chamber, I'll leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-16.u64	A motion from the Christian Union has really been adopted by this Chamber for months, and perhaps even six months, in which the Secretary of State is asked to give an account of those health insurers. We get so many signals that one is reluctant with the pgb; just map that out. What's it about? This motion is asking again. We actually just need good information before we deal with the bill. As far as I am concerned, that bill is already on the agenda next week, because it is very important, but it is of course very difficult to debate with each other on the basis of all kinds of noises that we hear but which we do not really get the finger on and of which we do not have the figures. I understand what the Secretary of State is saying, but I do need objective information so that I can put all those messages in my mailbox and the conversations I'm having in a frame.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-16.u65	I share that need. I think there's two sides to it. On the one hand, there is the discussion about the personal budget in the Health Insurance Act and the conditions for it. We can talk about that soon if the Chamber so wishes. It's in the room. On the other hand, there is your question: how does it work in practice; what is the application; how is it going; is there restraint or not? We will have to have this discussion with each other on the basis of reliable figures. We are now ten months ahead and only have the figures for the first six months. On the basis of these figures, I cannot yet judge whether there is a great deal of restraint or not. I'm getting those signals, too. That's why I also go round the table with some groups of pgb-holders and holders of intensive child care, to hear what's going on with them. However, we must have this debate on the basis of reliable figures. We agreed to include this in the monitoring. The law can be dealt with as far as I am concerned, because it deals with the principles. If there are practical problems in the application, we will turn to the table. We cannot give an opinion on the question of restraint until we have the whole picture, which is not yet the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-16.u66	In any case, do not let the monitor or any quickscan delay the handling of the bill. We agree on that. Still, I find it uncomfortable to deal with a bill containing in my mailbox all those stories that I find very difficult to describe. I'm assuming they're true. That, of course, affects my view of the whole process of law. How hard is it to do a quick scan among health insurance companies? We are not talking about an extensive monitor and so many health insurers are no longer there because of all the mergers. Don't we have a good idea if there's a day behind it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-16.u67	It's not about that statue. Healthcare insurers are required to carry out the agreements made with Per Balance on the conditions under which the personalised budget is provided. We are going to write these agreements in the law and they have already been made. The question is how things are going in practice. Are the agreements being kept? How are they being polite? Are people happy or not? All these things are going through each other. I think we should do it objectively. We're just gonna have to see what's signed up. Does that prove to be unnecessary restraint or not? This means that we can then appeal to health insurance companies. However, it is very difficult to assume, on the basis of casusism, that the response to pgb-use in general is too cautious. I really want to do that on the basis of the figures.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-16.u68	We're going to the motion in part No. 672.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-16.u69	The motion in part No. 672 is about whether health insurers and healthcare providers can consult each other in good time at the time the budgets are running out. This motion asks us to ask the healthcare authority, in the case of contracting by health insurance companies, to ensure that when assessing the care purchased there is specific attention to the duty of care in vulnerable specialist care. We have just had a debate on the role of the healthcare authority. It must indeed ensure that the duty of care is respected. It must also ensure that this is particularly the case in the case of vulnerable specialist care. For that reason, I would like to leave the vote on the motion to the Chamber. I found the motion in part No. 673 a bit special. We have discussed the question of how we are going to organise district health care in the future. One of the findings during the debate was that it would be good to consider at neighbourhood and neighbourhood level whether a more convenient organisation is needed; a little less market functioning and a little more cooperation, to stay in the terms of the SP. It could be that the basic principles of this experiment lead us to discover this with each other. With more cooperation agreements, for example by a main contractor and subcontractors, can you perhaps achieve a better organisation of care in neighbourhoods and neighbourhoods? I do not have my opinion on this yet, but I think it is important to see if this way you can get more cooperation in the area of health care outside and around the neighborhood. That seems very important to me. That is why I would like to discourage the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-16.u70	We were also talking in the debate about district-based work. The Secretary of State has just indicated that this is exactly what this pilot does, but doesn't this pilot disrupt the neighborhood and the care in the neighborhood? If we break the existing relationships between patients and aid workers and tell clients that they have to take care of a particular care institution and otherwise have bad luck, how do we get these relationships back? I don't think this is a pilot at all. Once we break up those relationships, we'll never get them back.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-16.u71	Well, that depends a little bit on the layout of that experiment. If you're already in treatment, you can finish it if you agree. No contract will be concluded with one healthcare provider, but with a main contractor to ensure cooperation with many more healthcare providers. This could lead to the cooperation that Mrs Siderius also wanted in the neighbourhood and there would be no competition in which one budget would have to compete against another. If that were the outcome of the pilot, it might be very interesting. Let us not say on the front of this study that we should not do all of this, but let us try to achieve a more efficient organisation of community care in this way without affecting the freedom of choice of clients and patients. In the district there is not one provider, but there are several providers, there is more cooperation and if possible there is less waste. That seems to me to be something that Mrs Siderius has always argued.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-16.u72	Now it's all made up. Then how is it that all these subcontractors, all those care institutions in that neighborhood, are against this pilot? They send us letters and say: please don't do it, because this disrupts the care in the neighborhood. How is that possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-16.u73	If you're having a discussion about the organization of the neighborhood nurse care and someone is being appointed to take the lead in these cooperation arrangements, then I can imagine very well that it wouldn't be fun if it weren't you. At the same time, I see that the search for cooperation with different providers is part of that pilot. Let us now give that space to learn from it. By the way, this is also high in the name of D66, I say to Mrs Bergkamp.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-16.u74	Mrs Bergkamp, do you have a question about the motion and voting advice?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-16.u75	It was a little entrapment, too. I am very glad that the Secretary of State says this, because now I can ask him my question. We've had a hearing on community nursing. Even Neighborhood care Netherlands said it was very unwise to think that only one party had been awarded. I have one question for the Secretary of State. This pilot project has completely lost sight of the client. Can the Secretary of State undertake that if the pilot project is not successful, the situation can be completely restored and that we can go back to another situation?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-16.u76	The hallmark of a trial is that you try to learn from it what does and what doesn't work. The first to arrive at that conclusion is the health insurance company that carries out tests with parties. I am following this pilot project with great interest. If the conclusion is that this is not working, I will not hesitate to discuss this with those involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-16.u77	The Secretary of State admits that he is going to follow this pilot project well. I would also ask him to inform the Chamber of the results of this pilot project.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-16.u78	We have regular progress reports. As far as I'm concerned, this will certainly be part of it. I'm getting to the motion on part No. 674. I always appreciate it when a political party puts part of the electoral program of a very warm and connected party, the Labour Party, in a motion and says: do you not agree that these are the starting points? I recognize many of these principles. I think Mrs Siderius took them off the Labour Party's website, but I'm not quite sure. These principles are all wonderful. We have already taken them as a starting point and have already discussed them on a regular basis in shaping the starting points for the new funding. It is nice to read that Mrs Siderius shares these principles now, but they are superfluous. I'm dissuading the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-16.u79	Of course, this is a bit of jokes and jokes, but it is very sad, because these are not the principles of government policy. If that had been the case, perhaps the coalition partner would have run away very hard already. Price competition still exists in healthcare, there are waiting lists for community care and we are dealing with patient stops. It would be nice if the Secretary of State really worked on all these principles rather than making a little jokes and jokes here, because this issue is far too serious as far as I and my party are concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-16.u80	Just for the record, I don't make jokes and jokes at all. I would like to take a separate look at the considerations. "That everyone who needs community care also gets that care in time." That is now part of the Health Insurance Act. It lays down the legal right to community care. "That waiting lists for the neighborhood care are unacceptable." The whole debate is about questions like: is there enough care to be bought in and how are we going to determine whether the budgets are sufficient or whether they need to be adjusted? We have had a whole debate on this. "The neighborhood care must be that fits." We are giving the neighbourhood nurse the instrument to dictate themselves, so that it does not happen far from paper. "That the way in which health insurers buy should not lead to price competition between providers at the expense of the beautiful and important work that district nurses do day after day." We are working on a directive on nursing and care, which can also be a basis for the procurement by health insurance companies. "That there should continue to be sufficient care in the neighbourhood, so that no waiting lists are created in the future." That's exactly why it's just in the Health Insurance Act, which entitles everyone to community care. So I'm not kidding. I'm serious. We're gonna take care of this neighborhood. We are now taking a number of important steps in this direction. It is not good to include that in motions that are unnecessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-16.u81	You would at least expect the Secretary of State to leave this motion to the Chamber, but apparently he's still a little too afraid of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-16.u82	No, because I have made point by point that these are exactly the starting points of the policy we are implementing. The motion is not even superfluous, but it is still a little late, because we have already laid down these principles in several places.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-16.u83	Mr President, I have one more question, because I am struggling with it. The second final point is that there should be no price competition. Nevertheless, we read that BrabantZorg has decided not to sign a contract with health insurance companies DSW and Menzis because the rates now go to 88% of the NZa rate. How are you supposed to explain that? Then something goes wrong in the basics that the Secretary of State now says are part of his policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-16.u84	No, I don't think so, because we have just asked health insurance companies to buy in care, not only to ensure that the care is of a high quality but also that the price is reasonable, to keep the neighborhood care affordable. These are negotiating processes, in which both sides must say whether they find acceptable conditions. This could lead one supplier to say not to do it for that price and the other says to do so. These are prices that take place within the area of the Dutch Healthcare Authority and that account should be taken of the collective agreements that have been concluded in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-16.u85	Mrs Keijzer's last point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-16.u86	Last point: the Dutch Healthcare Authority has a maximum rate but no minimum rate. If at some point you reach 88%, as a healthcare provider in this market, where it's so complicated to stay up, it doesn't tell you to buy in because you don't get it anymore, then you're in the middle of price competition.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-16.u87	But then we will not only have to look at it by healthcare provider. Then we will have to consider whether neighborhood care can be provided on reasonable terms by the healthcare offer. This may be different from that of one healthcare provider, because one healthcare provider has more or less overhead. There may be other considerations. We can't go in there with each other. That is precisely what happens in the Health Insurance Act: healthcare providers and insurers negotiate the price with each other. The verdict on the motion is therefore: dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-16.u88	I thank the Secretary of State for the answers given.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-16.u89	I propose that we vote next Tuesday on the ten motions tabled.
