ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-15-tweedekamer-3.u1	In particular, I would like to welcome the Minister of Finance. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-15-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. After a difficult period, in which the Netherlands came out of the valley slower than our neighbouring countries, the Dutch economy is now growing harder than expected. The Central Planning Bureau predicts 2% growth for this year and 2.4% for next year. In doing so, the Netherlands has escaped the crisis. The economic recovery has also widened. The recovery was first visible in exports, growing investment was added last year and consumer spending is now also increasing. This year, for the first time in five years, Dutch people can spend more. Household purchasing power is increasing this year and next year. That creates renewed trust. For the first time since time, Dutch people are looking more often for "wage increases" than for "resignment allowances." This is also evident in the housing market, where a catch-up has begun. The number of people with a mortgage that's underwater is decreasing. The broad recovery is also good for public finances. Economic growth is increasing tax revenues and the government deficit is falling sharply. This year it is 2.2% of GDP and next it falls to 1.5% of GDP. In 2009, that deficit was still 5.4%. The government debt expressed as a percentage of our gross domestic product is falling for the first time after the steep increase since the beginning of the crisis. The counter will be at 66.2% by the end of next year. In addition, the Netherlands has a positive sustainability balance. That's good news for the future. The improved budget figures also allow for additional investment in some societal priorities, for example at the interface between work and care. For all toddlers care is made possible and maternity leave for partners goes from two to five days. The quality of life in our nursing homes continues to demand attention. We are making an additional EUR 210 million structuralally available in order to give better care and more attention to residents. An additional 60 million will be made available for international missions. Finally, I would like to mention that the cabinet invests in our armed forces. This amounts to EUR 345 million. In addition to funding for these societal priorities, the government has allocated 470 million for 2015 to enable a wage agreement in the public sector, after years of standstill. This amount amounts to 1.3 billion a year. Furthermore, unforeseen changes of course were required. For example, the gas benefits went back much faster and stronger than expected. Compared to the 2012 estimates, gas benefits have now been halved. This will save EUR 5 billion in the budget next year. One half of this amount is due to price cuts and the other half is necessary to increase safety in Groningen. Furthermore, we have freed up funds to receive refugees. For the current year EUR 650 million has been made more available for asylum reception. Additional money has also been allocated for the coming years. We also see a positive economic picture for the euro area. Greece is clearly an exception and will have to do a lot of work to get out of that position. However, the other countries in the euro area, our main trading partners, show a lot of light. This is particularly true of those euro area countries which have radically reformed their economies in recent years. Spain, Ireland and the Baltic States are growing rapidly. This also applies to the Netherlands. It's better than expected. The Dutch people have made a great effort in recent years, which has made structural improvements to our economy and budget. It is also due to favourable circumstances. I call the price of oil and interest. Furthermore, the euro is low. These favourable external factors, of course, also carry a risk. The United States is showing excellent growth rates, but it is unclear what effect the expected increase in US interest rates will have. The Chinese economy, the world's second economy, is cooling down. This is not good news for the Netherlands, the sixth exporting country in the world. The unstable geopolitical situations in Ukraine, parts of Africa and the Middle East are not good news for the Netherlands either. It's better than expected, but not good enough. That is why we are releasing EUR 5 billion in next year's budget for reducing the tax burden on labour. Unemployment is still too high and falling too slowly. There's too many people left at home. Low-income workers are struggling to make ends meet. The cost reduction of around 5 billion will increase spending space in the short term. This leads to more production and more demand for workers. This is a welcome boost for employment, but the structural impact we are aiming for is a greater growth potential for the Dutch economy. We cannot be satisfied with an expected average growth rate of 1.5% a year. Targeted reduction of taxation on labour will lead to a better functioning labour market, a higher employment rate and thus simply to more people at work. The 5 billion package contains a substantial increase in the labour cut, a reduction in the rate in the second and third discs, an incentive for employers who accept people in lower pay scales and an increase in the childcare allowance. These are always measures with a lasting effect. In addition, the government fixes purchasing power with some specific measures for 2016, so that all groups benefit from the improving economy. The major tax reform has not been achieved. Unfortunately, there is not enough support for this in both Chambers at the moment. However, that is no reason to sit still. In addition to the targeted reduction of charges, the cabinet presents specific reforms of capital taxes, car taxes, tax innovation schemes and childcare allowances. Many reforms have been launched in recent years, including in the housing market, in health care and in the financial sector. These reforms were needed to strengthen society and the economy. The cabinet has made the plans, the Chamber has given its approval and the result is laid down in laws. But that has only triggered a process of change. We are now in the crucial phase of implementation. Careful implementation is needed to achieve this goal: a society built on a vital economy with plenty of attention and opportunities for people. These reforms were needed due to delayed maintenance. As a result, the measures taken in recent years have been firmer, firmer than necessary in the event of timely intervention. In the absence of timely intervention, the crisis in the Netherlands has even aggravated. The cabinet wants to prevent the maintenance from piling up again in the future. We will therefore have to continue to adapt to continuous change. By adjusting on time, less abrupt and profound changes are needed. That is a lesson we must learn together. There used to be cartographers who drew monsters on the map at the edge of the known world or "hic sunt dracones" here are the dragons wrote on the empty spots on the map. Luckily, explorers didn't care much about that. They sailed with their ships so into the area of the dragons and found new worlds there. I had to think about this when I spoke to Mom Wellenstein a few weeks ago. This 95-year-old Dutch resistance hero became a diplomat after the war and with his generation was at the cradle of European cooperation. He led, among other things, the European Coal and Steel Community. I spoke with Wellenstein about the history of European cooperation, about how groundbreaking the idea of cooperation was between countries that were at war with each other until recently. At that moment, I realized I was facing an explorer. The life and work of Wellenstein shows that you can also draw a new map on an ancient continent and that there is always more space if you dare to sail past the dragons. Madam President. I am pleased to offer you the 2016 Millions Note and the accompanying documents. Allow me to put on gloves before I remove the Millions note from the briefcase. This is the very first briefcase, the briefcase of Minister Piet Lieftinck. He had it purchased in 1946 by an official for 3.75 guilders, converted to the prices of now about €15, so still cheap. He consciously created a beautiful, new tradition.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-15-tweedekamer-3.u3	Thank you, Minister, for your words and for offering the state budget in this particular way.
