ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-01-tweedekamer-14.u1	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the cabinet has limited the time spent on lighting firework;]] [[Whereas the major cities have advocated the further reduction of cutting-off times from 23:00 p.m. to 1:00 p.m. to reduce the damage and nuisance caused by fireworks;]] [[Whereas, even after 18.00 hours, a large number of people still have to be able to safely go outside and further limit the time of cutting;]] [[calls on the government to further limit the time spent off,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28684-447]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-01-tweedekamer-14.u2	The next motion is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that several municipalities have asked the government to give them more opportunities to tackle fireworks nuisance;]] [[noting that a ban on fireworks and open fire has also led to a significant reduction in violence against police and aid workers;]] [[calls on the Government to give municipalities the power to impose a municipal fireworks ban, whether or not with the exception of specific cutting-off sites, or at least to start pilots to do so,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ouwehand, Mr Van Tongeren and Mr Klein. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28684-448]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-01-tweedekamer-14.u3	The next motion is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, at the turn of the year, in the Netherlands, hundreds of victims are killed each year by setting off consumer fireworks;]] [[Whereas half of the fireworks victims are bystanders or passers-by and half of the injuries are caused by legal fireworks;]] [[noting that, while the cabinet has tightened the rules on consumer fireworks, doctors, mayors and firefighters point out that further measures are necessary with the ultimate aim of banning consumer fireworks;]] [[calls on the Government to work towards a ban on consumer fireworks by 2020 at the latest,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28684-449]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-01-tweedekamer-14.u4	The final motion is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is no clear picture of the annual costs incurred at the turn of the year in relation to nuisance, damage, environmental pollution, violence against workers, health care costs and disability due to permanent injury;]] [[calls on the Government to identify and inform the Chamber of all costs relating to fireworks, including in the long term,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28684-450]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-01-tweedekamer-14.u5	Mr. Chairman. In June we had a good exchange of views with the Secretary of State and the Minister. The CDA is pleased that the Minister has responded to the request to talk to the National Police about the idea of having a one-off fundraiser for heavy illegal fireworks. When is the Minister going to do that? He's known as decisive, so I'm assuming this will be beeped for the next year. I'd like to get a reaction to this. The CDA believes that the fireworks tradition should be maintained, but victims should be prevented as much as possible by removing certain high-risk products from the market. The CDA Group therefore considers it only logical that the Secretary of State for Infrastructure and the Environment should examine the types of legal fireworks that are suitable for abuse where there is a risk of misuse leading to physical suffering. This was a suggestion of the Foundation Conservation Fireworks tradition. I therefore believe that it is a suggestion from the right angle that needs to be embraced. In the past it has been decided to remove baby arrows and Roman candles from the market. The CDA Group is happy to hear from the Secretary of State how it handles this, because it is in fact constantly developing. Every year there are new products. Will we continue to investigate such undesirable products? The CDA Group would also like to know how the cabinet will continue to try to promote the amendment of the Pyro Directive at European level. Fortunately, the Minister for Security and Justice is going to carry out an evaluation of the application of superfast law, also because part of the Chamber has questions about the diligence of the sessions. The CDA Group specifically asks the Minister not only to look closely at what the criminal justice chain partners think about it, but also to look at what other parties involved in the super-speed trial think about it, such as the victims, the victims and the victims and the aid workers. Are they sufficiently covered in the evaluation? How do they judge the super-high-speed court hearings? We must prevent a one-sided view of the legal profession being put forward immediately. We just want to know the broad palette. In the AO of 3 July 2014, therefore, more than a year ago, the former Minister of Security and Justice said that he would check to what extent the mayors use preventive detention in former and newcomers. That didn't happen in 2015. We also asked questions about this in the AA. At that time, it was not entirely clear what was going on there. My policy officer has been in close contact with the Ministry and now it is clear. I would like to receive confirmation from the Minister that this aspect will be taken into account in the next report on the turn of the year.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-01-tweedekamer-14.u6	Mr. Chairman. The fireworks tradition is deeply rooted in Dutch society and according to the VVD is just old and new. The VVD wants to maintain this beautiful tradition. However, the VVD also regrets any fireworks victim and is open to measures that can contribute to less injury. The measures taken should therefore contribute effectively to reducing injury. In that context, I would like to make a number of comments. Because 39% of the fireworks damage is caused by illegal fireworks, I have already asked in the AO to work hard on the European approach to illegal fireworks. Many victims can be spared suffering. I asked the Secretary of State if she would like to work on clarifying the European Pyro-Directive. It turns out that fireworks products such as cobras are not used by professionals at all and therefore end up on the illegal market and cause victims. This has to stop. Can the Secretary of State undertake to take action? The VVD is afraid of the salami tactics, for increasingly restrictive measures that ultimately result in a total ban on fireworks. That's what the VVD wants to watch out for, because she doesn't want a total ban on fireworks. The cabinet decided just before the AO to ban the Roman candle alongside the baby arrow. It is good that, at the request of the VVD, the Secretary of State has entered into consultation with the industry in order to establish a transitional procedure for banning the Roman candle. First of all, the VVD wants to see whether the number of victims is actually falling as a result of the ban on these two products. The products meet all legal requirements, but are dangerous due to improper use. There's no law against that. To avoid a sliding scale, I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Secretary of State for Infrastructure and the Environment has prohibited the sale of baby darts and Roman candles to consumers;]] [[Whereas the reason for this prohibition is not that baby arrows and Roman candles do not meet the legal requirements for fireworks, but that improper use of these fireworks in practice causes many injuries;]] [[Whereas it is not known whether the injury caused by fireworks will be reduced by banning these two products;]] [[calls on the Government, after the next year's change, to find out whether the decision to ban baby arrows and roman candles has actually led to less injury and until then not to ban more types of fireworks,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Tellegen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28684-451]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-01-tweedekamer-14.u7	Mr. Chairman. A great deal has been said before the summer about the new year and all the problems we have encountered. I am standing here because the SP still has one question on which it would like clarification from the rulers. During the hearing, some municipalities indicated that they could impose a land ban, but that there are quite a few restrictions and that they may need national measures. In the debate with these directors, it was said that municipalities already have sufficient resources to take the necessary measures. I would like the rulers to go into this one more time. Do the municipalities indeed have enough in their hands to impose a ban on fireworks? Are they prepared to evaluate this well with the municipalities that want to use it again at the next turn of the year, to see where there are bottlenecks, so that we can assess them properly next time? Finally, I agree with the concerns expressed by the CDA Group about super-fast duty. I agree with the questions put by Mr Oskam.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-01-tweedekamer-14.u8	This has put an end to the first term of office. The directors request to suspend for five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-01-tweedekamer-14.u9	I give the floor to the Secretary of State for Infrastructure and the Environment to respond to the motions tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-01-tweedekamer-14.u10	Mr. Chairman. I deal with a number of motions and the questions and Mr Van der Steur will also deal with a number of motions. I'll start with the motion in part No. 447, in which the government is asked to further limit the time spent off. Due to the increasing call from society and some large municipalities, last year the rules around the cutting times were adapted. The measure has resulted in significantly less nuisance during the last year. I've already indicated in advance that we're looking at how that's gonna work out. I do not think there is any reason to take additional measures at this stage, such as the further reduction of cutting-off times. The attention to the festive anniversary of course remains necessary. The turn of the year will therefore be reviewed again and additional measures will be considered. I'm deceiving the motion in part No. 447. Then I'm gonna jump to the motion at piece number one. 449. The Animal Party, Mrs Ouwehand, asks the government to work towards a ban on consumer fireworks by 2020. For many years I have been arguing that there is a long tradition in the Netherlands to put off old and new fireworks. A lot of people are looking forward to it, too. The cabinet attaches importance to maintaining a tradition and considers that a general ban in this sense is not at issue. To reduce the nuisance of fireworks, we have decided to adjust the exposure time. Last year it wasn't allowed until 6:00. So instead of 10:00 in the morning, it's 6:00 in the evening. The adjusted cutting time has contributed to a year change that has gone quieter than previous years. We also consider whether it is possible to remove different types of fireworks that cause a lot of injury from the market. In this context, I would like to return to the question raised by, among other things, the VVD Group. There is now insufficient justification for a general ban. I therefore also advise against the motion. That was the motion in part No. 449. I shall now proceed to the motion on part number one. 450, in which the Animal Party, Mrs Ouwehand, asks the government to map out all costs associated with fireworks, including those in the long term, and to inform the Chamber. I understand the question, but it seems extremely complicated to me to make that breakdown. The recital suggests that all the costs of the nuisance at the turn of the year are due to fireworks. Of course it isn't. You have all kinds of other causes. For example, excessive drinking and vandalism in general also cause the necessary damage. I think it would be very difficult to identify a cause for any kind of damage. The Ministry of Security and Justice already reports annually on the turn of the year, including on injury damage. I don't think this motion is wise, and that's why I'm dissuading the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-01-tweedekamer-14.u11	In itself, the Secretary of State has a point. It is not just about the presence of fireworks. Let me look at that part of the wording of the operative part. We have a lot of numbers. We know what the damage is from the turn of the year. The only thing that really misses is the long-term costs. I am thinking, for example, of a 14-year-old boy who has lost his eye or is unable to work with both hands for a lifetime. So I do need information on long-term costs. Can the Secretary of State undertake to consider, in consultation with the Minister of VWS, whether this can be mapped out? Insurers' figures on actual damage, for example vandalism, are fairly complete, but there is still something very important missing for long-term costs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-01-tweedekamer-14.u12	I think it's extremely complicated to think about the long-term costs for someone who suffered permanent physical damage at the age of 14. That depends, of course, on how a person develops and what career he pursues. A lot can happen in a life. A physical limitation does not have to be a cost. This may also be a reason for choices. The example already shows how complicated it is. I think it's impossible to track people individually and determine what the future damage is based on individual injury. Then I come to the motion on part No. 451, of the VVD Group. The investigation's already been promised. I therefore consider the motion to support policy. Two more questions have been asked to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-01-tweedekamer-14.u13	Mr Oskam has a question on the motion for a resolution on item No. 451.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-01-tweedekamer-14.u14	Yes, I am asking whether the motion is feasible. We're gonna have that investigation. The VVD asks that until 1 January, or much later, no more types of fireworks should be banned. If there is a new product on the market that does not meet the requirements, then you should be able to intervene. Then you should be able to ban it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-01-tweedekamer-14.u15	During the AO I exchanged with the VVD group that I would not necessarily review every year whether there is a new product. Of course, at the moment when there is a completely new product on the market that is right and also demonstrably having effects, I will intervene and see if I can do the same thing as I have done with the Roman candles, for example. The principle of the investigation is that we look at the effects. During the AO I promised that I will not automatically look at the following product the following year. But if very new, strange situations were to arise, I will of course return to the Chamber very soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-01-tweedekamer-14.u16	Of course, I'm very happy about that. I think it is a nice motion, but if I read the motion correctly, it is a question of whether it is really feasible, because by doing so you assume that nothing can be prohibited. I don't think that's the idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-01-tweedekamer-14.u17	I think it says "until then." In the debate during the AO, it has been emphasised that it is not an automatic search for new products, but that the evaluation will be carried out first. That's how I read the motion. This is a VAO, a continued AO, and that's how I interpreted the motion. So I see her as a support for policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-01-tweedekamer-14.u18	Maybe it's a good idea to stick to that. It is the VVD's explicit intention that the Secretary of State now prohibits two products which, while meeting the criteria, are therefore simply legal products which cause unnecessary injury due to improper use. With this motion, I would like to know from the Secretary of State whether the intended objective, namely less injury, is being achieved. After the next turn of the year, I would first like to know from the Secretary of State whether this is actually the case. Until then, I don't want to get any new bans on products from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-01-tweedekamer-14.u19	I said yes to that. They're looking into that right now. I have also said, and I am going to repeat it again, that I do not intend to ban new products from the list on which an overview of the injury was made. If there is anything new on the market that would prove to be extremely damaging, just as I find that of the Roman candles, I will return to the Chamber. But I can just comply with this motion right now, and I'm going to. Mr Oskam asked a question about research into new products. The effects of the current restriction are awaited. There's gonna be an evaluation. Of course, we monitor the products that may come on the market. So the baby arrows and the Roman candles came into view. That's actually a continuous process. In that sense, the answer is yes. Two groups have asked for the Pyro Directive. For years we have been calling for an approach at EU level. On a proposal from the Netherlands, the EU will investigate the progress of the sale of professional fireworks, to show that these fireworks often come in the hands of private individuals and to convince EU Member States of additional measures. We are doing this very actively from the Netherlands, because we realise that we are really ahead in Europe in this area. The knowledge we gain from our experiences is also taken very seriously by Member States. You can rely on us to hold meetings each time and show what the effects of some actions are. Member States understand that as well and are prepared to take action as soon as you show it. We are always in consultation with other Member States and, as far as I am concerned, I will continue to support the strengthening of the Pyro-Directive. But you must realise that we have had conditions that lead us in this area. That means sometimes you have to keep a tooth in order for other countries to recover. But it's my goal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-01-tweedekamer-14.u20	I give the floor to the Minister of Security and Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-01-tweedekamer-14.u21	Mr. Chairman. First of all, let me thank the Members of your Chamber and the Registry, whom I congratulate and congratulate on the new Registrar, for having the opportunity to speak briefly on the first day after the recess, because in the weeks when I did not have the opportunity to do so, I began to have some withdrawal symptoms. I'm glad they're over now. Mr Oskam asked about the reports I promised to the Chamber regarding his suggestion on the collection of illegal fireworks. I can inform him that a letter will be sent to the Chamber at the end of this month. At the moment, the report on the consultation, in particular the Public Prosecutor's Office, is being finalised. So I will send that information to the Chamber at the end of this month. Mr Oskam asked whether the evaluation sent following the turn of the year would report on the handling of preventive detention. The answer to that question is yes. That evaluation will take into account that possibility of preventive detention. As a reminder to those who are following this debate, these are decisions that the mayor can take to ensure that certain wheeldrivers cannot participate in the festivities and therefore not in any riots and other disorderly activities. This is indeed taken into account in the evaluation. Then Mr Oskam asked for the evaluation of super-fast law. We have discussed this in general consultation. I also said at the time that we will draw up a proper evaluation of this, together with all the parties involved. Mr Oskam's specific question is now: are all the parties involved involved involved? The answer to that is yes. Involved are the police, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the incumbent magistrate. Given the time between the question and the answer, I could not find out whether victim groups and care are involved. I'll take a closer look at that. In any case, the purpose of the evaluation is that it concerns the question: does it have super-fast rights with old and new function and meaning? Answer will also be given and that answer will be sent to the Chamber in early 2016.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-01-tweedekamer-14.u22	It was, of course, a question of whether all the parties involved were also involved in the evaluation. I do not want it to be just about the professional partners, but also about the people who really care about it, who go to court with their appeal and who may not be granted a claim for damages. That is the kind of point we all want to take, so that the evaluation really goes wide.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-01-tweedekamer-14.u23	That seems to me to speak for itself. I will check it again, and I think that, also because Mr Oskam is asking that question, this has been adequately addressed. Mrs Kooiman's question actually went a bit in the direction of Mrs Ouwehand's motion. I therefore deal first with this motion, the motion in part No. 448. This motion calls on the government to give municipalities the power to impose a municipal fireworks ban. We held a wide-ranging exchange of views on this during the general discussion. This motion is technically not feasible for the simple reason that it is impossible as a state government to give powers to then ban something that is legal. This is not how the laws and regulations work in the Netherlands. That is why this is impossible. We cannot grant this power to municipalities, nor will we grant it to municipalities. For reasons of non-executability, I must therefore discourage the motion. Mrs Kooiman asked for an extension to the fireworks-free zones. Unlike Mrs Ouwehand's motion, it is true that municipalities can set firework-free zones if they meet a number of requirements. In this respect, there is still a case under the courts, the well-known case of the municipality of Hilversum. So that case hasn't been decided yet. It will also depend on the conditions under which it should take place. One thing is certain and that is that this aspect will be taken into account in the review of the year-end 2015-2016.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-01-tweedekamer-14.u24	The vote on the motions tabled will take place next Tuesday. Since this evening's debate has been removed from the agenda, I shall now close the sitting.
