ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u1	Mr. Chairman. It's been a while since we talked about early school leaving. In this debate, we discussed, among other things, the high school drop-out in entrance training, which is MBO level 1. My group is tabling two motions for resolutions on this matter. The first is about a licence for practical education to also offer entrance courses. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the school drop-out in entrance training (MBO level 1) is alarmingly high;]] [[noting that pupils who have successfully completed practical education and have not yet been able to find a place on the labour market benefit from guidance in entry training in a small-scale setting;]] [[noting that the Education Council has recommended that practical education be given the opportunity to obtain a licence for entry training;]] [[Considers that practical education is ideally suited to providing quality guidance in a small-scale environment as opposed to the large regional training centres;]] [[calls on the Government to allow schools for practical education to apply for and obtain a licence to provide entrance training (for the labour market exit profile),]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Siderius. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-26695-104]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u2	I'll move on to the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that pupils in practical education are exempt from the requirement of qualification;]] [[noting that pupils are no longer required to learn in practical education from the age of 16 and are therefore at risk of falling out of the picture at a young age without having successfully completed training or without having obtained a place on the labour market;]] [[noting that these pupils benefit from individual guidance at school, on the labour market or at home even after their 16th year;]] [[calls on the Government, for pupils in practical education, to raise the age of compulsory education to 18 years, so that individual guidance at school, at home or on the labour market is guaranteed;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Siderius. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-26695-105]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u3	Mr Van Meenen gave up the floor, which put an end to the term of office. The Minister and the Secretary of State have to wait for the motions, so I'm suspending the meeting for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u4	Mr. Chairman. I will deal with Mrs Siderius' first motion and the Secretary of State will deal with the second motion. In the motion in part No. 104 the government is invited to allow practical schools to apply for and obtain a licence to provide entrance training for the labour market exit profile. I do not recommend this motion, although I agree with Mrs Siderius that it is important that students from practical education who are going to receive entrance training should be connected to it as closely as possible. I believe that for-schools and MBO schools should work together, but their entry and certification are ultimately a responsibility of the MBO. I would like to encourage much and much better cooperation between vocational schools and MBO schools on the basis of their own responsibility. The Secretary of State and I are in this together, by the way, with the MBO Council and the VO Council. This point deserves particular attention. We know that 20% of students with pro-training will eventually receive entrance training, whereas this is not actually expected. That is a positive result, which also shows that many things are going well. However, I fear that we will then shift a problem, because what will you do with MBO-2? It's actually similar to the associate degree. The final responsibility for the examination lies with the HBO, but this can be practically very well organized together with the MBO. I believe that this will produce more results than an institutional shift with new problems, so I would advise against the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u5	Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. 105 is about increasing the compulsory education of pupils in practical education to 18 years. I'm dissuading the motion. It depends very much on the student you're doing wisely. Students are already allowed to stay in practical education up to 18 years of age, but for a lot of pupils it is much better if they also benefit from being able to enter the labour market earlier. In my view, it would be very difficult for these children to remain in practical education until the age of 18, especially in the direction of employment, where practical education is so terribly good. In other words, it's allowed, but it shouldn't. That is the thrust of this motion, and that is why I do not recommend it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u6	This is an explicit wish of the practice schools. It's mostly about guidance. In fact, at 16, students can now say, "Bye, I'm gonna sit home." With this motion we want to ensure that guidance remains possible. I understand that the Secretary of State says that we should not increase the age of compulsory education. I would like to know what we could do to make this assistance possible at least until the age of 18, so that these young people do not get out of the picture.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u7	That guidance is already possible and is already being given. In addition, if a student is in a good place at any time, the employer has a responsibility. So I do not see why we should commit this assistance to 18 years, because we see that it is going well at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u8	Mr Van Meenen also has a question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u9	I expected Mrs Siderius to interrupt the Minister, but she seems to be having some trouble with her voice, so perhaps that's why she didn't do it. Could I ask the Minister another question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u10	I look at the minister and I see he's fine with it. And we have time, so it's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u11	This is the first motion by Mrs Siderius, the motion in part No. 104, in which the Government is asked to enable it to obtain a licence for the provision of entrance training for practical schools. The Minister has not convinced me that this would not be possible. I think we should reason on the best interests of the students. That is also explicitly stated in the motion. Those students could be better off in a smaller environment. I refer in this connection to the debate we held last week on the ROC Leiden. I therefore ask the Minister what is against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u12	There is not much against the fact that pupils in practical education attend their entrance training for an important part in the school of practical education. However, we are opposed to the transfer of examinations and diplomas. In the debates we are having here on education, it is often stressed that diplomas should never be called into question and that the examination is important. We must therefore invest this responsibility well; we must not use it lightly. I am in favour of greater cooperation and education at the practical schools, but the examination should remain with the MBO, also in view of the whole of the responsibilities we have invested in education. There is no doubt in my mind that VET and MBO should cooperate more closely in the field of practical education and entrance training, but also in a more general sense. However, I would prefer not to do so by means of a system change. I'm more in favour of practical solutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u13	I cannot speak on behalf of Mrs Siderius, but I do not think that she would be prepared to change the system. She just wants a practical solution. My question is: 'But now I am filling in a bit of what Mrs Siderius has in mind 'whether we can make it part of the licence that the examination takes place in consultation with, or under the responsibility of, the MBO.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u14	The question is what this adds. We can already say that entry training can simply take place in practical education. However, I would like to leave the licence for the examination with the MBO. I think it's only about taking care of entrance training in the motion. If it is really only about that in the motion, I have no objection to it, but in that case there is no need for a licence. If the motion is reworded in such a way that it calls for the education itself to be provided in practical education, but for the examination to be left with the MBO institution, then I would have no objection to the motion. This could be an additional tool in ensuring that the cooperation between vo and mbo takes place properly. However, I set a limit when examining.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u15	The problem is that schools that want cooperation between practical education and MBO, but that school boards or partnerships sometimes go for that. Let me give you an example of a case that occurred in the Nijmegen region. There was more or less everything in it, until the board said: we are not going to do that. Then you should have some kind of means to which schools can rely and through which they can say: the legislator indicates that this is highly desirable. That's what I'm trying to do. I would like to think about whether I can change her a little bit, so that this examination might still fall under the responsibility of the MBO.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u16	Then we'd get a long way together. In the example of Mrs Siderius in which it does not work, I think that we should get on with that. Then we must say to the driver: why is it not possible here; what is the reason for this? If there is a practical limitation, we can look together to see whether a solution is possible or whether they can find it themselves. If all they care about is who has the biggest share in the school, then we need to do something, but you can't solve that just with a formality either. So I'm willing to go where there are problems and find a solution with the schools.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u17	I repeat once again that if the motion for a resolution is amended in line with the way in which the Minister has just discussed it, it will be given a 'judgement chamber'.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-5.u18	We shall vote next week on the motions tabled.
