ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-5.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister of Finance once again, as well as the Members of Parliament who are dealing with this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. At my request, approval of the agreement on the mutualisation of the resolution fund has been called into question. The Single Resolution Fund is one of the elements of the Banking Union that we do not like. We do not agree that we need to save each other's banks in Europe. It is not for nothing that I tabled a motion at the end of 2013 with Mr Harbers and Mr Van Hijum. The main point was that a system of nationally defined funds would be developed. In addition, we voted against a new backup from the ESM, the public backstop, and for the guarantee of the information position of the Dutch parliament and the accountability to parliament. That motion has been passed. However, I note that on all three points, the Chamber has been given zero on the record. Does the Minister recognize this? To help him, I'll walk by the points. Instead of the national funds, there were national compartments. They should be merged into a single European settlement fund over the course of eight years. At the new backstop, the public backstop, the Chamber also draws the short straw. Indeed, a statement by the Ecofin Group stated that a common European public back-up was being developed during the transitional period. How's that working out for you? In the written answers, the Minister writes that he cannot rule out that the government will eventually have to intervene with tax money in saving banks. He added that for the scenarios where bail-in and the possibilities of the Single Resolution Fund were exhausted, the ministers of the Eurogroup and Ecofin also agreed, when reaching the Council agreement on the Single Resolution Mechanism, that they would work on a system whereby bridge financing could ultimately be provided to the Single Resolution Fund. This system should be operational when the Single Resolution Fund enters into force, i.e. in January 2016. Furthermore, the Minister writes: no decisions have yet been taken on this issue. How is it that there is still no clarity about that? Can the Minister give that clarity now? Bridge funding will be provided from either national funds or the ESM. The Netherlands insists that this funding will come from national resources. Where are the other countries in this? When will a decision be taken? The written round also raised the question of whether the contributions should be paid in cash by the banks. The Minister replied that pre-paid contributions to the settlement fund could also be provided by so-called "unrevocable payment commitments." Why is that? That sounds a bit like IOUs. Can the Minister explain why that possibility was created? Finally, I come to the information position of the Chamber and the accountability to the Chamber. According to the current framework of the Banking Union, both cases are not guaranteed at all. We also discussed this last week, during the AA on the banking union. As a result of the Single Resolution Mechanism, there is no longer any prior involvement of the national parliament in the decision-making process of a large Dutch bank. This also means that the Chamber will not be informed in advance. If a large bank gets into trouble in the future, the Chamber can only stand by and watch. In fact, we can only read in the newspaper what is happening to our banks and who is going to pay for this. I sometimes wonder whether this has been sufficiently understood by the general public. The question is also what powers the European Court of Auditors has. We will be informed about the ECB's powers before the summer. That was confirmed last week. I also refer to the motion adopted by myself and Mr Omtzigt. As far as I understand it, the European Court of Auditors can examine all the revenue and expenditure accounts of the Single Resolution Board. I'm interested in the following. Can we check how the Single Resolution Board reached its decision on the resolution of the banks? To what extent do we have access to it afterwards?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-5.u3	I have 15 minutes to speak. That's a promise! I'll talk quietly. Mr. Chairman. Why are we even standing here today? Why is this deal not actually a hammer piece, I wondered when I read the pieces. As usual when it comes to the European Union, Parliament is out of play. The approval has already been given and now the national parliaments are allowed to pee on it, for the sake of democracy. Because we cannot vote against it, we cannot amend it, and there is no point in making motions. In fact, as usual in the European Union, we are allowed to sign on the cross. What would happen if the Dutch Parliament did not agree to this law? Even the Council of State had no comments. It is not often that the Council of State simply does not have any comment. But why would the Council of State? As if the minister could adapt anything to this law. It would be a waste of time and effort the Council of State would devote to it. The Council of State may also sign on the cross. They didn't even think it was necessary to make the advice public. Can we still get that advice from the Council of State? Maybe there's something useful in there after all. This is another step towards a federal Europe where all imbalances are smoothed out and all problems and misery are collectiveised. We keep swimming further and further into the trap. Step by step, our sovereignty is transferred and billions are transferred from North to South, from rich to poor, from strong to weak. With this resolution mechanism, we will have nothing more to say about the settlement and rescue of ABN AMRO or a SNS REAAL, for example. These were probably settled under the new regime long ago. Even the minister, whether he likes it or not, had nothing to say about it. Can the Minister convince me otherwise? What happened in retrospect with ABN AMRO or SNS? The PVV also welcomes the fact that there is supervision of banks. That is, of course, important. But why this European should be regulated is a mystery to us. The ECB is becoming increasingly important and the Netherlands is increasingly at the mercy of Frankfurt's whims. We can't find any of it. After all, the ECB is independent. ECB supervision may also cost some. First, 1,000 expensive supervisors were hired, who moved into a new building that cost no less than 1.3 billion. It may cost a bit, there in Europe. We stand by and look at this opulence, but we can't find any of it. What is this ECB supervision going to cost our banks extra? It is also unclear why a bank in the problems should be settled jointly. Why is the bail-in limited to 8% of the balance sheet total? Why not a full bail-in? The resolution fund would not have been necessary. Why does a Dutch bank have to pay for the failure of a Spanish bank? What exactly did this Dutch bank do, that it is being attacked for that? Still, that's how it's gonna happen. We're not allowed to find any of that. The use of the bail-in can be limited by political considerations with the argument of destabilization and risk of contagion. In the event of social unrest, as in Cyprus, the 8% bail-in was probably not reached. As we saw with SNS, the subordinated bondholders were consciously spared, because of these arguments. What are the agreements of this 8% bail-in still worth? After all, the Spanish banks had to be helped with tax money because of the exposure to French banks, the Greeks had to be helped by 200 billion because otherwise German and French banks would be in trouble. So the whole bail-in can be politicized; it will turn out to be a wash nose. What if the 8% bail-in is not reached because, for example, whole categories of creditors are excluded by the resolution authority? Doesn't the whole bail-in get much too political? When can the ESM actually be addressed? Because that is not clear from the pieces either, but it has been made possible. The Dutch commitment so far was that European supervision had to be regulated before a Single Resolution Mechanism could be adopted. Is that supervision well arranged now? They've only been there five months in Frankfurt and the building has just been completed. Can the Minister convince me that supervision of the tracks is in place? Another demand of this minister was that the banks should have an equal starting position. However, no less than 25 banks have failed the stress test. As a matter of fact, almost all of these were South European banks. The Spanish banks weren't even there yet, because they had just been saved with 40 billion from the ESM. Are all 130 banks healthy, sufficiently capitalised and stress-resistant at the moment? How did they top up the 25 billion they were short? On the basis of the BRRD, banks must pay 0.1% of the total guaranteed deposit into the resolution fund. For the Netherlands, this means a contribution of 450 million in 2015. Why should it be paid as early as 2015, when the SRM will only be activated in 2016? Is 2015 year one or year zero in the construction of that fund? From 2016, the Board will determine each bank's contribution to the fund every year, but we cannot know how it does it. How is that payment determined by the resolution fund? It's classified. How much should a bank pay to the resolution fund? It's classified. Why should we not know how much Dutch banks are going to pay to the resolution fund, exactly by bank: name, number and amount? Why is this secret? Can't the Minister clarify how much each Dutch bank has to pay in 2016 and beyond? No more open cheques, please. Brussels sends us one account after another, without knowing how these amounts were created. Draw a line here. Finally, the PVV wants an overview per bank showing how much the banks have now lost to supervisory costs, to DNB, the AFM and now also to the ECB, to contributions to resolution funds, to bank taxes and to deposit guarantee schemes. These payments are made by the customer. It's all meant to keep the taxpayer out of the wind, but everything the banks pay is eventually turned over to the customer and the bank's customer is also a taxpayer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-5.u4	Mr. Chairman. I am going to tell a slightly different story than Mr Van Dijck, as you are used to me. Yes, it is indeed about the transfer of sovereignty. That's exactly what it's supposed to be. We have seen in recent years that there is a stranglehold between banks and governments in Europe, which is causing us to fall into the rain. It is precisely by cutting that stranglehold by lifting supervision and the resolution at European level that we are trying to prevent taxpayers from having to pay for saving banks again. D66 considers that to be a very good development. I would also like to congratulate you on the speed with which the banking union has been achieved and with which it is worked out. I do not have much today: two comments and one question. The comments concern the institutional set-up and the issue of the megabanks. The question is about bridge financing, which Mr Merkie also called attention to. My first comment concerns the institutional set-up. As you know, D66 strongly supports European Community legislation and not intergovernmental treaties. I made that remark a year ago when we discussed this point. That situation cannot be reversed. Of course, that's not pretty. We must try to anchor this in European legislation. My second comment concerns the resolution mechanism. That still has to prove itself. Whether the bail-in rules are waterproof and whether the decision can indeed be made on a weekend will still have to be seen. That is why it is important to ensure at the same time that banks are not so large, complicated and complex that settlement cannot be achieved in practice. We have drawn attention to the point of the megabanks, or "too big to fail" banks. I would like to thank the Minister for drawing up the position paper on the Qualifying Holdings Directive, better known here as the Antonveneta Directive. I think it is a good piece and I am very interested in how this is being addressed at European level. My question is about bridge financing, the common backstop. I understand the Minister's reluctance towards the common backstop, because the system must ultimately be such that shareholders and bond holders have to pay first when it goes wrong. In doing so, you have a resolution fund, which may be paid by the banks, ready to shoot if that is not enough. But, as Mr Merkies said, on 1 January, the agreement on the common backstop made a year ago must be implemented. What is the state of play and what is the Minister's view of this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-5.u5	Mr. Chairman. The bill we're discussing today is important. We are going to determine how banks themselves, and no longer taxpayers, become responsible for their falling conculegas. At least that's the point. Let's not get rich prematurely. The Single Resolution Fund shall enter into force on 1 January 2016. Until then, there will be bridge funding, as my colleagues have already pointed out. The Minister states that the Netherlands is committed to ensuring that national authorities are solely responsible for their own national banking sector during that transitional period. But how hard is this? Why haven't we reached a hard agreement on this? Is the Netherlands going to have a setback? Let us call it a post-tax because this is not covered? Let me give you an example. What happens if the Greek banking system collapses in its entirety next month or in three months? Is the Minister still convinced that the Netherlands will only pay for the losses of the Dutch banking sector or will there still be a European solution under this framework? The CDA is concerned about a new system crisis that could affect us. The supposed stability after the completion of the banking union is considered with some scepticism. Let us not forget that, during the crisis, governments in Europe had to provide banking support for hundreds of billions. The Single Resolution Fund (SRF) will soon be filled with up to 55 billion euros in the distant future. Of course, the capital providers will have to bleed first, the total loss-absorbing capacity (TLAC), and only then will the settlement fund come around the corner, but we are still concerned about the size of the fund. Is it enough when it comes to a system crisis instead of a single bank? Can the Minister give his opinion on this? Is it not an idea to keep pouring into that fund and not stop at EUR 55 billion for the whole of the Union? In this context, we are concerned about the too big to fail banks. The guarantees that exist are not yet convincing to us. Why don't we just say out loud that there should be no mergers of banks under ECB supervision over the next five years? Why would the Minister want to stop that? Will he make a commitment that he will ensure that these banks do not merge in the next five years unless forced, for example, when a bank needs to be saved and taken over by another bank? In such a case, I can imagine a somewhat larger bank taking care of a smaller falling bank. As long as the financial world is not yet fully serviceable to society and as long as the cultural change we desire is not completed by words and deeds, the CDA remains concerned about our financial system. Does the Minister share these concerns or does he think that this cultural change was there? We often ask this question. The Minister always replies that the government is taking various measures to increase the stability of the system. That is true in itself, but it is all invented within the current system. After all, with the emergence of Google and Apple, especially in the financial field, we could very quickly catch up with facts in this framework. Not only the labour market is becoming more flexible, but also the financial sector. This offers advantages, but also disadvantages, which may be very large in the future. We do not make such agreements as we are now making for banks for derelict large companies that manage consumer funds. What will be done with these concerns in the future and what does consumer protection look like for companies that also offer payment services and manage large amounts of consumer money? The CDA also attaches great importance to a closed system of frameworks, controls and accountability. In this context, I would like to ask the Minister whether the supervision of the Single Resolution Board is adequately regulated. We are about to send the person who is allowed to take the initiative for resolution, but he is not under independent supervision. These people decide on tens of billions of taxpayers' money, including Dutch taxpayers' money, including Greek taxpayers' money. Although the board works independently, this does not mean that people cannot be influenced by outside forces. When it comes to a lot of money, it almost happens by default. For an example, I refer to the FIFA soap opera of recent weeks. Is it an idea to give the European Court of Auditors a permanent role in this? Is the Minister prepared to take the lead in achieving a closed oversight of the Single Resolution Board? I am concerned about the large mortgage portfolio of the Dutch banks. I am specifically concerned about the way Europe looks at the risks involved. The Dutch mortgage banks also performed well during the crisis and the default rate is low. However, this portfolio is considered risky and this results in Dutch banks having to contribute relatively much to the resolution fund. In the end, the consumer in the Netherlands will pay for this, because the banks will take the costs into account in the interest rates. Moreover, the taxpayer is also paying for it, because that interest is again deductible from taxes. In addition, Dutch banks must hold additional and relatively more capital than other banks in the banking union. This leads, for example, to less lending to companies and there is a deficit. The Minister confirms this in the written reply, but so far I do not see any action to correct this in the proposed mechanism. Is the Minister prepared to make an active statement on the Dutch position, with the result that at least part of this miscalculation of Europe will be corrected?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-5.u6	Mr. Chairman. The VVD is a strong supporter of the Banking Union and its resolution fund, which is being filled by the banks. Large banks and investors have not stopped at national borders; they have not done so for a long time since we have the internal market. The opportunities but also the disadvantages of an international banking sector therefore call for supranational solutions. The VVD considers that the risks associated with investing in banks should also lie with investors themselves and not with taxpayers. The banking sector is yet another step closer to a normal sector. After all, even at the bakery on the corner, the government does not make a bail-out if he threatens to go bankrupt. Therefore, reducing the costs of the bank's resolution, from the government to the sector and to investors themselves, the VVD sees as a major profit point. Much earlier, the rules for such a bail-in were laid down in the BRRD Directive. Those rules require a bank in difficulty to fill a capital shortage first by a bail-in of investors. For example, it ensures that the risks of investing in a bank end up with those who have taken up the risks. Among other things, the SRM Directive has agreed that if the bail-in is not a solace and a bank has to be settled, its costs must be recovered from a private fund financed by the financial sector: the resolution fund we are discussing today. The present legislative proposal regulates the adoption of the Convention laying down the rules for this fund. This fund of roughly EUR 55 billion will be filled by contributions from the financial sector in the coming years. National resolution authorities will collect the contributions and the amount of money that banks contribute to the fund depends on the size and/or risk profile of the bank. The design follows the line of my December 2013 motion and I welcome it. The rules are laid down in a separate treaty in an earlier motion, at the explicit request of the VVD. I would remind you that the European Commission initially wanted to regulate the establishment of the fund by means of an ordinary regulation. However, this would mean that the Netherlands had run the risk that the bail-in rules could ever be watered down by a majority and that the Dutch banks' contribution to the resolution fund could still be called upon. This separate treaty prevents this from happening. It states not only that the "bail-in" rules should not be watered down, but also that if those rules were ever to be relaxed, there would be a procedure whereby Member States would eventually be able to terminate participation in the Single Resolution Fund. I think that's very important. The second important point is that the fund is currently made up of national compartments, so that the contributions of banks in the Netherlands, especially in the early years, cannot be used to the maximum for problem banks elsewhere. Gradually, those compartments are merged. Those national compartments were also a tough condition. We have been given a lot of certainty at the start of the Banking Union, through the scrutiny of the banks, the asset quality review. It was also important to be vetted by the ECB, but in any case we wanted to build in an additional security to prevent banks in difficulties in the early years from trying to spread any hidden problems to banks in other Member States. In these important principles, it is extremely helpful that we have designed the Banking Union in this way, and that is why we agree with the present Treaty.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-5.u7	We have tabled a motion together, and I believe that the main point was that I wonder if Mr Harbers still considers the most important point to be that of moving towards a system of nationally defined settlement funds. That has not yet been met.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-5.u8	There were six points in that motion and they are all important as far as I am concerned. We have already discussed this in the debate about the fact that there should be no new public back-up from the ESM. Despite the fact that the Ecofin Council said 'yes, we want to look at it', it has not come to this day and I think that is very good. It also stated, for example, that the Treaty should contain a direct reference to the BRRD rules so that they can be prevented from watering down. So I can go over that whole motion; there were six points in it. From five points you can say: check, we have it inside. Indeed, it also stated that it should be made up of national funds; that was not fully achieved. These have become national compartments, but certainly in the early years they work completely in the way we intended national funds. If it looks like a national fund and smells like a national fund, you can call it a compartment from me, but certainly for the first few years, for that very important start-up phase of the banking union, we also got right on that point in the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-5.u9	There is now very much a twist on the facts to pretend that the motion has been carried out. Let's face it, I've been to all these debates. We had those debates together and the most important thing Mr Harbers said was that those national settlement funds should remain. Then you can say "yes, they will now become compartments," but in the end they will become one settlement fund in eight years. Mr Harbers has really resisted this, and that was also the headlines in the newspaper. He just didn't bring this in, did he? This motion was simply not carried out by the Minister of Finance, was it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-5.u10	We had this political debate a long time ago, in December 2013 and in January 2014. In that debate I also indicated that we raised five and a half out of the six points in the motion. I think that's a good score. Indeed, I would have preferred to have full national funds forever, if that had been possible. Can I live with this? Yes. I admitted that at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-5.u11	It's almost a repeat of moves, but that's how we remember the VVD. She puts on big pants and says, "That's not gonna happen to us." She'll even file a motion and then sign at the cross. Don't tell me these are separate funds at national level. They're just being mutualized. In the first year 40% go together in the pot. In the second year it is 20%. So after two years, you've had 60% together. So do not comment on the fact that you have brought that up.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-5.u12	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-5.u13	Mr Harbers may show a bit of a sense of reality. He had a different wish package, but he just has nothing to say in Europe. In this parliament he signs again at the cross.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-5.u14	My reality is that my second motion from December 2013 brought in five-and-a-half of the six points. My most important reality is that which I obtained with my first motion from October 2013. At first, I was alone in the Chamber on this point. I said that it should be regulated in a separate treaty, that it could not be regulated in a regular regulation under the EU Treaty. It has become a separate treaty, with a direct reference to the BRRD Directive. In addition, there is a procedure for getting out should the rules water down. That's more than enough for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-5.u15	Mr Van Dijck, let me ask you a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-5.u16	Okay, it's become a separate treaty. That is the jacket, but what really matters is that a Dutch bank will have to pay for a Spanish bank. That's the big problem. That's why you wanted national funds. Those Spanish banks just got helped with 40 billion. If that had happened a year later, ING and ABN AMRO should have transferred 40 billion to those Spanish banks. That's what you wanted to avoid, but you just didn't bring it in.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-5.u17	That's what we brought in. The most important thing we have brought in is that it is a separate treaty, in which the Netherlands has something to say. Under an ordinary regulation within the EU Treaty, we could have been overruled by a majority if the other countries thought it was good, that the crisis is over and that we no longer need to have those strict bail-in rules. For that we now have a good lock on the door. That's why I think this is a day to celebrate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-5.u18	Mr. Chairman. The PvdA Group strongly supports a European Banking Union. Banks operate internationally, they compete internationally and they also place the risks at international level with different governments if there is no banking union. We were able to see that during the crisis. After all, what would have happened to ABN AMRO if we had had these rules, these agreements, as I say to Mr Van Dijck and others? The shareholders, the investors, would have taken the fall rather than the taxpayer. Because we didn't have these appointments then, it was now necessary. So that would have been the effect of these agreements and that would have been good. It's okay if shareholders sit on the blisters when a bank falls over. It's bad when taxpayers sit on the blisters when a bank falls over. Clear agreements have now been reached, both at European and international level, on who is responsible for the banking misery. This prevents disputes between governments in the case of a bank and in the Netherlands and Belgium. There has also been European supervision of banks. We will be talking to the European financial sector supervisor tomorrow. We can then also ask ourselves as a parliament. Monitoring has become sharper and better. That is also necessary, because the financial sector has caused serious damage to Europe's economy due to reckless behaviour. Today, this legislation is taking a further step towards a banking union. That step has the support of the PvdA Group. I have two more questions to ask. comments. My first point concerns a question that has already been asked, which concerns bridge financing. If there are too few, what is it like and when will it be arranged? That is not quite clear to the PvdA Group. Mr Koolmees asked for this too. My second point, which I am constantly making, but for a reason, concerns the impact of legislation on the regulated financial sector, on the banking sector and on everything less or less regulated: the shadow bank? We talked about this earlier this week. The Minister promised to present an analysis for the Netherlands in the autumn, but also at European level. I am already satisfied with that commitment, but I would also like to make this point in plenary. The better and the more stringent we regulate the financial sector, the banks, the more circumvention structures will be devised to get out of this regulation. This, too, may pose risks to the Dutch and European economies. Those risks must be combated. We are not only talking about this today, but the risk of shadow banking needs to be mitigated.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-5.u19	I'll suspend the sitting for about five minutes, but we'll be flexible if it takes a little longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-5.u20	I am happy to give the floor to the Minister of Finance for his answer in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-5.u21	Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing an intergovernmental agreement whereby the Member States whose banks are going to be part of the Banking Union undertake to collect resolution charges from their banks and to contribute them to a joint fund, the Single Resolution Fund, the Joint Resolution Fund. That's part of the Banking Union. As Mr Koolmees pointed out, this banking union has in a very short time, after the European Union has waited a very long time to get the banking sector in order where, for example, it has happened much faster in the US, created a solid but complex structure and has already come into force. The common capital requirements, which have also been internationally agreed but which have been further downgraded in Europe in the Capital Requirements Directive on the basis of the Basel criteria, are an important basis for this. The second major building block is common supervision; the 130 largest banks are under the direct supervision of the ECB supervisory leg and all other banks stand that indirectly on the basis of the same supervisory framework that will apply to all banks, the many thousands of banks in Europe. The third important building block is the BRRD, the recovery and resolution regulation applicable to all European countries. It needs to be implemented nationally. Those countries which do not go one step further and join the banking union must therefore also comply with the same rules of the BRRD. An important part of this is that you set up a resolution fund and that you collect a resolution levy from your banks, which is done on the basis of common underlying regulation. Another important part of the BRRD concerns the bail-in rules. Why is that so crucial? We have made sure that banks are much better off and meet higher capital requirements, which are also gradually tightening up in the coming years; there is phasing-in. Moreover, some of the banks have been recapitalised. Mr Van Dijck asked where that money came from. An important part comes from the capital markets. In the run-up to the start of the Banking Union, European banks have raised a great deal of money from the capital market to stand stronger for it and get through the stress test. This has led to additional requirements for some banks, in the sense that they need to strengthen the balance sheet even further. On top of that, the "bail-in" rules. This means that if in the future a bank gets into trouble and has to take losses and write them off, those losses are borne by the owners of the institution, being investors, shareholders and bond holders. A "bail-in" hierarchy has been agreed for this, which goes far beyond what existed in any country before. We could only do that because we agreed to do that. In the Netherlands we only have a very small bit of bin-in, namely when we nationalized the NS, and at ABN AMRO not at all. In the past, Denmark has opted for a deeper bail-in and has been punished for years, in the sense that the financing of the Danish bank has become much more expensive and the financial markets have looked at the Danish government with great distrust. Now we have been able to take that step because we have done it together. That is the strength of the banking union. Together you agree on higher demands and a supervisory framework, and you dare to say together: if things go wrong, the investors will pay that bill. These are all defence mechanisms for the fund we are talking about today. You don't just have direct access to that resolution fund. On the contrary. The first line of defense is that banks have much more money, equity, bail-in assets in their homes. Those requirements are further filled in individually via MREL, in minimum bail-in capital. For globally systemically relevant banks in the Netherlands, the only work on the TLAC requirement is that only the ING service provider is still in progress. This is again a capital requirement, to ensure that the amount of bail-in capital is sufficient, should it go wrong in such a large institution. How do we know that these bail-in rules, which initially go up to 8%, are sufficient? In almost all bank rescues during the financial crisis in recent years, 8% would have been sufficient. I believe that one or two Irish banks had such heavy losses that 8% would not have been enough. If you have that 8% all the way down and there are even more losses to be offset, then you can finance the next 5% from national funds or from the compartment of the resolution fund. If those funds are exhausted or if the loss is even greater than this 5%, then the bail-in continues, up to and including the assets of large depositors. These are far-reaching measures, designed for a very different situation than that of 2008-2009 and beyond. That brings me to the fund and to the question of how it works. All banks contribute to it. There's also a risk factor in it. On the basis of European legislation, very detailed criteria are laid down on the basis of which the level of the levy is known per bank. Mr Van Dijk asks: can I know these criteria for the banks? I don't know yet. This also has to do with an aspect which I shall come back to later, namely the tax deductibility of the levy. Some banks may not be able to make full use of tax deductibility, so the net burden is higher for them. But the levy is thus determined on the basis of fixed, detailed regulations. There is also a risk weight, which is currently beneficial to the Dutch banks. I shall come back to that later on in connection with Mr Omtzigt's question on the Dutch mortgage portfolios. This is how the fund is filled. The fund consists primarily of national compartments. Two mechanisms play a role in this. Firstly, the fund is gradually being filled over a period of eight years and secondly, risk sharing is gradually increasing. The first year, of course, there is only a small amount of capital in the fund and we are already taking a 40% risk-sharing step. This is then increased in smaller steps to 100% risk sharing. At the end of the eight years, we basically have a funded fund of EUR 55 billion and we also share the risks. Does that make any sense? No. The Netherlands has made this proposal itself, including the introduction of a gradual mutualisation. We want to be sure that all banks joining the banking union are in principle sound. If this is the case, there may still be risks in the banking sector in country X or country Y due to various historical factors or national policy factors. So we have really built in those eight years before we become fully responsible for each other. Then we are sure that even those historical risk factors that may still be hidden somewhere will be largely phased out, or known, or mitigated. Then why is it advantageous to have joint insurance? If you are sure that the group participants with whom you take out the joint insurance carry similar risks and do not have all kinds of illnesses among the members, then it is more advantageous to carry those risks together. You pay the insurance premium together in that system and you jump together, if things still go wrong. During that eight-year transitional period, the fund is therefore not yet filled. If banks fall down at that stage, the order is that the national compartment is always set first. That is what remains to be done during that transitional period. When that is exhausted, we go to the second step and then it's about the mutants from those national compartments. A percentage of all compartments is then collected. If even that is not enough, we will return to the national compartment to clear it completely. Then we come to the phase where the fund is empty. At least, given the degree of mutualization, the fund is then emptied. What happens then? Extraordinary contributions can then be levied on the institutions. In other words, on top of the regular annual contribution, an additional account is sent to the institutions to contribute. This may be up to three times the regular annual contribution. It should no longer be because otherwise you will have a kind of domino effect: you would get the other banks in trouble, because they suddenly have to pay very large contributions per year. Up to three times the annual contribution can then be collected directly from the institutions. Furthermore, the possibility of borrowing between compartments has been created. That is a temporary transfer that must always be repaid. To this end, special contributions are required from institutions. We've had everything now. We have had the higher capital requirements. There is much more bail-in assets required in each bank. There's tighter surveillance. Still, a bank gets into trouble. Then we apply the bail-in. Even with almost all the examples we know from the past, when we did not yet have the good supervision and not yet have the good capital requirements, that 8% was sufficient. Let's say that 8% isn't enough. In the end, the fund will be arrived at. So we have to go to the national compartment first, then there is mutualisation, so risk sharing, as far as is now being introduced. And then what? Then there is even more loss to be made or there is even more need for short-term financing. Then two things apply. Firstly, especially during the transitional period, there is simply a national responsibility for each of them for their own compartment. If your compartment has been emptied and you have made maximum use of the other compartments, so if you have used the maximum risk sharing, then you are simply responsible as a Member State. It is then obvious that you are pre-financing, so as a Member State you are making the funds available. Again, you're supposed to pick it up from the sector. With ex post taxes, the country's sector must complement it for the rescue of that national bank. Secondly, there will be a public back-up throughout the transitional period. That's what we said to each other. I am not convinced that this is necessary and there are other countries that are not. However, some countries still felt insecure, despite all this pride of measures and protective walls. They felt it was important to announce that after all this there would be a public catch. We have divided opinions on the usefulness and necessity of this alone, but we have said that we will look at it again with all of us in the coming years. The question of what public backup should be like is also divided. Some say that the ESM should ultimately be the fall-back behind the resolution fund: if everything is exhausted and there is a huge banking crisis etc., the ESM should in any case be able to finance it. The Netherlands is not for that. That's not why the ESM was founded. The ESM Treaty focuses on countries on the basis of programmes that conclude countries and on the basis of conditionality; well, the Chamber knows that. We have made it possible for this to happen, and we have also promised this to Parliament, at the request of the European Parliament in the negotiations, and we have also built in that the fund can, in principle, borrow itself on the capital market. So there is still that possibility. Of course, it has not yet been used yet, which has yet to be worked out, and I do not expect it to ever come to that, frankly, but in principle, the fund could, on the basis of the legal obligation that Member States have to deal with banks, take out pre-financing from the market, which naturally gives credibility and credit to the fund itself. Member States are then obliged to collect this from their banks with ex-post charges. That, I believe, is the option before us. If there is still a need for a backstop construction, I refer to the loan facility that we have made possible. There are discussions about the ESM or other backstops. We will talk about that, but the Netherlands is not for that. There are really very different views on this. I also think it is a wrong signal. That is what I said in the debate in Brussels: people, we are setting up a system that will make our banks much more solid, with solid mechanisms and so on; if you make such a point now that there has to be a big pot of money for public backup, you say in fact that you have no confidence in the measures before us. I disagree. The whole structure of strict requirements, strict supervision, a deep bail-in et cetera protects public affairs and taxpayers in a very solid way. It should be applied consistently where appropriate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-5.u22	I can understand why some people have less confidence in the system as it is being rigged. There are all kinds of escapes in the system, which can lead to derogations from the rules. The Minister says that 8% bail-in is like a house, but in the case of, for example, destabilization of a system or risk of contamination, there can be a deviation from that 8% bail-in. In other words, there can be political practice with the bail-in if there are other banks in the system that can get into trouble or if the creditors are very concentrated in a particular country. If that is the case, for example, the bail-in can only be 4% instead of 8%. The same goes, of course, for the bank's payments. In the BRRD there is very clear 0.1% of covered deposits. That's clear. However, this system states that it is in principle about 0.1%, but that it depends on the risk of the individual institution. This can lead to another deviation. I see too many mechanisms to deviate from the original agreements. Does the Minister agree with me on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-5.u23	No, I disagree with Mr Van Dijck. In the past, when we did not have common rules, a common regulator and a European competition authority, this mechanism would certainly occur. Many national politicians would really hesitate to apply bail-in to their banking systems, because they were terrified that the financial market would punish them and the banks for it. This has happened in Denmark in the past. But why should national politicians do so now, regardless of the fact that European legislation does not allow the European regulator to approve financial stability risks and the competition authority to look at state aid rules? The key question is why a country would do this. We've already had a case: a Portuguese bank that got into trouble. At that time, the current state aid rules in the field of bail-in were applied. As you know, the rules will become even stricter from next year on. The Portuguese Government has done the con amore because it protects itself. After all, the state did not have to put large sums of money into it. It protects the taxpayer and thus its own economy. We have seen the opposite example in Ireland. Ireland has had a major banking crisis, partly because of the huge housing bubble that had built up there. Ireland wanted to do the bail-in, but didn't do it in the end. Nor did the country get any support from Europe to do it. Now it's the other way around. If Ireland were to find itself in such a situation again, I assume that it will not happen. If it does not, the country will apply bail-in immediately, otherwise its public debt will rise enormously again. It's also for the protection of the state. I therefore do not share the expectation that national politicians do not want it. It protects them, protects the state, public debt and taxpayers. Moreover, we have all kinds of regulators in Europe that will prevent national authorities from doing so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-5.u24	The question is, of course, why these escapes are built in. Why do I read that we can deviate from the 8% bail-in based on contamination risk or destabilization of a system? That was not necessary according to the Minister, but it says that the Resolution Board can decide whether the 8% will be reached. Then the board should not have that power, but you should have just said that you apply 8% bail-in at all times, left or right, and that there can be no deviation because a French, Greek or German bank happens to be in trouble. That is what is happening in Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-5.u25	I have a few things to tell you. The Single Resolution Board does not just have the power to deviate from the 8%. The only thing the Single Resolution Board can decide is to remove certain liabilities from the chain of custody of the bail. That is possible, but it still needs to be tackled before the fund can be used. That, I think, is the misunderstanding in Mr Van Dijck's reasoning. But as far as I am concerned, that provision should not have been required because I think that bail-in is always possible and should be possible on the basis of the capital requirements we impose on the current supervision we have on the banks. So it's not like we can just put the 8% aside and say: we're scared, we just don't do it. Of certain liabilities one may say: not those, but then we go further in the hierarchy in search of the following.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-5.u26	Of course, that's exactly where the crux is. Certain liabilities, therefore, are certain lenders who are not affected for one reason or another. Can the Minister at least mention some of these categories which can then be excluded?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-5.u27	No, I'd be crazy. I'm not gonna do that. Let me mention one, namely pension funds and funds from those funds. That'll appeal to the SP. The supervisor could say that I am not going to take on pension fund assets, because that is a huge attack on people's pensions in the country; I am not taking them into account because of their macro-economic consequences.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-5.u28	The example of pension funds appeals to us, but you would like to be clear about this right now. You leave that to the Single Resolution Board. So you don't really know what's being excluded and what's not.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-5.u29	No, that's right, we have a resolution authority for that too. It is, of course, very much the size of the losses to be made or such a category of liabilities to be completely wiped out or only to contribute to a small percentage in order to achieve sufficient loss-bearing capacity. So, no, that's not ruled out in advance, and that's a good thing. Mr Merkies asked about the possibility of irrevocable payment commitments. I think that should be allowed. Those commitments should be fully covered by low-risk collateral or assets and should be immediately callable. The Board may also only gradually allocate this option to institutions that request it, so it is not so that an institution can use it immediately and say for the first X percent: I'll put some I owe you's in the cash register first. So it may only be gradual and not less than 15% of the total amount of an institution's commitment. So it is also limited in size. And the commitments must be immediate in case the fund needs money, so the possibilities are limited. Mr Van Dijck asked why payments should be made in 2015. As he knows, this has already been made mandatory in the BRRD, the system of national resolution funds. So also the countries that do not participate in the joint resolution fund now all have a national resolution fund as of 1 January 2015, so does the Netherlands. Only those countries that set up the Joint European Fund from 1 January 2016 will pay their 15% contribution as of 1 January 2016 into the SRF. With that 2016 is also year one. I believe that was Mr Van Dijck's question, namely whether 2016 counts as year zero or as year one. So it's year one. As a result, the first payment of those volumes was made from 1 January 2016 in that joint fund. All other countries continue to pour out in accordance with European agreements, but into their own funds. By the way, Mr Van Dijck did not think it mattered whether we would vote against, so it does not matter at all that we are having a debate here at all. If the House rejects this treaty, the Netherlands will not be participating in it and will not be paying into this European fund, but we will still have to build up the national fund, in accordance with European rules, and put our money into it. So it does matter if it's rejected. Of course, I am not in favour of this, but it is just a matter of fact to know whether we are having a serious debate here. Well, that's true.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-5.u30	I thought all eurozone countries were obliged to participate anyway. So far England and the Czech Republic are not participating, I believe, but they are not euro countries. Surely all euro countries are obliged to participate in any way? If we vote against, should we not get out of the euro and out of the European Union? I repeat, I'd like to, but okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-5.u31	No. I will check in a moment, but if this treaty is rejected, we will not be obliged to pay the national resolution levies in the European Fund. It would be a very special situation: it would be in the banking union under joint supervision and so on, but not in the fund.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-5.u32	I welcome the fact that the Minister is going to check it, because the question of what happens when he is adopted is a key question. That question has been discussed extensively. She has also been added to the written questions. However, it is good for history if the Minister comes back to the question of the precise framework if this is rejected here or before the votes. Then we also understand how binding it is, what kind of national funds need to be built up and which banks need to be saved. Then we understand what happens when a bank such as ING, which is now under European supervision, falls over. Do we have to take it alone? You ask that question before you disagree with this bill, it seems to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-5.u33	I will come back to this in more detail in a moment. In the current situation, we are in business ourselves and we are jointly saving banks as the fund is filled and the mutualisation, i.e. risk-sharing, increases. So that saving happens gradually. Mr Van Dijck asked about the Dutch banks' contribution. 55 billion is being built into the fund. That's the target power. Once that target power is reached, we don't have to deposit anymore. I think Mr Omtzigt had a question on this. If this target capital is to be used over the years, it must be supplemented. Charges can therefore still be collected after the construction phase. That is because the fund has been used and the target capital has to be the 55 billion again as soon as possible. The Dutch contribution to this is 4.5 billion. This is about the amount that Dutch banks have had to put into the national fund since this year. Other countries will have to pay relatively more as of next year. For the Netherlands, this does not change de facto. The exact annual contribution to the Fund will be determined by the SRB in 2016. Now we have national levies and a national fund, next year we have a joint European fund. The SRB will send the account to the banks. Moreover, the scale of charges to achieve that target capital may change if the banking landscape changes due to banks disappearing or merging.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-5.u34	Why is there a difference between the BRRD, so what the banks will have to pay this year and the amount they will have to pay from next year? This year the Dutch banks would have to pay 450 million, i.e. 0.1% of the 4.5 billion. From next year it will be a bit unclear, but I come to 560 million: 12.5% of the target amount and 1% of the guaranteed deposits. Then there is another risk factor, determined by the Board. I think it's a little dubious that we're putting something up without being able to say individually or collectively to the banks in the Netherlands how much it's going to cost a year.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-5.u35	No, it is true for Dutch banks that the contribution this year, still under the national fund, is about equal to what they will pay next year. I do not know what calculation Mr Van Dijck himself has made, but the amount remains roughly the same. On the question of how the levy was built up in 2015 and why it will change for other countries in 2016, I will come back in the second term. I just need to get the criteria and the build-up. There are differences between 2015 and 2016.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-5.u36	The difference is that under the BRRD 0.1% of guaranteed deposits must be paid. It builds up in 10 years. Under the SRF, that's 12.5% a year. That is another percentage and therefore the amount will be higher for the banks as of next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-5.u37	I'll get back to you in second term. It's a little more complex than this simple calculation. The contribution of Dutch banks will remain broadly the same next year. I made a general commitment to Mr Merkies on 5 February. He then asked about the deductibility of the contribution to the resolution fund and the resolution funds. The system of the vpb is so that payments from companies are in principle deductible, unless you arrange otherwise. We took a good look at that. We have also looked at how other countries deal with this. By far the majority of Member States participating in the Banking Union allow it to be a deductible contribution. The Netherlands will do the same. We are not taking any measures to limit the deduction. The levy that banks have to pay is tax deductible. In any case, 11 countries do so, and we know from four Member States that they have reduced the deduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-5.u38	This is a clear signal. The taxpayer is going to pay for this immediately, because the banks can deduct this for tax purposes. In fact, they are not contributing to this and we must all contribute to it as it were. The question then is what amount is involved. Is that what we're hearing?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-5.u39	In fact, it is a 25% tax discount. That's what I'm going to tell you. It is just that companies are allowed to charge their costs and offset their operating profit before the tax comes along. We have found no reason to change this specific cost factor.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-5.u40	It may not be able to be fully deducted, but if we are talking about 25% of 450 million, then we will soon be dealing with the 100 million that we are missing in the state treasury. Can I conclude that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-5.u41	These are operating costs. Banks, like other companies, are allowed to deduct their costs. It would require a separate specific policy decision not to want to do so. I'm not doing a criminal expedition against banks, so I didn't find a reason for this. Most countries do it the same way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-5.u42	Mr Van Dijck has another question. I'll ask him to restrict himself a little.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-5.u43	The whole exercise was meant to spare the taxpayer. Now the treasury is missing 100 million a year for eight years. Then we're talking about a billion dollars that has to come from somewhere. Well, that's the taxpayer again. Actually, the taxpayer's going to pay for a quarter of this whole exercise.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-5.u44	Mr Van Dijck is also waking up. This is exactly the same remark that Mr Merkies made. I replied to that. I am not going to repeat it; this type of populism should not be rewarded. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has made a few comments. They weren't really formulated as a question. They found that the bail-in rules were also enshrined in the Treaty. That's right. It has been an important point for us to ensure that these bail-in rules cannot be changed in the future, after we have entered this fund and bear each other's risks in the banking sector of the banking union. This is therefore enshrined in the Treaty in several ways. There were a number of comments on the decision-making. How will this work in the future if a bank has to be saved? We have also talked about this recently. On the basis of the Intervention Act in the Netherlands, the banking supervisors, the Nederlandsche Bank, and the minister play a role in this. They both have instruments at their disposal. The good tradition in the Netherlands is that Parliament is informed and taken into account, whether confidential or not. After a decision has been taken, for example, on nationalisation or after otherwise financial support is given to banks, the Minister is of course accountable to the Chamber. That situation is going to change. That is legitimate, in my view, because budget law is not at stake. If that is the case in the extreme situations I have outlined, where national authorities are being looked at, then of course we are falling back to the old system. Then the Chamber will be informed and involved as early as possible and the Minister will be accountable for the involvement of national funds. In normal situations, we now have an independent settlement authority. For the big banks that will be the SRM. For the smaller banks and for the larger in a more executive sense, the National Resolution Authority, which is attached to DNB, will do this work. It does so independently, with established decision-making procedures. The principles are established: bail-in must have taken place, for example, and the least-cost-principle. The latter means that it must be done as cheaply as possible, including in order to protect the fund. The relations and role of the minister and the Dutch Bank are changing. Which brings me to the following: who then supervises these authorities? The European Court of Auditors is important in this regard. The European Resolution Authority is accountable to the European Parliament, but also to the Council, and thus reports to the Ecofin on the policies pursued. It also reports to the Eurogroup if it wishes, but formally reports to the Ecofin, the Council and the Commission. The European Court of Auditors has far-reaching powers of control over the SRB. What's that all about? The Court of Auditors shall assess the provisional accounts of the Resolution Authority. In the context of the fight against fraud and the fight against fraud, the European Court of Auditors may carry out on-the-spot checks on documents and on-the-spot checks on all those who have received resources from the SRB. The European Court of Auditors will publish a report every 12 months on the effectiveness and effectiveness of the European Resolution Authority. Our own General Court had made another comment on the scope of the ECA's research possibilities. Is it allowed to look deep enough in the books? We have provided an overview of the possibilities, also to our own ARK. The European Court of Auditors is empowered to request all necessary information, with the SRB, the Council and the Commission looking into whether it has been effective and effective. I've now arrived at the "rest category." Mr Nijboer had another question. Mr Nijboer is not himself in the residual category, but his question is. The question was about what is happening outside the official and the big banks. Mr Nijboer's concern is that, as we regulate, restrict and supervise banks, a world outside the banking sector will arise. That's the so-called shadow banking. I always say that shadow banking isn't just bad. There are also many new initiatives, which allow alternative funding channels. However, we must be alert to the risks that arise, both macroeconomic and micro, for consumers. I repeat my commitment. I am not going to do an analysis myself, but DNB is working on an analysis, also for the Netherlands, and that is what DNB is doing in the framework of the Financial Stability Board, which is working on this theme internationally. I can send that analysis of the Dutch Bank to the Chamber in the second half of this year and then we can zoom in on it further. Mr Van Dijck asked for an overview of all the costs of supervision. We have previously exchanged this with the Chamber: the current costs of supervision, how it works with European supervision. The ESRB, because that is what we are talking about today, so the Resolution Board, the Resolution Authority itself sends an account to the bank for the costs it incurs. The costs of the Netherlands Bank's work as a resolution authority are also charged to the banks. On 18 December 2014, I sent a letter to the Chamber on the size and allocation of those costs. Mr Van Dijck also asked: is European supervision really on track? Are those banks gonna be okay? As he knows, the ECB formally started European supervision in November last year. Prior to that, the whole process of Asset Quality Review, the assessment of bank balance sheets, has been done. In this context, a lot of capital has been raised, but also as a result of the AQR and the stress test, a number of banks have been asked to raise more money. In the coming years, supervision and standards will be further increased. The amount of national discretion, national derogations remaining in the whole framework of capital requirements, is gradually decreasing. So I think that the quality and stability of banks will increase even further in the coming years. Mr Omtzigt asked about the mortgages on the balance sheet of Dutch banks. He's worried about that. He fears that the risk weights will be increased. At least that is not the case at the moment. The risk weights for the Dutch banks are even limited, so that's a good thing. In the future, that could change. That's his point. The current risk weights stem from the use of internal models of the banks themselves, which have been reviewed and approved by DNB. These should also be subject to periodic stress scenarios to assess whether there are new risks in them. The ECB is now taking over that role from DNB, so it may be that the ECB will make other choices in the future. That hasn't happened so far. Moreover, DNB will remain closely involved as an advisor to the ECB. DNB will therefore also share with the ECB the knowledge that one has about the mortgage portfolios and the risks that they may or may not contain, and the specific characteristics of the housing market that lie below. So we're on top of that. At the moment, I have no reason to believe that things are going to change to our disadvantage in the short term. Mr Omtzigt asked about culture in the banking sector. Or I share his concern, at least that's how I understood his question. I'm not worry-free. There are many incentives that may lead to people in the financial sector prefer not to value risks and overvalue returns. This is almost a matter for the financial sector, and that is why we have made laws and regulations. The aim is to better identify risks and translate them into monitoring and into higher resolution requirements. If these risks materialise, they are pushed back to the owner, who also enjoyed the profits and returns. That is the way we deal with it. The culture in the banking sector will change. The debate and the debate on remuneration are now really being felt and conducted very sharply in the banking sector. The banking sector itself has also taken the necessary initiatives with regard to remuneration policy and disciplinary law, including to address this culture. We have the fitness test, the oath and so on. So there are also initiatives that the banking sector itself is already working on. This remains a point of attention. I think I'm a long way. I can also address the question of what happens when the Netherlands votes against the IGA. The ratification of this treaty in the Netherlands really requires the express consent of the First and Second Chambers. We cannot ratify the treaty without Parliament's consent. So we are not fully participating in the banking union. That is a complicated situation, because you are actually in conflict with the SPS, but the practical situation is that we, like countries that are in Europe but not in the banking union, should simply continue to build up a national fund. However, we do not give up on the joint settlement fund, because we do not have a legal basis for that, as it were. Mr Van Dijck asked whether the Chamber could still receive the opinion of the Council of State. It is apparently customary that these opinions should not be made public if the Council of State does not have any comments. That's a little wondrous. The Council of State's opinion did not really contain any comments, but I have no objection to this, of course. I do not know what that looks like and whether I should give the Chamber a blank piece of paper; perhaps there is a headline on that from the Council of State. So I will look at how I can give this to the Chamber, but take it from me that the Council of State really has not made any comment. It was a blank piece of advice. Oh, it's there, isn't it? That's solved again. I think I've answered the questions with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-5.u45	Thank you. We're due for the second term of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-5.u46	Mr. Chairman. There's a lot of stuff being brought in, but it's not about the fact that there's a bail-in. We've been arguing for a bail-in since 2008. That was not received very enthusiastically at first. In the end, we got an Intervention Act. It is good that there is a bail-in mechanism and it is also good that there is European supervision, but a banking union is much more than that; a banking union also means that we should save each other's banks. We are not in favour of this, especially since I hear all kinds of other things too, for example that the taxpayer actually pays a quarter of a share of such a fund. Let's be honest: if this is an additional deduction for the banks of 100 million, you're gonna miss 100 million that you're gonna have to pick up or cut somewhere else. On the irrevocable payment commitments, the Minister merely repeated what was already stated in the written reply. It's precisely why you're making that possible at all that matters to me. That surprises me, actually. I have a small question about the ex-post, Maximized at three times the annual contribution. What about when the fund is fully filled and when you no longer have an annual contribution? So what is the annual contribution three times? Comments have been made on the upper limit, the maximation, of banks. A motion on this matter has been passed by me earlier. I suppose I'm still getting a ruling on how we're working on that upper limit. For this reason, I also support the motion on mergers which Mr Omtzigt will be tabling in the near future. Under that motion is my name, too. The General Court said that there should be a comprehensive supervisory framework. I still wonder how final that supervisory framework is. I did not ask whether the Court of Auditors could examine revenue and expenditure, but I meant my question in the following way. Suppose, we want to ex-post assess how a decision of the Single Resolution Board came about. Suppose that one way or another a bank was saved and that one opted for certain constructions. Who paid for it? Perhaps there will be a parliamentary inquiry. What are the possibilities of having access to such a decision afterwards?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-5.u47	Mr. Chairman. I am a little surprised that the Council of State had no comments at all on this bill. Because I do have a lot of questions. I also noticed the Minister's last remark, which was about what would happen if the Dutch Parliament voted against. Maybe it's a good idea for the VVD to do that. That party was a strong supporter of national resolution funds. So if we do not agree, we will get exactly what the VVD wanted, namely a national resolution fund. The Dutch banks will not have to pay for weak Spanish, Greek and Italian banks. So it might be worth considering not agreeing for the VVD after all. That would be a novum by the way, because the VVD always signs at the cross. Perhaps it wouldn't be wrong if the group didn't do that this time. Mr Merkies said: we hear that taxpayers should be spared, that banks should pay for it themselves, and this and that. But the monkey just came out of the sleeve. It now appears that the contribution to the resolution fund is simply deductible for the Vpb. I agree with what Mr Merkies said. This means that the taxpayer will contribute more than 1 billion to this resolution fund. The remaining 3.5 billion is also allocated over the account holders by higher interest rates. Banks' customers are also taxpayers. First the taxpayers got the bill afterwards and now they get it in advance. That's the big difference. Can the Minister address the question of what would have been the resolution of ABN AMRO if we had already been in the scaffolding at the time, in 2008, this SRM? So how did that settlement go? Now, would ABN AMRO have been bankrupt? Would the bank have been settled? Ready, too bad; no more ABN AMRO? Or had the bail-in taken place and could the bank have made a start? The taxpayer would not have had to put 30 billion on the table for ABN AMRO. What would have happened if we had the SRM in 2008? I like the 8% bail-in in itself. The percentage should have been even higher for me. The PVV also believes that, of course, creditors should first be attacked when a bank gets into trouble. After all, they knowingly lent money to that bank. They've been at risk. That should have been done in Greece at the time. Creditors also receive a considerable reward for running that risk. My group therefore has no comments on the bail-in. However, in my first term, I asked why 8% was chosen. Why isn't that 8% hard? Why wasn't a much higher percentage chosen? That should have happened as far as we are concerned. The banks that did not pass the asset quality review are now healthy. I ask the Minister if that has been retested. Or does he take it only on good faith? Is he confident that these nineteen South European banks raised 25 billion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-5.u48	Mr. Chairman. Many thanks to the Minister for the clear answer and the good outline of the system. Frankly, I am surprised at the input of SP and PVV into this debate. For in recent years, the line has been that it is a disgrace for taxpayers to pay for the banks, while in summary it is a disgrace, 'because we want to keep saving our own banks'. To be honest, I do not quite follow this line of reasoning. Mr Van Dijck was just talking about all those Dutch banks that are going to have to pay for South European banks. But I remember the problems with ABN AMRO, ING, SNS and DSB. The line is, in my opinion, that we are simply against whatever arguments are put forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-5.u49	Mr Koolmees has not listened to my story. I just said that we agree with the fact that there is a bail-in. We have already argued for this in 2008. Take a look at our second note on lessons from the credit crisis. D66 was against that. Eventually, because it came from Europe, D66 was ahead of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-5.u50	This is a nice twist in Mr Merkies' story. I just heard him say: we are in favour of bail-in, but against European resolution. According to Mr Van Dijck's reasoning, Dutch banks will then pay for the weak southern European banks. We have a banking sector of 400% GDP. The banks I just mentioned were all saved by the taxpayer. I do not see the solution described by Mr Merkies. I think the Netherlands will benefit from the European Banking Union. In fact, it prevents us from having to go back to saving all kinds of countries. Look at what happened in Ireland and in Spain, where European taxpayers' money had to be used to keep those countries alive. All in all, I do not fully understand this reasoning of both parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-5.u51	Mr Merkies has a short question about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-5.u52	An interruption is always in two, so I get to do it again. Then I would like to hear from Mr Koolmees whether he does not regret not being in favour in 2008. Because he does mention all those banks that we saved with a lot of taxpayers' money. We might not have had enough, but then we could have convinced other parties, which would have saved a lot of taxpayers' money.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-5.u53	That's an interesting argument. The Minister also said in his first term that we had just gained some experience with Scandinavian countries: Sweden in 1993 and Denmark just before. In this case, a country would have decided separately on a bail-in, regardless of what other countries had done. This has led to a major disruption of the financial sector in those countries. Outside the country thought we shouldn't be there at all. That created the fear of bail-ins in individual countries. The only way that can be done is through the international approach. You must lay down the same rules for all countries in the European Union. Otherwise, you're just gonna have disruptions and shit like in Denmark. I am very much in favour of bail-ins, but that is why I am also a European if it can be done at European level. Otherwise, you're gonna follow some kind of beggar-thy-neighbour policy. We've seen that in the past few years. In fact, the Irish example shows this. Ireland was the first country to decide on a deposit guarantee scheme of €100,000, which meant that all other countries had to go along.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-5.u54	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-5.u55	D66 has always been a strong supporter of the European Banking Union. We are a step further with this treaty. That is why we will be voting in favour of this treaty. But we're not there yet. The discussions about the leverage ratio and the megabanks are coming up. We will continue to encourage the Minister enthusiastically. In recent years things have been going well, so I have a lot of confidence that things will be going well in the coming years as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-5.u56	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the Minister for the clear answer. Sometimes there were some weird interventions from the PVV and SP colleagues. If a bank makes and has to pay off because we want to create a fund, that is not a profit for the bank, no matter how annoying. I understand Mr Merkies' concerns and, in part, those of the CoCos. The question is, how do you make it attractive? But if you put something in a fund to make sure savers can be saved, you can hardly say that that's bank profits. There is therefore no need to charge Vpb on this. Otherwise, I wouldn't know how this works. We had prepared a motion on monitoring, but we understand that there has been correspondence with the General Court and the European Court of Auditors on how far that can go. We would like to receive some details of that. I'm not filing that motion. Perhaps, in response to Mr Merkies' justified question, the Minister will be able to comment on whether, for example, the European Parliament can launch a survey if it believes that something has gone badly wrong in a bank rescue. That could also be the ex-post mechanism to check whether a bank could have been saved. I find it interesting to know what happens if we don't agree. That just seems to be an opportunity and that means that we ourselves remain responsible for all the failing banks in the Netherlands. However, this also means that we do not guarantee others. I had hoped for a short response to what would happen if, for example, the banking system in Greece collapsed over the coming months or year and then went into bail-in capital. Let me honestly say that that is not the most hypothetical case I've ever thought of on this cathedral. According to colleagues, I have sketched some very hypothetical things. I see Mr Nijboer nodding. On another question I will come back at a later moment and that is the question how we will bring things like Google and Apple under this kind of control. I understand that's not what's happening in this treaty. That's the financial innovation. You can find anything you want, but you're gonna have to do it at another time. I have two motions. The first one has already announced Mr Merkies. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that too-big-to-fail banks have played a major negative role in the financial contributions of governments to maintain banks and the financial system;]] [[Whereas any movement which makes banks larger and therefore difficult to settle should be avoided;]] [[calls on the Government to take measures to ensure that no banking merger of banks subject to ECB supervision is authorised until 1 July 2020, unless a merger is necessary to prevent the collapse of a bank,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Omtzigt and Mr Merkies. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34155-6]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-5.u57	This also has to do with the fact that TLAC will only be built in the coming years. The Minister himself spoke of historical things that could still be in the system. They'll come out in the years to come. This does not mean that we are in favour of mergers after 2020, but a merger stop for these 120 banks seems to us to be a very sensible step. Finally, I have another motion. We understand that the SRF of 55 billion will continue to be supplemented to the 55 billion. We hope that this will never be necessary, let me be very clear about that, but we do not think it is weird at all to think about whether that fund should not be filled further. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that during the credit crisis, European governments had to invest around 1500 billion in financial institutions to prevent their collapses;]] [[noting that the SRF will be built into a fund of EUR 55 billion over 8 years and that this could prove to be far from sufficient in the event of a systemic crisis;]] [[having regard to the fact that, after 2024, there is a possibility of continuing for four years to be supplemented to 55 billion if the fund had already had to pay significantly between 2016 and 2024;]] [[calls on the Government to examine whether there are possibilities for the SRF to be significantly larger than 55 billion in 2024 and whether structural additions to the fund can also be made after 2024 in order to create a larger settlement fund and thus reduce the risk to taxpayers of being that ultimate backstop,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Omtzigt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34155-7]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-5.u58	I am happy to give the floor to Mr Harbers. Oh, I see he's dropping his term, as is Mr. Nijboer. Then I give the floor to Minister Dijsselbloem to answer the second-term questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-5.u59	Mr. Chairman. Mr Merkies has asked a number of questions, including a question to which Mr Omtzigt has also joined. This question concerns the supervision of the Resolution Fund, the Resolution Authority and the way in which resolution is to be handled. Initially, as I said, the SRB is accountable at European level, to the European Council, to the European Parliament and to the European Commission, but the Dutch Parliament can also ask the SRB about its policy, application and decision-making. The resolution authority acts independently when a Dutch bank has been settled, but can then be asked by the Dutch Parliament why it did so, how the decision-making process came about and on the basis of which considerations it did so. That possibility exists. This can be done by written questions or by inviting the members of the Board of the SRB to a conversation. Of course, the same applies to the Nederlandsche Bank, which may have been involved in a part of the work or who may have taken the lead in a smaller bank. The Dutch bank can also be questioned afterwards by the Dutch parliament and held to account. Mr Omzigt also referred to the question of what this means for the European Parliament's right of inquiry. The same applies to this: the European Parliament may simply question the resolution authority about the policies pursued, their application and individual settlement cases, but it may ask the resolution authority afterwards. This could be done in the form of an EP survey, but it could also simply be done in written questions or in oral consultations. These possibilities exist. I understand that Mr Omzigt would still like to be informed in writing about the precise powers of the European Court of Auditors. How deep can one look? I have said that we have further informed the General Court, our own Court of Auditors, about this. I do not know whether we have sent this information to the Chamber before, but I say to the Chamber that we will put this on paper again. Mr Merkies has once again asked for the irrevocable payment commitments. He felt that the answer did explain, but that the question why this is really necessary was not answered. Of course, it offers some flexibility to banks: cash or with an IOU, but under strict conditions, covered by sufficient value on the balance sheet and immediately callable. It gives banks some opportunity for flexibility in their payments. These are not the most beautiful elements of it. A Member State has once again asked whether that is possible. This will in turn be subject to criteria, and this will make the regulation more complicated. You didn't have to do it for me. We're gonna see how it works out. In any case, it has qualitative requirements and limitations. Furthermore, Mr Merkies asked about the ex post contribution when the fund is fully filled. Suppose the fund contains the said 55 billion over a number of years; it is completely European, it is mutualized and there are no more national compartments. Once again, the figure is 55 billion; I shall come back to that when I speak about Mr Omtzigt's motion. If the fund would then be empty at once, the maximum ex post contribution can be raised three times within one year from all institutions. The institutions will then simply receive a'relevation' to use that word once again. There's a hood on it to make sure they don't all capseize. If that is not enough, all banks will receive additional charges in the years thereafter, including ex post. That does not depend on what the last piece of money out of the 55 billion was spent on. That is simply the European banking sector, the banking union. All banks will then receive a post-tax to replenish the fund. I hope I understood the question correctly and answered it with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-5.u60	Not quite. I understand there's no more contribution when it's all filled up. That's when it's filled. So what is the annual contribution three times?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-5.u61	Ah, like that! If the fund is fully full and the risks are fully shared at European level between all the banks involved, there can still be a levy if the fund needs to be replenished. The question then is what is three times the maximum. We're gonna have to check it out. That's very much about the details. Suppose a very large post-tax is needed, because a very large gap has been struck in the banks. We want to prevent this amount from being collected in one year and then, in Europe, banks falling down everywhere, because in one year they will receive a huge tax. That's why it's tied to a maximum. Your question is even more detailed. It is three times the normal annual charge, but there is no annual charge anymore, so what is three times the annual charge? I'm just trying to get an answer to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-5.u62	If there is no annual levy, of course we have a problem. Maybe it's a potential maximum charge. The question is, what is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-5.u63	Let me see if we can turn up the technique of the underlying regulation. The most important point is that this additional annual attack, which must be met in one go, is linked to a ceiling for reasons of stability. I'll see if I've had all the loose questions. Mr Van Dijck has asked a number of questions. His core point is that the bad banks are in southern Europe and that we are good. Now we are going to take over the risks and this will make the Dutch banks or the Dutch taxpayers pay for southern Europe. Mr Van Dijck should really look at the list of bank rescues in Europe. The major banking crises for 2008 were in Scandinavia. It's already been mentioned. Sweden, for example, has had a huge banking crisis. The government has had to take over banks massively. Denmark also had a major banking crisis during the banking crisis we saw in Europe. The Netherlands has already been mentioned enough. In the Netherlands, of course, we have had a huge banking crisis. The United Kingdom has had to nationalise the largest banks and they are now gradually being privatised again at enormous cost. Ireland, too, has had a very big banking crisis and is lagging behind with huge public debt, because the banks were all in trouble. So it is not just a matter of southern Europe at all. The Spanish banking sector has been tackled with a banking programme from the ESM of 40 billion in the end. This is relatively modest compared to some of the amounts allocated to the banking sector in Northern Europe. In short, the sketch may sound good, but it is far from the facts. We really have a common interest in increasing the demands, ensuring that as strict as possible is monitored, removing it from national political influence and ensuring that the distance between the supervisor and the own banks is increased. We know, like, "Leave it, because I know you, and your bank's gonna be okay," is also a risk in that relationship. I therefore welcome the fact that this supervisor is further away and that European standards are being assessed. And then there is the extra regulator in Brussels, the competition authority of the European Commission, which ensures that the bail-in rules are strictly applied. After all, if you bypass those rules and you quickly put national money into them, that is, of course, state aid. In short, we have a much better structure than in the past. Mr Omtzigt has given a very adequate response to the issue of the taxpayer who is now co-paying. The fact that banks receive this tax reduces their profits, and that means that they pay less tax. By the way, the profits of Dutch banks are excellent; they pay much more tax than a few years ago. So don't worry about it too much. Mr Van Dijck asked how ABN AMRO would have been if we had had these instruments at the time. Was ABN AMRO saved entirely differently? Yeah, absolutely. Then at that time there would have just been a bail-in on the investors, the owners, of ABN AMRO. Therefore, that 8% would have been sufficient to cover ABN AMRO's losses.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-5.u64	I asked that to see if a bank under the SRM could still be nationalized at all. Or is that never gonna apply again? And how does the SRM deal with nationalized banks? ABN ARMO is one, but more banks are nationalized. In the future, therefore, can a bank still be nationalised under the SRM and how does the SRM deal with nationalised banks?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-5.u65	I don't see banks being nationalized that easily. It should be small banks, but we now have a toolbox for reducing bank losses to the private owners of banks. So there is no longer the simple mechanism: we are taking over the bank and we are going to recapitalise it ourselves. We just have a different set of instruments now. So I don't see nationalisation happening. In the case of small banks, this would not be necessary from the point of view of stability. Large banks are rescued and strengthened at European level, either through bail-in, or they become, if they can't do it anymore, and they can't be saved, settled and closed. Of course, this has also happened in Cyprus, where a bail-in has been applied and one of the two major banks has been settled and closed. The second question was whether banks that have already been nationalised can be saved at European level. In my view, that is a theoretical issue, but I am going to think about it now. The same would apply to this too. The state will then be bailed out and the shares will lose all or part of their value. That's how the losses are borne. So I think it works exactly the same way. Mr Van Dijck asked why only 8% was assumed and why this was limited. That was finally the outcome of the political negotiations. As far as we are concerned, stricter requirements had been imposed and we would have gone straight into the whole hierarchy. The point was that certain European countries that already have a national resolution fund came up with the question of when they could use it. They wanted to be the first to bet and that would only be about bail-in afterwards. That's what we didn't do. Because of the level playing field, there must always be a deep bail-in first. If the problems are even bigger, you can use your fund. That is the outcome of these political negotiations. Mr Van Dijck also asked whether the 25 billion banks still had to collect at the end of the stress test were actually collected. The ECB shall monitor this and make arrangements by bank. The banks have been given a certain amount of time. I can't individually indicate what that time was, but that was more a matter of x-months than years. So the ECB will see to it. If we fail and the deadline expires, the bank will be settled and a resolution will be put forward. In any case, time is given to collect and recapitalise that money. Then I'll come to the motions. The motion in part No. 6 by Mr Omtzigt and Mr Merkies actually says that you should not allow mergers of large banks over the next five years. Our approach is a slightly different one. You need a legal basis for this and it needs to be laid down in European legislation, whereby the supervisory authority that already has to authorise mergers and acquisitions, especially in large banks, is given an additional criterion, namely financial stability. We are also looking at the position of the resolution authority because we believe that before such consent is given for a merger or a takeover, she should be able to say: if this happens then that means for your resolution plan, your capital requirements and your MREL the following... And that can be prohibitive. The resolution authority may say: you are creating such a complicated business that we simply do not want it from the point of view of resolution, and if it is allowed by the supervisor, then we are going to impose extremely stringent and profound demands up to and including buffer requirements that we as a resolution authority can impose. That's what we do. That legal basis needs to be established now, and we are now also discussing it with the European Commission on the basis of our position paper. I will report to the Chamber as soon as possible on the developments and progress in them. I think this motion is too short and there is no legal basis for it either. So we should create an ad hoc basis for that, too. I am in favour of putting in a good legal base right away. I therefore advise against this motion. The motion in part No. 7 by Mr Omtzigt actually says that the fund is too small, which I have also read a lot in the Anglo-Saxon financial press. However, all those who say that ignore the fact that, of course, we already have high capital requirements for this, as well as strict supervision, risk weights and the bail-in mechanism, which really prevents us from running to the fund and can say: can I catch for a moment? So my assumption is that the number of times the fund will be called upon will be very limited. I can say to Mr Omtzig that we are obviously going to follow this closely, especially in the construction phase. At some point, we have a fund of 55 billion. If it turns out that there are constant crises and that mechanisms are not working and that 55 billion are constantly under pressure, then that is the time to say: perhaps we need a bigger fund. Even then, I would argue: apparently our bail-in rules are not hard enough and strict enough, so let's take a look at that. I really think that the fund is an emergency tool that has almost symbolic effect in order to build further confidence among financial parties that want to invest in the banking sector. I believe that all the instruments in question should be sufficient. So I'd like to dissuade this motion. I think it would be unwise at this point to look at a larger fund than the 55 billion or bet on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-5.u66	This issue is in a hurry, so there will be a vote tomorrow afternoon on this agreement and the motions for resolutions that have been tabled. I would like to thank the Minister of Finance for his presence in our home and for his reply.
