ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-eerstekamer-10.u1	I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Security and Justice to the Upper House. Unfortunately, I have not yet been able to receive him personally, which is common practice when a new member of the government takes up office during a cabinet term. This is the first time that the Secretary of State for Security and Justice has been present in this position and is defending a bill. I congratulate him once again on his appointment and wish him a great deal of wisdom in the performance of his duties and in the debate that is now taking place.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-eerstekamer-10.u2	Mr. Chairman. We have already been able to meet the Secretary of State as members of the I&A/JHA Committee and for V&J, as it is called here, but on behalf of my group I would like to congratulate him on his appointment in this House and wish him every success in the work he has undertaken. As regards the legislative proposal currently under discussion, the CDA Group endorses the objective of the proposed reporting obligation and other obligations relating to data leaks or serious incidents in the field of any business involving electronic data processing. We see this goal as increasing public confidence in digital data processing. In addition, the proposed provisions should make it possible to learn lessons from data leaks. During the preparation of this legislative proposal, an extensive process was followed with twice an opinion from the Council of State. As a result, several buttons have been cut through. We do not always consider the results to be the most beautiful, but we accept that this time we have opted for administrative enforcement. The supervisor may impose severe sanctions, which the chairman of the College of Protection has sometimes called personal data, not wrongly, "Neelie Kroeslike Fines." My group is generally not in favour of granting supervisors heavy sanctioning powers, but given that these powers are in line with what other supervisors, such as the Consumer & Market Authority, may be allowed to do, that the breach of the standard may cause very serious harm and that European legislation is soon to be expected to impose such sanctions throughout the European Union, it will go along with this proposal. In the preliminary report we have asked five questions, on which well-developed answers have come. Hail for that. One of these questions, concerning the 'indeterminateness' of the standard to be observed by the citizen, we would like to go back to it. We all know that a standard to be enforced by means of sanctions must be sufficiently clear, predictable and known in accordance with the lex certa principle. For the time being, we are not convinced that this is the case in the proposed Article 34a. Indeed, the standard means that it is "an infringement of security which leads to the significant risk of serious adverse effects or has serious adverse effects on the protection of personal data'. Now, while the College can provide personal data protection for the imposition of the related administrative fine, it can first provide binding indications in the event that the offence has not been committed intentionally, the fact remains that there is uncertainty for the citizen as to exactly when there is a breach of a standard. This can lead to an overreaction of the citizen. The citizen then goes, "better safe than sorry" in every case of doubt, but says if he "just" ignores it, as we often see with the cookie notifications. Then the standard gives rise to the opposite, i.e. to 'undercompliance'. The Secretary of State is optimistic about that. He assumes that the citizen will make a reasoned consideration as to whether a specific data breach which comes to his knowledge falls within the scope of the reporting obligation. My group believes that this should be clarified in advance. It therefore asks the Secretary of State for an interpretation of at least the "significant risk of serious adverse effects," as defined in Article 34a (1), which provides more clarity and guidance. What exactly is meant here? In law and case law, in questions of uncertainty, we see a distinction between "consistent probability," the "significant probability," which is used on a conditional basis, or "what is reasonably expected." In the case of evidence standards, to express a degree of probability, concepts such as "incompetence," "a reasonable degree of certainty" are used, which you read mainly in summary judgments, or "over reasonable doubt." What level are we supposed to be at now? With the view that every vague standard needs interpretation, the Secretary of State cannot get away from this. It is a legal provision to be maintained with a punitive sanction. We therefore ask the Secretary of State to provide some kind of interpretative explanation on how these vague concepts should be used in Article 34a. The citizen needs a concrete handle. That's what's missing now. We look forward to the Minister's answer to this question with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-eerstekamer-10.u3	Mr. Chairman. I thank Mrs Gerkens for allowing me to speak for her. I also congratulate the Secretary of State on behalf of my group. I wish him good luck. The PvdA Group thanks the Secretary of State for the responses to its questions contained in the reply. In the preliminary report, it indicated that it has a positive assessment of the possibility for the College to impose an administrative fine on personal data protection. The obligation to keep an overview of potential or really serious leaks, which the reporter himself has reported to the supervisor, and the reporting obligation itself is a good thing. However, it has argued that in most cases the issue of a possible prior binding designation is indicated. This need is mainly due to the lack of clarity as to whether a data breach should actually be reported to the Personal Data Protection Board or to data subjects. My group believes that this is the weakness of the legislative proposal. Her questions therefore related to this. That is why it is now up to her to assess whether the answers of the Secretary of State have helped her further. Frankly, that has not been the case. The type of data breach that is required to be reported is described in the legislative proposal as follows: I quote the same words as Mr Franken: 'an infringement of security leading to the significant risk of serious adverse effects or serious adverse effects on the protection of personal data'. Both the term "significant" and the term "serious" require operationalisation. Unfortunately, in the reply, we have not been able to find any further specification of these terms, other than the observation that the Personal Data Protection Board is going to draw up guidelines. We do not know these guidelines, so we cannot assess whether they facilitate the assessment to report or not. We would like to ask the Secretary of State if he can tell us anything about these guidelines and their extent and whether he will send them to the First Chamber as soon as they are known, so that she can form an opinion on them in due course. Moreover, in response to questions from D66, the Secretary of State gives a number of examples of cases where and when not to report. I have, of course, taken a good look at this, but my observation was that the nuances for when or when should be reported are so small that the fear of the Labour Party has only increased that I apologize here too to Mr Franken 'better safe than sorry' will become the practice. After all, on reporting there is no penalty and on not reporting there is a penalty. We fear that this will lead to a boom in notifications. The PvdA Group would like personal data to be requested from the College for Protection to report annually on the nature and extent of data leak notifications. Finally. In response to a question from a colleague of the CDA, the Secretary of State has included an overview of current or upcoming reporting obligations relating to the management of the private or public sector. If I counted correctly, there are eleven. So there are 11 reporting obligations. The Secretary of State gives that overview, for which I am grateful, but does not draw any conclusions. The PvdA Group would like to hear from the Secretary of State if he was surprised by this number. After all, there is a new Secretary of State. Maybe he also thought: Ooh, there are a lot of them! Was he surprised by this number? Does he think it is still feasible for companies to keep all these reporting obligations together? I'm gonna close positive. The other points raised by the PvdA Group, such as administrative penalty decisions rather than or in addition to an administrative penalty, criminalisation instead of an administrative penalty and the level of the fine, have been answered with great satisfaction by the Secretary of State. We are anxiously awaiting his answer to the questions we have now put.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-eerstekamer-10.u4	Mr. Chairman. I am contributing on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance. I, too, would like to welcome the new Secretary of State to the First Chamber. I hope that I can work with him as well as with his predecessor, Mr Teeven. First of all, I would like to thank the Secretary of State for answering our questions. The Group of the Party of European Socialists welcomes this bill, which, in our view, has been delayed for far too long. This long waiting period has also made us a little strange: it is not such a difficult subject and it is very important for the protection of the internet user that data leaks are reported. From the answer given by the Secretary of State, I should like to conclude with caution that he too believes that this road has been a long one. However, my group still wanted to discuss this with the Secretary of State. This debate is about the quality of the implementation of this bill. Before that, let's look at the why of this bill. In 2007, a leak at Tel Sell stole credit card data from over 30,000 customers. Months later, this became known. The company had not informed its customers because it was not its responsibility, so the company found. This was one of the first major leaks that became known. In fact, everyone agrees that when there is a leak, this should be reported, but on how and what does my group disagree with this cabinet. The delay is understandable for this. The legislative proposal must be enforceable and it must be supported in its implementation. And let's be honest, it's not pleasant for any organization right now to report that the digital system has been broken into, let alone to tell you that data has been stolen. Many people still have a taboo on the fact that burglary is possible. During the past Easter weekend, the storage company Hatton Garden Safe Deposit took 270 million euros. That was spectacular, because this was known as one of the best secure companies. Meters-thick steeld concrete was pierced. Offline and online, therefore, there is no such thing as absolute security, but the awareness of it is still low. There are companies that are doing their best to keep security high, but there are also those that deal with security shamefully. I mentioned in the report already the major pension administrator who offered the full pension transfer online, including bsn, participant's income, partner's income, address details and so on, all over an unprotected line. Daycares use online forms for registration with a bsn over an unsecured line. I don't even talk about the information that is asked of me if I want to receive a simple newsletter or leave my data at a web shop or on a contact form. Often these are unnecessary data, such as birth dates and so on, with an additional risk of further data leaks. I see three mindsets that need to be changed. First of all, that is the mindset of the provider of the service in the field of the Personal Data Protection Act. This law is not yet sufficiently visible to the providers. There is certainly still a battle ahead for SMEs, but unfortunately also for larger organisations. I could give you many examples here. Secondly, it concerns the mindset of the same security providers. Because we are dealing with technology, providers are still asking far too little explicitly about security. They assume, of course, that the website builder is watching them, but that is not generally the case. Even if this is done, it is difficult for a provider to determine whether the requested security is offered. I experience that hosts do not update their software on the server. Then the offerer thinks he's safe, but it turns out he's not. Thirdly, it concerns the mindset of the user, who must realize that a leak is not an unwillingness of an organization and that he must always change his password when reporting a leak, and preferably more often. When I really want to take a service, but security is insufficient, I email the company with that remark. A secure internet is also working together. In the report my group mentioned last summer's Heartbleed leak and the way in which the user was informed about it. That's how I knew my email address belonged to the hack, but not where the leak was and whether I should take appropriate measures. I was only advised to change my passwords. I have a lot, a lot, and I wouldn't even know if I would have had all the passwords. This impasse led me to do nothing, some sort of Catch-22. Here we are touching on a delicate issue of implementation. My group agrees with the government that warning should only be given if there is a possibility of theft of personal data, but the way in which this is done and when exactly this is done is unclear and left to the supplier. It must always report the hack to the CBP, but the bill does not guarantee that the provider will also properly inform its customers. For example, no adequate warning was given at the Heartbleed leak because then it would be known which websites were vulnerable at that time, but I am sure such a leak was quickly closed and could have been warned to the users. Thus, the legislative proposal improves the possibilities of the CBP and, to some extent, the awareness of the provider, but still protects far too little the end user to whom it is ultimately done in this legislative proposal. In the report, the State Secretary refers to a letter to the President of the Lower House of States General of 13 October 2014 on the Hold-case. In that letter, the Minister for Security and Justice undertook to explore further "how the experience of this case can be secured in a structural facility to be developed with the necessary legal safeguards'. Can the Secretary of State tell me when this structural provision and the associated guarantees will be developed? This seems to me to be a welcome addition to the bill. Could such a proposal be sent to the House of Representatives before the end of this year? I'd like to get a response from the Secretary of State. I'd like to come back to the awareness. Indeed, the ECP is fully engaged with SMEs to improve digital security there. I know the program, and it's solid and successful, but the range remains small. The average provider really has no idea of the Personal Data Protection Act. For providers, it is only logical that they need naw data for the transmission of their items. "Why are they so sensitive to privacy?', That's how they reason. Is the Secretary of State prepared to send a single letter to all companies and organisations registered with the Chamber of Commerce in which he refers to this law and to the Personal Data Protection Act? He may then refer to the ECP programme in this letter. With this we could strike a huge blow. I'd like to hear the Secretary of State's response. There's just one small question for me. In the reply, the Secretary of State says that it is up to the supplier himself to assess how long he should keep the list of infringements. It contains the same fine as the non-compliance with the reporting obligation. You can't do that. There's quite a fine at stake. Document retention runs from two years to life. My group would suggest that at least the CBP should indicate how long this information should be kept, so that it is clear to everyone at the start of this law. I look forward to the answer.
