ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u1	Mr. Chairman. Most speakers logically addressed the long history, not only of this law, but of the whole search in the Netherlands for a good way to arrange housing for low-income people. This is a constitutional task which, as Mrs De Vries pointed out, was already taken up by private initiative in the last century. Over time, the State has been given an ever larger and often a different role. A very decisive moment in this was the brutal operation of the then Secretary of State Heerma. Mr Duivetteijn was able to tell us from his own experience that Secretary of State Heerma, but also the Chamber, as a follow-up to this rather financial brutality operation, wanted to regulate a number of things well, including the task area, the supervision of housing corporations, the position of tenants and the democratic embedding. Although that wish was there then and also lived with a large number of my predecessors, it has so far not been possible to lay this down properly in legislation and regulations. A number of incidents showed how necessary it was to define it more clearly. Although by far the majority of housing corporations have done their useful work well and carefully, there have been incidents that have wrongly given the whole sector an infected name. Of course we can all remember what happened with the ss Rotterdam and the campus of Servatius, for example. We know the many examples of derailed commercial activities. At the same time, in many places corporations were busy doing good work, with good housing and urban and village renewal. But the number of incidents was too large to see them as isolated incidents. Something was not well regulated in the supervision, in the definition of the task area and in the democratic embedding. This was an important reason for adopting legislation. The incidents were so far-reaching and led to so much commotion that the House of Representatives said: this calls for a parliamentary inquiry to get a much clearer picture of what exactly went wrong, why that went wrong and what recommendations it should lead to. The results of this survey can be taken into account in this debate. They have also played an important role in the debate with the House of Representatives. It is not the case that all the conclusions have been taken literally into account in the proposal. But the often staggering image that emerged from that survey does play a role in the design of this law. In addition to this survey, European legislation also plays a role, as well as the commitments made by former minister Van der Laan in 2009. In any event, in order to prevent State aid and to promote a fair playing field in the housing market, this results in the need for at least administrative separation in housing corporations. The Committee of Inquiry came to a very sharp conclusion. Not only did she say that supervision should be better regulated and that the position of tenants should be better regulated, but she also said that a housing corporation should really only deal with social housing, in summary: "non-DAEB is not doing'. Mr Van Dijk also mentioned that term. This would mean that, for example, in areas of urban and village renewal it would no longer be possible for housing corporations to build middle-priced housing even if the market does not want to do so. I had already made an appointment with Aedes in 2013. I also informed the First Chamber of this in writing. I have established a large number of aspects of the policy on housing corporations with Aedes. Part of that was that I would not make such a sharp cut as the Committee of Inquiry indicated, but that I would leave room, where necessary, for urban or village renewal and where the market would not be able to do so, I refer to the market test which has also been laid down in the law. Thus neighbourhoods can be mixed and have a healthy structure. I also agreed with Aedes that this could go on two routes. One of those routes is the legal separation. In this route, there are most guarantees for the security of social assets and therefore also for the tenants. When things go wrong in commercial activities, the tenants do not have to pay the bill. A legal separation would therefore offer the most security. Since this would not be desirable for all corporations, I also offered the possibility of administrative separation in the agreement with Aedes. In addition, the tenants are less well protected. In the end, there is one debtor vis-à-vis the lenders, with the mixed social rental stock and the free sector rental stock. I also stated in the agreement that there would be more safeguards in the case of administrative separation: the market test and heavier supervision. There are more guarantees that it will not go wrong. In the past things have gone wrong too often. In this way we assume the ominous title of the survey report, far from home, and can ensure that the tenants get back into position and that there is protection against wild commercial adventures, without making urban renewal completely impossible. In this way, we can ensure that we create clarity for housing corporations, thus creating a clear investment climate. This is very important for the construction sector, because investment plans in the peripheral area between SGEIs and non-DAEB are still waiting for such a law to be adopted. For all these important target groups in the Netherlands, the people who are looking for a home or have a job there, it is very important that we now create clarity and that we can bring the housing sector from "far from home" back home. I would like to answer the questions put to me in a number of chapters. First of all, I will address the questions that have been asked about the field of work and how we deal with European legislation. Then I come to the questions that have been asked about supervision. Then I answer the questions about the position of the tenant and the position of the municipality. A number of questions have been asked about the AMvB that the Chamber has received from me in a pending procedure. I will discuss this with the House of Representatives. This concerns the appropriate allocation and the transfer pricing. Then I come to the questions about housing cooperation. Then I answer the various questions around the wide area living and renting. First of all, I come to the field of work. Mr Van Dijk asked why I did not opt for the sharp demarcation of the Committee of Inquiry, namely: do not do anything about non-DAEB. I have agreed with Aedes that, if the market does not want to do it demonstrably, we should also continue to be able to build mixed under a number of strict conditions in the context of urban and village renewal. That's why we do offer that space in this law. Mrs De Vries then asked a number of questions about the space that is still being offered and the guarantees that I put to it. I'll take one step back before I go into the exact terms. It is a choice of housing corporations whether they want to continue to do non-DAEB. I have also been to corporations that have often said before this debate: we simply think that SGEIs is our core task. Mrs De Vries mentioned, among other things, the Wooncompagnie in Noord-Holland. De Wooncompagnie told me, when I recently opened a complex there, that she herself made that decision a while ago. I have also been with corporations in Venlo or Zwolle, for example, who have said themselves: if a district of which we own all the land is being restructured at the moment, we will transfer part of the land to a construction company that does the free sector part and then we will build the social rental part ourselves. Without the need for legislation, many organisations themselves have made that assessment. If a housing corporation says that it also wants to be able to build the non-DAEB part again, I want to offer room for that under conditions............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... If a housing corporation opts for legal separation, then less guarantees are needed on my part, because funding of the non-DAEB subsidiary is only a financing to that e.g. If things go wrong unexpectedly, then it can't pull the whole social leg along. This also means that as a guardian of the social housing and the common power that is in it, I need to take less care of it in that case. If a corporation nevertheless chooses to separate administratively and build non-DAEB, it can, but then the clause in the agreement with Aedes also enters into force. However, additional safeguards are needed to prevent the inclusion of the social rental sector. In this case, moreover, the European Commission's market distortion test will also weigh more heavily. The guarantee which is intended for social hire is, because it is a single legal person, in fact also applies to activities which are not actually social rents. Technically, this is not the case, but every creditor knows that if 90% of the balance sheet is subject to a state guarantee through the WSW, and something goes wrong in the last 10% of the commercial activities, he would expect to be able to lift that State guarantee. Unfortunately, that is also the way things have often been in recent years. What additional guarantees do we provide in such a case? It is therefore purely administratively separate and non-DAE activities. First of all, that is the market test. If it comes out that the market does not want to do it, then it may be built and an internal loan may be made on it, if necessary. In that case too, the first preference is an external loan, to create a fair playing field with other providers. If, however, that is not possible, an internal loan may be made, but I am bound by European rules on cross-subsidisation. The funds that can be used for this must not exceed the annual profit and they must be the proceeds of the sale, minus loans secured by the Guarantee Fund, so that you also really know that they are free resources. That is something else, Mrs De Vries asked for rather than the own resources policy of the Guarantee Fund. The Guarantee Fund applies its own resources policy in the sense that a guarantee should only be used if it is really necessary, so if there are free resources, then they should be used first of all to repay secured loans. That is not what the Guarantee Fund is doing to comply with European regulations, but to ensure that there is not an unnecessary amount of guarantee. The conditions regarding the size of the secured loans and that they must be revenues from the years after 2012, so that you cannot count back indefinitely, I have incorporated into the law in order to prevent us from contravening European state aid schemes. A second European condition concerns overcompensation. Mrs De Vries asked for this too. That is, in fact, a test of whether the WSW guarantee, in fact a state guarantee, through contributions of often land below cost, compensates more than is strictly necessary to carry out those social housing tasks. On this point, we have included a calculation rule in the AMvB, which actually sells the realised return at the gross initial return (BAR), as is customary in the real estate sector. However, we have also indicated that corporations have the possibility to apply for an alternative method of calculation of that overcompensation, if they consider that in their case, because they are located in a particular area or because they have a special composition of the housing stock, the standard calculation rule is not appropriate. That is why we have actually included a very broad-based tailor-made article.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u2	The Minister is right on this point. That's what it says nicely. The only thing I was a little worried about is this. Suppose you have a corporation that is doing very well to keep its own business expenses as low as possible. That could mean holding net more in hand to do something about the housing. Can that mean that at the end of the year, a corporation that does nothing and that ensures that its operating expenses are still very high, will have less positive results on the account than if it had started to save enormously? I'd find that a perverse incentive.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u3	Yes. I think that is a fair question, but we are preventing it along another route. First of all, Aedes himself took the initiative there I also commend Aedes for publishing the average business burden in the sector, including the participating corporations, and how these charges relate to that average and to each other. The corporations are not all participating yet, but I have good hope that this will eventually be the case. In addition, I have also included in the AMvB a standard of living expenses, partly on the basis of an amendment by the Christian Union in the House of Representatives. Therefore, where there might be an incentive from the overcompensation rule to spend more if the return is good, there is an opposite incentive based on the Aedes benchmark and the standards that we are going to apply to spending on viability. That is why I think we can deal with Mrs De Vries' concern along this route. Mr Duivetteijn and Mr Kuiper asked whether mixed projects, particularly in the context of housing and care, could still be carried out, even if they were mixed SGEI and non-DAEB projects. As I pointed out in my introduction, there is no prohibition of non-DAEB at all, only it depends on the design of the corporations whether or not they are legally separate or not how strict we will be in supervision. For a legally separate corporation, there is much room for non-DAEB activities at all. In the case of a non-legally separate corporation, a market test will have to be carried out in non-DAEB activities. However, if there is no market interest and the project is financially justified, such a project is possible. Care homes are explicitly part of the task area of the corporations. I see no obstacle to that in this law. By the way, I would think it was undesirable if there was one.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u4	Let me get this straight. Let me go back to the project I mentioned in the first term when we were talking here. You have a small nursing home. A housing association that takes on its social task very well has started a project to build one apartment complex for social rental, along with another apartment complex for sale. With the proceeds of that sale, the foundation costs of the apartment project for social rental have been reduced, which allowed the rents to be below the capping limit and the residents to make use of rent subsidies. It's very important in my area. The question is: how can I know the answer to such a question? Because in such a project, how do you finance something with the sale of the houses after 2012, and how do you see that in relation to the part of non-DAEB investments?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u5	This is a non-DAEB investment, so it can be invested in a legally separate corporation and its proceeds elsewhere. Indeed, the housing corporation would be the 100% shareholder of the non-DAEB subsidiary. In an administratively separate housing corporation it is allowed after a market test, but if there is no market participant who wants to do it, it can still be done. In general, however, I would like to comment on the desire to use earnings from non-DAEB activities in SGEI activities. I know this is the wish a lot. I also know that it has been successful, but one of the surveys that took place around the survey was the Court of Auditors' inquiry into whether money was earned on balance from these SGEI activities. The General Court reached a staggering conclusion and found that by 2012 more than 1 billion had been lost. The Central Fund added another 300 million additional losses in 2013, the losses in that year on non-DAEB activities. I'm not building up a whole bunch of safeguards for nothing. There's a lot of money lost. That is money that is being taken away from social housing, and yet it disappears into activities that we really have to ask ourselves very seriously whether we want to do so in this way. Hence these guarantees. It is not going to be impossible, but these additional guarantees, as recent history has learned, are really needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u6	I'd like to clarify something. If a corporation needs to engage in non-DAEB activities, it can do so 100% in a separate e.g. There is no control over how that is developed. That is what I can conclude from the Minister's words, regardless of the warning that it is a commercial activity which naturally carries risks. Is this interpretation correct?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u7	The wording that there is no control at all is not correct. First of all, it must be housing activities and, secondly, there will have to be a capital contribution in cash and possibly also in the form of existing assets in a non-DAEB subsidiary. Moreover, such a split operation requires the supervisory approval of the supervisor.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u8	I am not talking about the split itself, because I can imagine that this is a complicated situation and I have an idea of the practical solutions that have been chosen. What makes me clearer from the Minister's explanatory statement than from the text is that a corporation that is active and should focus on that limited area of work can also organise and take on non-DAEB activities completely independently and without brake if it is in an independent entity that carries commercial risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u9	Here too, I would not use the phrase 'without brake'.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u10	Where in the law is the brake arranged? That is something I would like to be explained in more detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u11	First of all, that is at the time of splitting up. This will almost always involve a corporation that has made the trade-off to choose a legal division and to place the SGEI ownership in the separate non-DAEB subsidiary, with possibly also a piece of SGEI ownership in order to complete the balance sheet. That split requires approval, because we want to see whether there is an unhealthy withdrawal of popular property here. If that were to happen at a later date, it would be a major investment decision for the supervisor to oversee. That is why I respond to the words "without brakes" or "without restrictions." There are, but then a market test doesn't have to take place every time. There is then self-financing in a separate daughter, without a WSW guarantee.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u12	Finally, Mr Duivetteijn!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u13	I am merely trying to clarify where this monitoring of non-DAEB activities is regulated.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u14	It says in the law that there is also supervision of the majority daughters.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u15	So also on the commercial entities?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u16	The non-DAEB? Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u17	And also on the scope of the commercial activities?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u18	They have to be housing-related, but yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u19	That is an important point I would like to make.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u20	Mrs De Vries gave an example of a complex with a small part of social rent and a small part of commercial rent, in which the commercial part is also used to keep the rents low. I hear the Minister say that in the past it has often proved to be an illusion that you can finance with commercial social rent. I would like to assume that from him, but I think that was more at an transcendent level and it mainly concerned large, loose commercial projects. Does this also apply to these small combined projects? If you get a market test done, you get it done on the commercial part. I can well imagine that there are parties to develop that commercial part, but that seems to me to be the consequence that the social part does not come off the ground. Can the Minister comment on that for a moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u21	The first question is whether the losses in non-DAE activities have been only large projects. No, that's very wide spread across larger and smaller corporations. Every year, the Central Fund publishes which corporations are supervised and there are also small corporations, for example, which have developed residential properties. In Slochteren, a corporation was put under supervision because it developed residential properties that were not in demand. It is a palette of large and small corporations.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u22	My question was something else. It was not so much about large or small corporations, but also about this type of mixed projects, in which part of the social and part commercial projects were built.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u23	I cannot cut it that precisely, but I can see that a great deal of losses have been incurred on commercial activities in nationwide over many years and in corporations of a very different character on balance. That is why I am imposing such strict conditions. The second question concerned the market test in non-DAEB activities. Non-DAEB activities in a non-legally divided corporation are permitted in the context of urban or village renewal. That is formulated as demolition/new construction, because when it comes to the cultivation of uncultivated pastures there is no reason to think of why you should do that. Then the corporation can do part of the street and one commercial party can do the other part. In the case of demolition/new construction, however, the situation may arise that there is a post-war monotonous neighborhood that would like to restructure the corporation and in part also want to reduce some more expensive rentals. Then there will be a market test. If a market participant wants to do so, there are no proceeds that the corporation could use from it other than the proceeds of any sale of land if the corporation owns the land. That is, of course, the downside of the fact that the losses from these activities are not at the expense of the corporation and thus of the tenants. In doing so, I hope that I have answered Mr Duivetteijn's question as to whether there is still enough room within this law to invest in vulnerable cities and neighbourhoods. Through this decision tree I am convinced that this can be done. That is also why I depart from the conclusion of the parliamentary committee of inquiry on this point. Mr Schouwenaar asked me whether the concept of 'liability' should be defined more clearly, because a number of misses, a number of incidents took place under the heading of 'viability'. In this connection, I refer to the Ship in Rotterdam, where this defence was conducted. Indeed, in the law, that concept is much more comprehensive than it has been up to now. It has been explicitly said that it must be about investments situated around the possession of corporations. It should also be part of performance agreements with municipalities and tenants. I have just said in reply to Mrs De Vries' question that a maximum amount of living expenses is included in the General Measure of Management. So yes, that was one of the subjects that needed to be better framed, not with the aim of making it unnecessarily difficult or impossible, but rather to avoid excesses. Mr Duivetteijn asked whether we would not find ourselves in a situation where mass social property and social housing would be sold. Over the past year, a few large transactions have been made in the press. Without exception, these were corporations in a restructuring situation. Vestia was, of course, the large housing investment fund, where the Central Fund, as a supervisor for preventing further damage to housing and the further increase of the restructuring levy that is pressing on all corporations, said that it had to sell property in order to mitigate the damage. For sales outside clean-up situations we have firm sales rules. They are much stricter for social property, for SGEI ownership, than for free sector ownership. In any case, a view of the municipality is always mandatory. The sales rules are the most flexible for sales to the incumbent tenant, but in all other cases rules have been laid down, by the way, without making those sales impossible. It can fit into local housing policy that a corporation sells part of its stock, perhaps the more expensive stock, because it needs the proceeds to invest in the core task, social stock, new construction or maintenance. I don't want to make that completely impossible. Mr Duivetteijn specifically asked how we ensure that housing corporations continue to contribute to housing status holders, refugees with recognised status. I recognize that because of the greater influx at the moment, housing in many municipalities is going to become more clingy. At the same time, the housing of status holders concerns only a small proportion of the stock released annually. Nationally, that's about 6%. It is therefore not the case that in absolute terms there is too little supply of freed homes. It is true that there is tension in a number of municipalities. That is why we started a project together with the Association of Dutch Municipalities and the Centraal Organ (Centraal Organ) for asylum seekers, in which we, together with municipalities and corporations, look at how we can facilitate this housing. One of the obvious options is to let status holders live together in a house. Many come without a family and are willing to share a home. So it is pinching, but I do not see that there would now be large-scale unwillingness of corporations and municipalities to participate in housing. Mr Van Boxtel asked whether sufficient progress was being made in transforming business premises, particularly offices, into housing. At the time, we specifically included a reduction in the landlord's tax. It is indeed an important part of my policy to promote this, not just along the route of the landlord's tax. We have also simplified building regulations so that the regulations in force at the time of building can be applied instead of the new regulations. We've made temporary rental easier. This indeed leads to results. Yesterday, in Delft, I was allowed to open a former sister house of a psychiatric institution which had been transformed on the initiative of students themselves into student accommodation using the possibility of temporary rental, making the building available to students for at least ten years. Fortunately, that was fast and can also be cost-effective. The House of Representatives has also asked me to examine the possibility of not applying the housing valuation system in the event of transformation to encourage the construction of smaller apartments in former offices, especially in the more expensive cities. I shall shortly outline the possibilities for doing so to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u24	One fine example from Delft is beautiful, but I would like to see it translated more at macro level. Indeed, we have partially exempted it from the landlord's tax. Sometimes I read reports in the press, often in Het Financieele Dagblad, about really huge percentages of vacancy: 30%, 35% of the existing office space. One example in Delft doesn't close that hole. I would find it interesting to know if the Minister can keep up a bit with us or really do something about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u25	Mr Van Boxtel will forgive me if I still enjoy a bit of students who have taken the initiative to transform such a building, but I also agree with him that this is a statistical sample. I can now mention all kinds of beautiful examples from Nieuwegein, The Hague or other places where things are going well. In any case, I do not have an idea of the total numbers in the Netherlands, but I would like to admit that when I can get that up the table, I share that with the Chamber. We have a support team that assists municipalities to make this transformation possible, so there is no doubt more digitised information available than I can provide by heart. I'll give it to the Chamber in writing. I'm gonna move on to the supervisory questions. Mr Kuiper wanted to hear from me again why I chose not to shape supervision as a Zbo, but as I propose in the law as an inspection with great independence, but ultimately under ministerial responsibility. He also referred to government policy to reduce the number of ZBOs. That is indeed a reason. In addition, the Council of State stated in its opinion on the first version of this law, still of my predecessor, Spies, that in his view it was not logical to give a social housing supervisor the form of a ZBO. The Council of State said: independent supervision, but ultimately also ministerial responsibility as we know it, for example, with the education inspection or the health inspection. I followed the Council of State in that. On the basis of the report of the Committee of Inquiry, the House of Representatives, with an amendment by Mr Verhoeven, then said: we are following the Minister in the status of inspection rather than Zbo, but we want to see, in line with the survey, that there is only one supervisor and not a financial supervisor, the Central Fund, and a people's housing supervisor. The latter had previously been placed in the Ministry, but I had already taken the initiative to place it at the Inspection Environment and Transport. Then, of course, the question arose as to what would be a logical place. On the basis of the "independence" balance, I find it logical to place an inspection which is not directly under me, and the ILT falls under my colleague Schultz's jurisdiction. I have made it very clear that I am politically accountable to the inspection. I am not going to judge individual cases, but I am appealing to the overall functioning and to the available budget. The inspection is also very recognizable to the outside world as a residential authority with its own stationery. The lead can come out on its own. The placement at the Leefenvironment and Transport Inspection also makes sense from the point of view of business management. The Central Fund currently has about 80 employees. This number will increase a bit as a result of this law, but it is a size in which it is difficult to do all kinds of supporting functions in-house with a full-time staff member. In any case, good ICT support will be expensive, but probably not optimal at such a scale. In a very important task as a special investigation, which also occurs in the housing corporation sector, it is still very important if you can ride on the particular detection of such a larger inspection. In this way, I wanted to find the right balance between independence, also very recognizable to the outside world, and to participate in business management in the expertise and efficiency of the big picture. Mr Duivetteijn's question was whether...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u26	Has the inspection been completed?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u27	I was just about to answer your question about independence. Mr Duivetteijn asked: can the authority really give substance to the supervisory framework? A number of safeguards are laid down by law, so regardless of the positioning in which I and my successor are already somewhat distant. It has been established that the Authority can carry out, report on, and draw up its annual plan completely independently. The rules imply that the powers to impose sanctions are delegated to the home authorities. There is therefore no need to ask the Minister whether a fine or other measure can be imposed. More than in the past, this route involves a genuinely independent competence of the new home authority. Mr Duivetteijn also asked how we ensure coherence. The amendment of the House of Representatives brings together both inspections. I'm good with that. The old separation and the friction that may arise from it are past tense. A lot of questions have been asked about strengthening the tenant's position. One of the main conclusions of the Committee of Inquiry is that the position of the tenant is not sufficiently focused. Mr Schouwenaar asked me whether there was the right of consent of tenants to purchase, sale and rental policies. Is that at the expense of home seeker or waiting list? The tenants are given the right to nominate two commissioners. They also have a right of consent in the case of mergers and participations. For matters such as new construction, sale and the level of rentals, agreements are made in the performance agreement on the basis of the municipality's residential vision. When making these appointments, the tenants are a full party at the table. Like the other parties, they do not have an absolute right of veto; the operation of this sector would become impossible. These performance agreements are crucial for the democratic embedding of the social housing sector. The role of the tenants is therefore really secured. It turns out that I just wrongly talked about 80 fte at the Central Fund; there are 45, of which 14 at the Inspection Environment and Transport.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u28	The Minister says that there is a right of assent, but not a right of veto. I understand. At first instance, I mentioned the example that corporations would want to demolish a complex for financial reasons; however, the tenants have a different view on this. Then the corporation can simply go ahead and there are no opportunities for the tenant not to accept that and maintain the homes. If that choice between corporation and tenant is not made, in my opinion the corporation will still be decisive. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u29	Sloop, like new construction, will be part of the performance agreement based on the residential vision. It is not the case that the tenants have a right of veto, but it is not the case that the corporation alone is decisive, as Mr Ruers suggests. There are three parties at the table. With regard to the financial position, I will provide the municipality and the tenants with an estimate of the investment capacity of the corporation. On this basis, it can be assessed whether recourse to that financial position is justified. If the parties do not come out of these performance agreements, they can also appeal to the Minister, who will submit it to the Appeals Committee. Along that route it is really guaranteed that not one party can block the whole game.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u30	I understand, therefore, that such a standoff follows the procedure you outline. If the tenants consider that the financial support is not available, then you are the one to whom the tenants or the municipalities can turn and then the appeal procedure can be followed. There is therefore an appeal from the tenants the of the municipality on you possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u31	We will provide the financial data anyway, and thus understand the investment capacities. This is intended to lead to good understanding and agreement for the three parties at the table. If no agreement is reached, appeal is possible. In practice, I will refer this to the arbitration committee first. The reflection of Mr Ruers' question was Mr Schouwenaar's question. He asked how we could prevent a corporation from being asked about financially, for example by an overly ambitious municipality. At the same time, the financial data will be on the table at that time. The corporation can then indicate how long her wrist stick is. This is supported by the information on the investment capacity available. If the corporation is then questioned, the corporation will first say "no" and, if necessary, initiate the appeal procedure. Mr Ruers asked whether the corporation could refuse financial support from the tenant organisation on the basis of the Consultation Act. The Consultation Act already provides that a tenant organisation may invite experts to the consultation of the tenant organisation with the landlord. The legislative proposal now before us amends it even further. It is added that the tenant organisation may ask the invited experts for advice, which may be delivered in writing. As regards the costs to be reimbursed, it is explicitly stated that at least the costs involved in inviting those experts and in asking for such information and advice. There is also the cost of training. In addition, the landlord and the tenant organisation must agree in advance a budget that the tenant organisation can spend at its own discretion. The landlord can only refuse to do so if the costs are unreasonablely high or reasonably not necessary. In addition, a dispute procedure is provided for and can be submitted to the tenancy committee. Mr Ruers has also asked me about the dispute procedure in the performance agreements, but we have already discussed this question in connection with the interruption. Mrs De Vries indicated that the municipal housing vision is a crucial building block of the law and of the way housing policy is implemented in the Netherlands. She regretted that there was no obligation in the law, so I understood her. My assessment is that the national legislator must be reluctant to impose obligations on a co-government. It's actually very unattractive for a municipality not to make a living vision. It is not so neat to its own inhabitants. However, if there is no vision of residence, there is no basis to demand these performance agreements and therefore not the professional possibility associated with them. I believe that, in practice, these residential visions will be largely realised. Mrs De Vries asked if I would at least sit down with the VNG in order to promote the large-scale and, if possible, national coverage of these housing visions. I'd be happy to. Of course, I am also in close consultation with the VNG, with the tenant organisations and with Aedes on the implementation of this law. I will emphasise this particular aspect. In the evaluation, too, I will return to the extent to which these visions of residence have really been established. Again, I think it's very important myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u32	I have a short question, because it was the end of this piece. Now suppose that, for whatever reason, those housing visions are not properly established and that this leads to poor or no performance agreements with municipalities. What if the evaluation shows that things aren't going well? Is the Minister prepared to take measures to ensure that things are going well, with the ultimate obligation to do so? It's more than just keeping track of whether things are going well or promoting them. Eventually, after about 15 years, it has to be considered whether it is necessary to make it compulsory.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u33	Yes. I find it complicated when you agree to an evaluation, to start saying in advance what you're going to do after the outcome. I'm not doing it for nothing. I think it's important, too. An evaluation, which will, by the way, be a broader assessment of the law, must also be carried out with an open mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u34	I couldn't agree more with the Minister. It's also colored in me by the experience of the past few years. All I ask of the Minister is this. That residential vision, that housing plan or whatever he wants to call it, is, as it were, "That's what he himself said." At least she should be. All other safeguards lapse, i.e. the performance agreements that corporations should comply with and the dispute resolution, if there is no residential vision. I'm not asking the Minister to anticipate the evaluation. However, if that evaluation shows that this test is not working properly because it is not being taken up, I would ask him to draw the conclusions from it and to ensure that the basis of this law can work properly. The way he does that, I look with an open mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u35	Okay. I think an evaluation is part of the fact that you don't rule anything out. Mrs De Vries should not interpret my words in such a way that I would not be prepared to take other steps. However, I think it is quite a step towards co-government as a higher government. That's why, although I share the interest with her, I'm holding a slap around the arm. Mrs De Vries also referred to the regional classification, which is part of the law to ensure that regional embedding is better achieved than at present with at least a number of large, almost nationwide corporations.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u36	I understand that the Minister is ready to answer the questions about the residential vision and performance agreements. I have asked a number of questions which partly coincided with those of Mrs De Vries, but I also had a more focused question. If there is no residential vision, there is no grounds for performance agreements and no grounds for dispute settlement. Is it not possible to come up with something that will allow corporations and tenant organisations to turn to the minister in one way or another if there is no vision of residence and agreements have to be made? It is now completely deposited with the municipality. If municipalities do not do so for some reason, neither corporations nor tenant organisations have the opportunity to take initiatives and put something into action to get the municipality going. My question was whether the Minister saw the possibility of doing something through the corporations and the tenants' organizations, not with the direct supervision of the Minister, but more at the initiative of the lower level.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u37	It would surprise me if corporations on a large scale would ask for a living vision, because they can do their work anyway and, equally disrespectful, they have more space if there is no living vision than if there is. That's why I designed it in such a way that it's rewarding for a municipality to make a living vision. The position of the tenants is another. I agree with Mrs De Boer. In the way in which we have shaped our democracy in the Netherlands, the logical route is that to the city council. The tenants form a large group in the municipality. On average, in the Netherlands, the social tenants are one third of the voters. It would really surprise me if municipalities on a large scale did not make a living vision, because this would make them out of their hands a very important popular housing instrument. It's not the sound I hear from the county. To the question where the tenants should go in such a case, my answer is: to the city council. Mrs De Vries asked whether the regional classification could lead to gaps. She mentioned the example of Amersfoort, where there is not one dominant corporation, and North Holland, where in a part of the province there is no real dominance corporation. The procedure I follow is that I first invite the municipalities to come forward with proposals for the housing market in regions. Even here, if they don't, I'll end up tying a knot. Part of this is also provided for in the Law on State aid, which states that, in the event that there are insufficiently authorised institutions or insufficiently capital-intensive authorised institutions in an area in order to be able to build a new task, there is a possibility for an authorised institution to apply for exemption. So there is a customised article to prevent that there can actually no longer be built.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u38	Mrs De Vries, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u39	Yes, but this may prevent a second-term question. There is therefore a possibility to apply for an exemption. As far as the regional classification is concerned, the Minister said that after a year, he said that's how we're gonna do it. If there is such an exemption, what is the time involved? There will have to be procedures for this. It just means a cut in housing policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u40	The exemption may be requested by a housing corporation. I have a strong suspicion that a few corporations will report to me early. That has not formally been done yet, but I sometimes speak to corporations that say they will report to me early and ask if they can obtain an exemption in view of the areas in which they operate. I will ask the municipalities in that area for a vision, because I want to prevent municipalities from being played against each other. If such an exemption is requested, I see no reason why I should be deliberating about it for a very long time. We have a year to build these housing regions. I believe that we should also be able to make this assessment in the course of that year.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u41	Just one more minute. There are already municipalities that are busy looking at how to do it all for next year and what challenges there are. This always raises the question of which corporation they can do that with. If that could be done fairly quickly, it would be a practical solution. If it's gonna take six months or something, there's gonna be a gap. Then you should find a creative way to speed up the process. If the Minister says he's willing to look into it, I think there's a tailor-made solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u42	Sure. The sooner a corporation that's involved reports to me, the sooner we can get to work on it. Mr Van Boxtel asked if I expected that the working methods with these housing market regions will indeed lead to more local bonding and more adjustment. I certainly expect that. Mrs De Vries's point is that there may be regions where there is no dominant party, but there is in many regions. A few corporations have also become so large that they have become elusive to local democracy. That's an undesirable situation. Hence the choice of classification in housing market regions. GroenLinks asked if the minister could intervene if too few social housing units were included in the housing vision. See what the need for housing is, is deliberately laid down at local/regional level. It is extremely difficult or almost impossible to assess the size of the social housing stock from The Hague. Whether in Amsterdam or in Roermond, housing markets are very local. That is why it has been chosen to have the size of the social rental stock weighed locally. There is a professional possibility about the performance agreements, although they are not specific to the size of the social rental stock. However, I do not want to introduce some sort of national minimum or maximum standard. I will, however, formulate a number of national priority issues which will in any case relate to affordability, energy efficiency and living with care. Without having the need to intervene locally, I would like to continue to monitor whether developments are moving in the right direction. The GroenLinks Group asked whether corporations and tenants could submit a dispute. I have already indicated to Mr Ruers that this can indeed be done. Mr Duivetteijn asked my view on the influence of tenants on the decisions of corporations. First of all, it needs to be strengthened. That's a cornerstone of the law. The route goes by the right of appointment of supervisors and the right of consent in the case of mergers and participations, and by the fact that tenant organisations are given a central place in the performance agreements, which are made locally. That was the real gain of the Chamber debate. Mr Kuiper asked if I could shed some light on the role of the housing vision. I hope that clarity has been brought about by the debate I have just had with some of his colleagues. I see a nod. If it is not, he will undoubtedly tighten up his question in the second term. A number of questions have been asked on two issues covered by the General Measure of Management. The first is the appropriate allocation. Before I go into the specific question, the reason I want to anchor the appropriate allocation back into the law is the following. That was a municipal obligation in the past. It was abandoned in the context of deregulation, but then the agreement was made with municipalities and corporations that they would in practice also allocate affordable housing to the people with the lowest incomes. The actual development is now that people with lower incomes are allocated more expensive rental homes at a very rapid rate. That leads to two problems. At the individual level of the tenant it leads to substantial rentals. This also has to do with the fact that the stock is relatively expensive, especially the new stock. At national level, it leads to an increasing seizure of the rent payment. Of course, it's getting higher with those higher rents. So both from the point of view of affordability and from the point of view of controlling the state budget, I felt I should intervene. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance asked whether this would not have a negative impact on investment, for example in sustainability. First of all, there is really room for appropriate allocation. We regularly have a large national covering research conducted: the Housing Research. The last one was about 2012. This shows that in that year about 26,000 people received rent payments. These are low-income people who are housed in homes with rents above the capping limit. There are thus 26,000 tenants in relatively expensive homes, but some 51,000 people without rent surcharge are in relatively cheap homes whose rent is lower than the capping limit. If you compare these figures, at least at national level, the picture is that the supply of affordable housing is sufficient and that there is real room for appropriate allocation. I realize that at the level of the corporations it depends on the exact composition of the housing file and the tenant's file. At the same time, I think it is such a core task of a corporation to house people with a small wallet that I think I can actually do this appeal to housing corporations. If, for a property without appropriate allocation, a slightly higher rent could have been calculated and that would have an effect on the income of an individual corporation, then the corporation has the usual financial buttons to put the finances in order, but the national data does not indicate very much. Then I'm talking about the general rental policy, the size of the overhead and the sales policy. Of course, these are not the only financial buttons that can be turned on. The follow-up question was whether this means that there is less room for investment in sustainability. I do not foresee any dramatic financial impact of this measure. In addition, we have prepared a subsidy of around 400 million in total for specific sustainability investments. Moreover, this type of investment is generally part of the regular large maintenance. In this context, it is part of the costs that need to be incurred periodically. So considering everything, I realize I'm appealing to corporations, but I think this is such a core task that I think that's reasonable.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u43	I fully agree with the Minister in principle. I believe that the ultimate goal should be for housing corporations to house the primary target group and that everything should be aimed at doing so. But if you put that obligation so hard, do you not run the risk of having unwanted effects in certain regions where supply and demand are distorted, in the sense that, for example, corporations will choose to increase the waiting list for the primary category, because there is sufficient demand from the secondary target group to be able to rent out the more expensive properties? I know that's not the point. It's not the Minister's intention. It is certainly not my intention, but has there been sufficient thought about this kind of counter-stimuli? Is there sufficient room to take the most effective measures at local and regional level to accommodate as much of the primary target group as possible? The fact that as much of the primary target group as possible is housed in an affordable home, preferably below the capping limit, but if it is necessary a little above that, I find it more important than that a smaller part should be housed appropriately, if the Minister understands the distinction I make in that regard.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u44	There are, of course, income limits for allocation in the social rental sector at all, so the somewhat higher incomes will have to be below 38 000 and a little after the adoption of this law. According to Mrs De Boer's reasoning, a corporation could allocate fewer people with a rent allowance to a house and more people with an income of between 28 000 and 38 000. I am not so gloomy about corporations, because fortunately they still see it as their goal to house people with a small wallet. Moreover, I think that this is also typical of the local performance agreements. After all, it is very logical to name these two groups, i.e. the group of lowest incomes up to the rental surcharge limit and the group above which is still dependent on a social housing, in the local housing market policy. Municipalities, tenant organisations and corporations then make an appointment. If a corporation wants to steer in that direction, it seems logical to me that municipalities and tenant organisations are really going the other way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u45	It is precisely for this reason that I asked whether it would not be logical to keep the target standard in the AMvB at 95%, but also to include a provision that, in the performance agreements, in the local agreements, it is possible to deviate slightly from the target level, provided that the parties agree that this is better in those municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u46	The experience of the last few years is the reason why this is again laid down by law. So they make me very reluctant. We once gave powers to municipalities and corporations, but unfortunately we had to note that they did not make good use of them. I can give that authority back, but I don't see why it would be better to use it now. It leads to high rents for people with a small wallet and nationwide to a higher bill for the rent surcharge.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u47	How could you remove the stimulus I've been told from the field that it is present? If you record that the percentage is 95, but that it may be lower in performance agreements, that is an incentive to establish a residential vision. You only allow exceptions in performance agreements with the corresponding appeal possibilities for municipalities, housing corporations, but also the tenant representatives. It seems to me that in this way you can build in some flexibility, while on the other hand there are sufficient safeguards to ensure that the objective is met that as many people as possible are properly housed. Will the Minister give us another thought to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u48	I think with all my might. I don't see why municipalities and corporations wouldn't use it if I offered that opportunity. That's the lesson of the past few years. The problem will then remain. We are also going to evaluate this section, of course. We're not gonna wait forever with that. Now I really think this is important, especially with regard to affordability.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u49	Of course, there are two ways to manage this: by looking at the tenant's income or by looking at the rent itself. I can imagine that this fitting standard also means that there will be a rent reduction for the houses that are above the capping limit so that the tenant can be properly housed. In the end, it's about that core group. What is the Minister's view on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u50	It's possible. Indeed, the corporation may reduce the rent of part of the stock below the capping limit for its magical reasons or to meet the 95% criterion. Mrs de Boer's point is, of course, that it has financial consequences if this happens on a large scale. I said that, in view of the national figures, it must be portable. Whatever you say, you can.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u51	That it can be done is pleasant or important in itself. Suppose corporations do not do this massively and that they still rent the houses above the capping limit to the other target group. Materially, this would mean that the waiting lists would increase very substantially for the vulnerable group, when you can expect, at least I can imagine that the government would also have a view on the rent policy to be pursued and that it would strike a balance between the target group and the housing offered.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u52	Certainly, the enormous increase in a waiting list, as Mr Duijvestein puts it now, is not desirable and not the objective. It's just not necessary either. If the existing stock does not match the demand of people on very low incomes in terms of rent, the possibility mentioned by Mr Duivetteijn is open and, secondly, the possibility of adjusting the housing stock. I just used the example that housing corporations can sell their homes. If the stock consists of relatively expensive houses, it may be rational to decide to sell part of the expensive stock and to invest its proceeds in a more affordable stock. If necessary, it makes sense to turn both buttons. However, as has been said, the rural image is not that the housing stock is not at all tailored to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u53	You may ask another question, Mr Duijvestein.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u54	I'm very modest this time. I am, of course, concerned with the question of whether the Minister is turning the buttons. Does he intervene from the national rental policy when waiting lists are up and there are insufficient affordable properties offered? In my view, that is the key question, regardless of the solutions put forward by the Minister, although I can imagine that they are partly working.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u55	The appropriate allocation is part of the evaluation of this law. He's gonna be here pretty soon. This is a logical moment to determine whether such undesirable effects are likely to occur. At the moment, I have to say that there are undesirable effects, but in the form of an excess of expensive allocations. So I really have to do something, I think. Questions have been asked about the AMvB and about the application of the market test in the case of inheritance land on the basis of long leases. I'm going back to the decision board. This is a housing corporation that wants to make non-DAEB investments, which did not choose to do so in a legally divided subsidiary, but wants to do it in an exclusively administratively divided corporation. For this reason, there is a market test because of past experience, where large losses have been incurred on commercial activities, but without wanting to make it impossible, because it may be important for urban and village renewal. I have also indicated that a number of corporations are doing this on their own. So we're not here administratively putting up something very complicated. Mr Knops tabled an amendment in the Lower House and asked that the market test should not be carried out in the case of land owned. That amendment was adopted, which makes it part of the law. It is also feasible, so of course it is simply implemented. The question now is whether, in addition to the amendment, land in short supply can also be exempted from the market test. I do not think that is logical for a few reasons, first of all from the point of view that the market test was there for a reason. Too much has gone wrong with free sector investment. I have already taken a step in relation to the outcome of the survey that we should not make any non-DAE investments at all. Each subsequent step is further away from the conclusions of the Committee of Inquiry. For that reason alone, I am very reluctant to do so. Legally, there really is a difference between land in ownership and land in land use. In the case of long-term land use, which is also perpetual, conditions are very often imposed on the use of land. These conditions may include, for example, the use of land for social housing. Unlike land owned, a passage to the municipality must be made in order to change that. Also scrapping because this is a restructuring operation which is generally subject to approval. In the case of debt securities, therefore, there is an additional administrative process. That is why I do not think it is logical to deal with this in the same way in addition to an amendment which has been adopted.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u56	The Minister says that in the case of land leases, the rule is that the land should be used for social housing. But it is precisely then that a market test is not at all relevant, because commercial activities would not be possible at all, with or without a market test? A market test is, of course, only relevant if, in principle, non-DAEBs are possible on that ground. Then, apparently, the municipality has not made that condition, and then, in my view, there is no difference in principle as to whether that land is owned or leased. The zoning rules may then apply, but they apply to both lease and ownership. If the lease conditions state that the land may only be used for social housing, the whole story of non-DAEB is not discussed. It is precisely those situations in which non-DAEs are, in principle, possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u57	Just as far as the lease is concerned: as with ownership, can a corporation not be obliged to transfer that part of the lease? If you then look at the extra guarantee that the municipality has at the destination that applies there and you have the fact that a corporation cannot be forced to transfer it, what is the difference with ownership?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u58	Mrs De Vries is right that a corporation that has land in debt cannot be forced, nor can a corporation that owns land be forced. But when the idea of the market test came up, it was never said that it should never apply to land in property or land in land use. It has just been said that a lot has gone wrong with non-DAE activities, for which we want guarantees. That's the main argument. The Court has exercised the right of amendment and said: despite the conclusions of the Committee of Inquiry, we want to give some room for this on administrative grounds. But that does not alter the main argument that we need to be careful with commercial activities. Force can't be in either case. Mrs De Boer's reasoning was not entirely closed. In fact, she said that if the destination is social housing linked to the lease, then nothing else should happen. There is a situation in which the corporation, apparently together with the municipality, says: for the construction of this district, which contains one-sided social housing, it is desirable that non-DAEBs be built. Otherwise, you'll never get into a market test. So at that point the corporation or other owner will have to go to the municipality and say: we have apparently agreed together in our housing visions that we want a part of the free sector here. We agree on that. Given that the land used for the lease is land, an additional step is needed, i.e. the adjustment of the lease terms. I can't make that prettier than it is. That is not the case everywhere, by the way. In Amsterdam it occurs at regular intervals. If a municipality has apparently already stated in the performance agreements that it wants a piece of housing in the free sector, then a municipality will not oppose that change in principle. So that's not gonna be the problem. However, I do not believe that the issue of additional administrative burdens, other than land owned, is relevant here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u59	I see Mrs De Boer and Mrs De Vries behind the interrupting microphone. Mrs De Vries seemed to me a little earlier. May I point out to you both that there is still a second term? You can now ask one more question, and we will finish this. Mr Schouwenaar also wishes to place an interruption on this point. The rest should be kept for the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u60	The Minister says, quite quite freely translated, I have tried to listen carefully to the fact that, in view of the problems that have been encountered, the exemption from the market test should not have been allowed. However, an amendment has been adopted which has ensured that the market test for home land housing plans is not necessary. That's what I'm talking about. It's not everything you should do. It's exactly why it's happening. It is still a question of whether only land ownership has been played, but I will stay out of it for a while, since I have not experienced the discussion. I do not think it is justified, if you are exempt from the market test for land ownership, to say that you are not. For that, I do not see a sufficient difference between those two variants. In the last weekend I tried to read the answers to questions from the House of Representatives with an emergency gang. I do not think there is any justification for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u61	I can support this to a large extent. I share Mrs De Vries' analysis that the Minister was actually opposed to that amendment and would like to keep its impact as limited as possible. The Minister says something about the situation in which the municipality changes the lease conditions and removes the destination of social housing. Of course that is possible, but in the end there is no difference between property and property. Then there is even more reason to treat both equally from that moment on, I would say.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u62	Mr Schouwenaar, then?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u63	Of course it's a follow-up. I tried to read all those writings, those questions and those answers yesterday. I think I have found something that I would like to contribute to the discussion. Of course there are differences; otherwise it would not be arranged in two different ways in the BW. But that leaves the question open, what are the differences? One of them is that a canon is paid, which can fluctuate, so it can be up or down. Usually up, sometimes up too much and then there are complaints again. This canon is partly determined by the value of the canon, which in turn affects the value of the ground, which also determines the height of the canon. We are talking about non-DAEB, that is to say the free sector, but it may be that an approved institution wants to build something there and has a plan for it. But it may also be that a private individual has a more beautiful, better, perhaps more expensive plan for that same plot. We are talking about the free sector, where more expensive is not always wrong. Then it may be that the heir says: I am now being hindered in my ability to ask for a maximum canon for my property, I do not have to accept that, I would ask the court to amend the lease agreement or to dissolve it if necessary, because now the lease holder is going too far. The municipality could also circumvent that by saying: I do not agree with the plan of the approved institution, then it should just become regulated housing and then we will realize the nicer plan of that private investor on another plot in the same planning area. Then the outcome is the same and before that he caught his somewhat higher canon.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u64	I hope to do justice to the three questioners. Mr Schouwenaar illustrated his input with the canon that could also depend on the use of the land, with the additional argument that there really is a difference between land use and ownership. Those different forms are not for nothing in the law. This is in addition to the example I mentioned, namely that there are often conditions that can also directly relate to the use of social housing. For that, you're gonna have to make a corridor to the heir's place. Mrs De Vries asked what I think of the amendment. Again, the market test is not for nothing in the bill. If you do not have to apply it on land owned and not on land leased, there is little left. The message from the parliamentary survey was right: watch out very carefully for activities in the free sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u65	This way, Mrs. De Vries.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u66	I looked it up for a while, because it was a very long piece. Question 136 of the documents I received was: "Is it true that land was included as an exception in the draft decision and that the market test on the basis of this draft decision could therefore be omitted in this case?" The answer is: "In the consultation version of the draft decision, credit transfer was initially included as an exception to the market test in the specific articles." However, as a result of the responses received, debt securities were withdrawn. All I want to know is what difference has emerged from the consultation that was not seen at the beginning. That does not make any sense to me from the documents.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u67	Now Mr Schouwenaar is coming, and he is keeping it short.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u68	Thanks for that encouragement, too. That was some kind of adhortative introduction. I don't think we should choose "freedom, happiness" unless a market test is urgently needed. The starting point is that a market test is carried out, unless it is not necessary for urgent reasons. The market test is there to establish that the market is failing. Then there's room for the TI. If I have listened carefully to Mr Knops in the Lower House, he wanted to avoid the red tape and the cost of the market test. Because you did it for nothing. Maybe the Minister can tell us how much this burden is. There is no need for cutlery and no need for a tender. It is a simple plan description which can be looked at very quickly and which does not involve high costs. I can imagine that there is a reason why the market test should be omitted, but also that it is not very extensive and not very urgent.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u69	First of all, Mrs De Vries' question. A consultation version of a law or an AMvB is made to ask for reactions from society. It is more exception than rule that the law as the First Chamber is presented is exactly the same as the consultation version. That was not the case with this law, because it has had different forms. First there was the mandatory hard legal cut. Then came a version that was closer to the current version. Eventually, there was the version that's here now. The same applies to the AMvB. On the part about the market test on land owned or otherwise In the case of land under construction, comments were received, including the comments I also submit to the Chamber, namely that the difference between land under construction and land under construction is indeed substantial. I, too, learned only then that there are, for example, lease agreements which indicate that land has been given into leases for social housing. Therefore, a different destination really requires an amendment to the lease agreement. I come to the argument of administrative burdens. So that really doesn't go as far as land owned. This is in addition to the fact that I do not consider the administrative burden to be such a heavy argument in this case, because I note that a lot of corporations have already taken this step on their own. At the same time, I recognise the full right of Parliament to table an amendment which, if properly enforceable, will also be part of the law. The amendment on land ownership has been accepted literally.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u70	I just heard the debate. Last summer, I was lucky enough to be able to assemble a college in the municipality of Amsterdam, in which parties from far left to far right found each other. The subsidy rate was a very important element in this respect. That is why I am listening very closely to the input of the CDA and GroenLinks. I wouldn't want us to put things like this back in place to prevent parties from agreeing locally that they will be more flexible in dealing with leases, in order to make the composition of property possible. So that's really not the issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u71	I'm gonna join the housing cooperative.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u72	In the meantime, may I ask how much longer do you think you need? We've had a lot of interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u73	Not for long. About five minutes, I think, except for possible interruptions. First of all, Mr Duijvestein's idea of living co-operatively was, but it is widely embraced in other contributions. This too has been extensively consulted at first. It has been seen whether tenant organisations and housing corporations see opportunities in it. There is therefore every reason for the role that a housing corporation can play in such a housing cooperative to be properly laid down in this law. Indeed, I find it an attractive prospect that this residential co-operative will flourish and come to maturity, because it is a very beautiful form of citizen involvement. That is something we have lost too much in social housing in recent years. Platform31 is currently conducting a number of experiments in this field. I can't really estimate how big the size is going to be. Again: I do taste enthusiasm in many places. I am willing to continue looking for ways in which we can encourage corporations and residents' organisations to make this a broad movement and a greater success. In addition, Mr Duivetteijn asked whether, as happened in England, we could establish a legal right of self-management. In England, it's called a right to manage. I really need to make a cut between what I think is desirable and what a legislator can do. Again, I find it very positive when residents take on that role. That gives great commitment and can give an impulse to a neighborhood. The imposition of a right to manage a housing corporation means that as a legislator you impose a duty on a private owner. This is a different situation from the one that usually applies in England. That's where the townhouses are. It is easier for the government to say something about one's own property than to impose a legal obligation on another's possession. That is why this bill does not include the right to self-management. I would also like to be very reluctant to include this in the law on another occasion. I come to a number of questions which do have to do with the subject, but which are not directly included in this legislative proposal. Mrs De Boer asked why rent increases are allowed above inflation. We've dealt with the law on this before. Then I indicated that I think it is very important that the rents have a relationship with the housing value of a house. An important part of the blockage in the rental market has to do with the fact that people stay somewhere for a long time, even if they now have a good income, because the rents do not grow with what they can pay or with the value of the property. Mrs De Boer's question focused on the lowest incomes. Especially for this, we have reduced the rent increase rate compared to high incomes, but we have not put it on the inflation rate. The development of housing costs does not necessarily go hand in hand with inflation. We have made sure that extra budget is available for rent surcharge. During this period of government, this amounts to 400 million. For the past two years, there have been some setbacks in the rent payment. Luckily, we have found room in the budgetary procedure to avoid cutting those setbacks on the rent payment itself. This means that the purchasing power effects for the people with the lowest incomes are really very low. The vast majority has a purchasing power effect of between 0% and -0.1% because the rent supplement corrects the rent increase. That is why I believe that we have been able to guarantee affordability, while at the same time the rents are better suited to the value of the property. Mrs De Boer asked me when I would like to come up with the rent-sum approach and whether it could be widely worn. It's connected. The idea of the rent sum approach comes from the plan Living 4.0 and that plan was widely supported. However, if I want to fill in on this part, it turns out that parties are a little bit scared of what it means if you really are going to do it. I have experienced this before with another part of Living 4.0. So that's what I'm encountering with the rent-sum approach. So far, it has not been possible to get tenants and landlords on the same page about the rent sum approach. This is, of course, a matter of particular importance. I have said that I want to leave the earning capacity of the sector intact when introducing the rent-based approach. That's clean. I've imposed a tax, and that was a major procedure. Then I don't have to go along another route to deal with the earning capacity. It is still my ambition to come to the Chamber with a proposal. I still hope that it will succeed in reaching agreement with the parties, but the experience so far does not give me much hope on that part. Mr Schouwenaar asked what I would like to do about cultural change in the corporate sector and what role could be played by the disclosure of figures and comparability of data. I think it is very important in terms of cultural change that we are really going to check whether directors and supervisors meet quality standards. In addition, we place the tenants in a strong position, focus on democratic control by the municipality and give the supervisor teeth. That's a real complex. If there is insufficient cultural change from the sector, we can still enforce it from the outside. I agree with Mr Schouwenaar that disclosure of data plays a very important role in this. I commend Aedes for the benchmark it has drawn up. I think that's a good move. I hope that participation will increase further. I am looking, partly on the occasion of a motion by Mr Van der Linde from the House of Representatives, at further possibilities for making information public. In doing so, I must, of course, move within the rules of law on confidentiality. However, it is also my ambition to disclose as much information as possible from institutions with a public task and a state guarantee. Mr Van Boxtel asked how the financial position of the corporations developed and referred to figures recently published. The Central Fund has indeed shown in the 2013 figures that the solvency, the resilience of the corporate sector as a whole, is developing positively; more positively than in the estimates I showed to this Chamber when we debated the landlord levy. Then there was the concern that the corporation sector would be financially in trouble and would no longer have room to invest. As a result of these figures, I have said that, in my opinion, this means that corporations have the space to invest a little more, especially in the existing stock where there is a major isolation blow.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u74	I would very much like to have that information verified by the Minister. I'm just really curious about the exact size of the solvency reserve. I know part of that money's stuck. However, there is also a flexible part. It will therefore be really interesting to consider in the coming years, in the case of scarce state budget resources, whether this contribution to the further development of the housing market, in particular in the social rental business, is actually being delivered back to the core business. This applies to both new construction and maintenance, also under the title sustainable maintenance. If we want to follow that a little bit, it is really important that we know those figures. We are not the House of Representatives, but in view of the fact that we have had such a heavy debate here about the landlord's tax and its impact, I think it is also extremely important for the House of Representatives to have a macro view of it. Not every corporation will have the same solvency; I want to nuance. However, the picture is really different from what we thought a year and a half ago. I think that's a bit of a crazy observation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u75	I agree with Mr Van Boxtel that it is in any case a good thing that the figures are developing better than they seemed at the time. The figures to which I refer are public figures from the Central Fund. I would be happy to share a further analysis with the First Chamber on how these differences have been built up. There's a rental development component and an interest component in it. I'll be happy to share it with the Chamber. Mr Van Boxtel also asked about my response to ING's research into the development of house prices. Outside the Randstad, there are probably very few price increases. In the larger cities, that still happens. To be honest, this fits in with the analyses that I have also regularly shared with the Chamber about the development I expect in the housing market, which really looks very different than in the years before us. This has consequences for local administrators, but also for the construction sector, for example. The time of the past isn't coming back. For housing corporations, it means that the parameters linked to the development of the WOZ will develop differently nationally. The landlord's tax will increase less outside the Randstad, as the WZ value will also increase less. On the basis of the housing agreement, the housing valuation system includes a WOZ component of a quarter. There too you will see that it will have a different influence in urban and non-urban areas. This was the intention for both parts and therefore makes sense. Mr Duivetteijn asked whether we could provide sufficient guarantees that living and care-related services are possible, and whether I would like to see with the Secretary of State of VWS whether this would require additional legislation. Together with Mr Van Rijn, I have drawn up a comprehensive package of measures to ensure that this transition to living longer at home takes shape. It is not for nothing that I, when I just indicated that I am going to follow a number of national performance criteria, also mentioned the transformation living and caring. In concrete terms, we have created a nationwide hunting team led by Marnix Norder. This is going to drive municipalities, healthcare institutions and property owners that there are regional platforms to identify the need for living and care. There too, you will see regional differences. Regional agreements can therefore be made. That goes along the line of the WMO regions that know their own consultation platforms. It is also logical that it becomes part of the local housing vision and performance agreements. As I have said, I would like to continue to monitor that nationwide because I think it is one of the most important housing assignments for the coming years. Mrs De Vries and Mr Duivetteijn have asked whether there is enough room to experiment, for example around living and caring. An experimental article is included in the General Measure of Management. I do not immediately envisage when and in what form I am going to use it, but I acknowledge with them that it is necessary to always have an overpressure valve in a law like this to give room for new initiatives. Mrs De Vries also asked about the possibility of companies being forced to invest in Europe. An amendment by the Christian Union was adopted in the House of Representatives to ensure that this will not become mandatory. In response, I said that it is not my ambition to spend it at European level, but that the European Commission ultimately decides on it. European law simply goes beyond national law. So I can't block it somehow. It's really waiting.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u76	I understand the misunderstanding was created by the wording. I didn't think of that myself. It came to me through Aedes' letter. Maybe you can eliminate that by means of a formulation. If you think that corporations do not have to spend European money, you may be able to do something by means of a wording that eliminates the danger.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u77	I'm afraid I can't solve it entirely by a formulation. Even under the existing Housing Act, the European Commission could decide that the combination of state guarantee and supervision of the corporation will make a public institution such that European procurement needs to be carried out. Mrs Schouten's amendment may offer some protection, because it indicates an intention, but European law goes beyond national law. Mr President, I hope I have answered the questions sufficiently in the first period.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u78	I have one more question, perhaps in order to avoid a second term. I've asked the Minister if he's willing to hang the AMvB for this too. We, too, attach importance to the implementation of important amendments after they have been discussed in the House of Representatives. I'd appreciate it if the Minister could answer that. Is he planning to put the AMvB in this room, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u79	I think there's been a misunderstanding, because the AMvB is in front of the Upper House, just like the Lower House.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u80	Yes, it is. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u81	Can we suspend for five minutes?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u82	Yeah, that's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u83	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for his comprehensive reply. On a lot of points, it certainly leads to satisfaction for us, but what is satisfied? At one point we are not entirely reassured or satisfied, but I will come to that in a moment. As far as living vision is concerned, I share the Minister's dilemma: if you decentralise something, you always have to look at how many rules you give. I could start another discussion about it, but I'm not gonna do that. It gets the benefit of the doubt. I assume that the Minister will keep his finger on the pulse, that he will come back to the evaluation and then see to what extent it has worked and what is being done about it. So I'm gonna leave it now. I'm waiting for the evaluation. I come to the sale of homes and the financing of restructuring in the non-DAEB branch. We understand that there is an experimental article in the AMvB that you could do something with if there are projects that do not fit into the rules but that would be desirable. We are pleased with that. You also come across other things that you can say: shouldn't it be something else? You can say, if you just have a vision, you do good things. I'm not going to go into that now. We have signed a motion that has yet to be tabled by Mr Duivetteijn. Soon the Minister will hear about it. As far as Europe is concerned, we are following the Minister's line. There has been talk about theory versus practice and, for example, about situations such as in Amersfoort, where housing market regions or corporations have to withdraw and so suddenly a gap arises somewhere. If a corporation asks for an exemption, we trust that the minister will settle it as soon as possible, so that there will be no gap that will prevent a municipality from knowing with whom to implement its housing policy. Then there's one thing left for us: the lease. To be honest, we have still not heard the reasons why it was originally in the AMvB concept and why it was taken out later. Mr Schouwenaar mentioned a number of things that I recognized. It was in the answer to Question 147, in the same long list in the context of the answers to the parliamentary questions on the draft decision. But I still haven't heard why they are not treated equally and why the equivalence has been removed from the original concept of AMvB. If it is said that it is somewhere and that it is desirable that the market test be carried out because the change of use usually leads to a new adapted contract, then I think that is the wrong incentive if you would like to assess that in substance. In that case, everyone would be able to maintain their right of residence and then the desired development would not be achieved, but that aside. For me, it's important that you have long-term leases and that you have property and land. It is not clear to me what difference it justifies making a legal distinction between the two. That is why we have tabled a motion together with GroenLinks. That motion will be filed by GroenLinks shortly. I would also like to thank the Minister for answering the other questions. We hope that the evaluation that will take place in a not too long time will not reveal too many things that we have now done too rigidly and which we will soon say: we should have done a little bit differently. If that is the case, then the evaluation will show that in a not too long time and we will be able to adjust it. I advise my group to vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u84	Madam President. Thanks also from the VVD for the comprehensive and thorough reply of the Minister. Occasionally he thought along and occasionally he corrected. He's convinced us as far as he needed to. However, I still have a few comments to make about livingability, leases, housing seekers and public access, or "openness" I should actually say. First of all, I come to the quality of life. It's framed; I've seen that. I have mentioned this in the first instance, but there are always wishes, often in the form of exceptions to existing or new regulations. Should we not provide them with some sort of external border, so that we can frame the foreseeable need for enlargement in advance and independently of a specific case? "Liability" is a very vague concept. Sometimes it is tangible and tangible and it is about numbers: the number of garbage bags, the number of robberies, the number of declarations. But sometimes it's about a state of mind: ominous, dangerous, threatening. "Liability" is a very diverse concept. So it does not seem easy to define that either, but it seems useful to me. It reminded me of the words of Professor Belinfante, who said about public order, which is also such a difficult concept: no one knows what it is, but that does not prevent us from maintaining it. I hope it's all a little more controlled with the vitality. Then I'll come to the lease. We discussed the legal aspects. I note that we differ. In any case, legal differences have been mentioned. That they are not persuasive is something else, but I do not think we can sustain that lease and property are related to land and that they are long-term and therefore the same. That's too unsophisticated. I would like to mention three other reasons why, in my group's view, it would be undesirable not to take the market test. Firstly, it is undesirable from the point of view of decision-making. In fact, you say in advance to the corporation: we choose your plan, we don't need a comparison with other plans; we don't want one either. To a private investor you say: no matter what you come up with, no matter how beautiful your plans are, we don't want to know them. We do not consider that to be appropriate from the point of view of decision-making.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u85	But, Mr Schouwenaar, that also applies to own land.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u86	That is correct, but in any case, much stronger than in rent, the argument is that you can't do anything if the corporation is not willing to renounce its land. We would also have preferred that amendment not to be included, but we should do it here with the texts as they are presented. Mr. Chairman. Secondly, we are going to open the door a little further towards the allowed institutions in the free sector, in the non-DAEB area. We didn't want that because of the risks inherent in it. It is a bit the world upside down, because we will soon be able to get the situation that in large cities, where there is a lot of housing and a lot of urban renewal, almost exclusively the allowed institutions are operating in the free sector and that private investors are not getting a foothold. That is not the situation we should all want. Then I come to the house seekers, the people who are actively looking, the people who urgently need a house. About these people, the Minister writes in the reply on page 25: it may be expected from the municipality, corporation and tenant organisation that they will take into account the interests of the house seekers. In my opinion, this expectation sheds light on the legal rights that are granted to tenants. Again, we do not advocate weakening the legal rights of tenants. We are in favour of strengthening the position of house seekers. Page 25 of the reply is one of the few places where house seekers are mentioned in so many words. In the pieces tenants are much discussed and house seekers remarkably little. In the same pieces I did not come across much about numbers and needs of house seekers, at most occasionally something about the length of waiting times, while those numbers and needs should be our first concern. That is why I ask the Minister: do you want to place more emphasis on the interests of those looking for housing in the relationship between tenant and seeker than so far? My final point concerns openness. I know of course the motion or the amendment, I do not know, tabled by Mr Van der Linde in the House of Representatives on open dates. Very rudely said, this is about active openness and about the whole sector. I am also talking about passive public access and the individual admitted institution. Does the Minister want to make serious about the winged words of his colleague Thorbecke? In public, I am not thinking of any more information for the supervisors. That's all well taken care of. It is about access to information for people who are involved and interested and who are also entitled to that information. Journalists, market players, interest groups, residents and so on. They should have maximum access when they ask for it. Why? Because of the preventive effect of this disclosure. Corporates should be able to open up business on a continuous basis, without being able to rely on a ground for refusal. This constant awareness of accountability puts a brake on irresponsible action. Corporates should not resort too quickly to a ground for refusal. They serve a public interest. Concepts such as business sensitivity or competition do not fit well with the public interest. The WOB is part of the semi-public sector, as a means of preventing risky behaviour.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u87	First of all, I would like to say that I am passionately in favour of this. Secondly, I would like to invite Mr Schouwenaar to table a motion on this, because I think it is incredibly important that that signal should go to the sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u88	I assume that the Minister will pick up that signal sufficiently and that he will also convey it in his contacts with the sector. Thank you for your passion, by the way, but you also have it on other subjects, so I have to share it with others. That's okay; I'm happy to do it. I had actually come to the end of my speech. We would like the Minister to examine the possibility of even greater openness. I thought a new version of the WOB is also on the way, but it's a bit of a glitch in the Lower House. Perhaps that would be a good opportunity to continue with this and, if possible, to develop that option further.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u89	Mr. Chairman. Let me begin by strongly supporting Mr Schouwenaar's plea for greater openness and transparency. We believe that this could apply to more sectors which are in the public interest, including the financial sector. I hope that we can also support the VVD for greater openness and transparency of other institutions in public sectors, such as the financial sector. Again, I wholeheartedly endorse his plea. In my first term, I quickly went into the depths of a number of specific topics. I have not so much said what we thought of the law as a whole. I'd like to make that up to you now. The GroenLinks Group supports the objectives of the law to ensure that housing corporations focus more on their core task, housing the primary target group of social housing and improving the supervision of the functioning of housing corporations. The points I have raised are the points on which we are concerned. On the basis of the first deadline, I have a few comments to make. I have not paid so much attention to SGEIs and non-DAEBs in the first term, but in the light of the debate that has been unfolding about Mrs De Vries' example, I have become a little concerned. How should this be done with combined projects, with a non-DAEB leg contributing to the financing of SGEI activities? That is actually made impossible by this law, whereas I can imagine that in some situations this is the only way to get a combined project off the ground. Perhaps the experimental space offers opportunities for this or can we consider it in the evaluation? At least it was a point I took from the first term. I don't know if we got that too close. Then I'm gonna get to the fitting test, which I've been talking about extensively. I had a feeling there was some confusion about that. For this reason, I would like to make it clear that the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance supports the aim and principles of the adequacy test. We think it is very important that housing corporations are obliged to offer as many rental homes as possible below the capping limit to the primary target group. We have concerns about possible side effects of a very tight, rigid standard. These side effects may be waiting lists, rent increases for the lower rental categories or there may be a brake on investments in energy saving. At first, I mentioned in an interruption the idea of considering whether you could not set that 95% as a standard in the decision and whether you could not offer some room, locally, to deviate slightly from that with performance agreements. I invite the Minister to reconsider, in the further development of the decision, whether that could be a form of keeping both the standard and the standard, while at the same time offering some flexibility. I mentioned energy saving very briefly. The Minister is quite optimistic that housing corporations will continue to do so. I'll help him hope. I am glad to hear that energy saving is one of the government's priorities in something I do not know very well. That is actually my question: when following, promoting, stimulating residential visions? The Minister mentioned a number of points on which he will be committed and which will also be monitored, but how exactly should I describe this commitment? After all, no residential vision is prescribed, but action is apparently being taken from the Ministry to raise points for this. What exactly does this action mean? What do we call that? A question I had asked about energy saving in the first period has not been answered. I asked the Minister, if he is considering a new design of the rents, to stop thinking about the living costs as a whole, rather than just the rent. With regard to short-term loans, I shall begin by responding to what Mr Van Boxtel said. If you're gonna allow the exemption for long-term leases, aren't you gonna close it down in the big cities? I think that was his question. I don't think so. In any case, the intention is the opposite. If you make the market test mandatory, it can mean that you put a much more brake on the use of housing corporations and on mixed building. You'll have less flexibility in that. This, together with the fact that we consider it fundamentally incorrect to distinguish between property and property rights, leads us to table a motion, which will be read out in a moment. I would like to make another comment to Mr Schouwenaar. He says: an important legal difference is that you can terminate a lease, while you can't affect property. As far as I know, it's no easier to dissolve a lease than to expropriate own land. You need about the same arguments and conviction for that. So I do not see much difference there either. The President shall: Mr De Boer, Mr De Vries-Leggedoor, Mr Strik, Mr Terpstra and Mr Duivetteijn proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas:]] [[that the legislative proposal Amendment of the Revision Act allowed institutions to housing people (33966) after an amendment to that effect in the Lower House (33966, no. 55) exempts the mandatory market test for non-DAEB activities where the housing corporation concerned owns the land;]] [[that in large cities, where the land is often not owned by corporations but has been issued by municipalities in permanent or perpetual leases, there are many restructuring notices where it may be desirable for housing corporations to invest in non-DAEB activities;]] [[that the argument on the basis of which an exception is made to the mandatory market test for land owned is that the market participant cannot claim ownership of the land;]] [[that this argument is equally valid for land issued under lease: a market participant cannot claim it;]] [[the fact that there is also insufficient legal basis to distinguish between ownership and transfer pricing in the present case;]] [[calls on the Government to continue to include in the implementing regulation that the exception to the market test on land owned by corporations will also apply to land which they hold on the basis of permanent lease payments,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32769-F]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u90	Madam President. I'll be brief. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister very much for his detailed presentation and for answering the many questions. I found it enlightening. I note that the Minister has given me an answer to two questions which I have raised and that I have been able to conclude from this that, as far as the vision of residence is concerned, an important task is laid down in the new legislation for the three parties, i.e. the municipalities, the corporations and the tenants. If there is a difference of opinion, an appeal to the Minister is possible and he has the necessary means, including through a professional committee, to steer it. This is a step forward, which means that the tenants can at least provide some counterweight to a corporation which, in their view, does not consider the interests of the tenants to be sufficient. That is progress and also a point of profit, but we will, of course, have to see in practice how it works. Secondly, the Minister explained the extension of the tenants' landlord consultation Act in the sense that tenants can claim effective support earlier than now by engaging experts and financial support. I understand from the Minister that in the event of disputes, we do not contact the Minister but the Rent Committee. That is clear, and that is also a gain. All in all, this is a good step forward and, having said this, we can fully support the legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u91	Mr. Chairman. We also thank the Minister for the pointy answer and the high degree of accuracy. Nevertheless, I always have to remember the debates on housing at the time of Van Dam, Schaefer etc., but that is because I have been in this business for too long. Those were the days! Then you see how it can return to a very mild situation. However, this mild situation has arisen after a very sad history. It is very unfortunate that a number of corporations and a number of people in a sector that is public and which potentially has great opportunities to influence the well-being of many low-income citizens have been derailed so much that there is a unanimous legislative proposal in the House of Representatives. That really says something about the fact that politics is drawing a very strong line: up to here and no further. That is how I interpret this moment in the history of housing. Parliament is whistling the sector back to its original objectives and the new impetus will have to be reinvented. I myself would have liked to talk about the future and the extent to which self-management becomes meaningful. We have, of course, dealt with this when it comes to the right to manage or when it comes to housing. These issues have undoubtedly been raised, but I also realise that this is not the time when we can speak freely about the new history. It is no different and we will have to accept it. We are also very happy to accept this, because it is important at the moment for this law to be carried as widely as possible by the two Chambers. In that sense, I congratulate the Minister and certainly also the House of Representatives, who has contributed in her way. In doing so, we send a signal to the professionals in that public sector and at the same time we hope that this can lead to a new beginning. I thought it was great, as Mr Schouwenaar almost passionately said, but it must be said that he spoke about openness, transparency and access to all information. It would be fantastic if we could unlock the private-public sector in that way. In fact, it is very strange: while an alderman, a minister or a secretary of state can be called to account at any time, that is not really possible or hardly possible in this very closed structure of the public sector. The accountability lines are organised, but they are not transparent or open to public. I agree with Mr Schouwenaar that public access has a tremendously beneficial effect. Moreover, it is very attractive to me that you have to answer for decisions you make in public. That is part of a democratic process. For us that is normal, but in the sector that is strangely not normal at all. There is a rather closed governance model and in itself the step indicated by Mr Schouwenaar would be a good step. I would like to comment briefly on SGEIs and non-DAEBs, also referred to as services of general economic interest. Knowing the practice, I wouldn't be surprised if a forest of e.g. is created that we can do little about, because the current proposal requires a corporation to organise non-DAEB in a separate entity. I want to say that out loud. For me, it is only a question of whether the opening that is now being created in the law is desirable. Moreover, the question remains whether, if excesses occur, we can still act in an entity that is not only economically independent, but is likely to be independent in the administrative structure as well. I myself think that is more of a concern that I would like to say that there is a possible leak in the legislation, which perhaps is not meant to be. I would like to draw the Minister's attention to this in the drafting of the General Administrative Measures, and in particular to the inspection, the financial authority which should give this significance. As far as this financial authority is concerned, we have expressed our concerns about independence. I myself believe that the answer to this question of independence is good, but the question is whether that is independence from the minister or whether there is independence within the institute itself. Will the top of the inspection ultimately determine what that state-of-the-art judgment and that financial advantage is? As far as we are concerned, this is not yet entirely clear. We opt for an independence that is very clear to everyone, including within that line organisation. From a business point of view, there is no difference in principle between debt and ownership. They're both business rights and they can both be traded. Inheritance, certainly perpetual lease, is a fully accepted instrument. I therefore believe that there should be no discrimination between property and property. That would be wrong. It's either not or it's both when it comes to placing a market test. We have to realise, however, I realize that to an increasing extent the post-war neighborhoods are massively owned by corporations. Whether it is debt or property, the influence of the corporation sector on the development of entire neighbourhoods is enormous. In my opinion, this conflicts with the municipality which wants other things than that there is necessarily a conflict with the market. Those alliances with the market can still be entered into. My last point is right to manage. This law does indeed prescribe the corporate sector how to act. The right to manage is not an intervention in ownership, but an intervention in the management mode. In my opinion, it would be possible. I'd be okay with it if at least it's under investigation. I think it's very important, because at least it's an opening. I can imagine that the Minister does not want to take that step at the moment, but it is certainly necessary to promote experiments in this area. Then I'll join the housing cooperative. Thank you for your comments. It is very nice that the idea is widely supported. I would like to table a motion on that point. It's still in my place neatly, so I'll get it to you in a minute. But before I table the motion, I shall first make one final comment. It concerns asylum-seekers, as they were previously referred to. It is strange that there are 30,000 asylum seekers in 58 asylum-seekers' centres and that 12,000 of them have already passed their deadlines and should be relocated for a long time. Not so long ago it was 7,000; there are now 12,000. This also means that the influx is extremely problematic. It is therefore important that this point be given particular attention. I'd like to hand over my motion personally to you, Mr. Chairman. The intention of the motion is to support the policy advocated and at the same time an incentive from the Chamber to take that step in which the government is also, as it were, active in the field of stimulation. The President shall: Mr Duivetteijn, Mr Van Boxtel, Mr De Vries-Leggedoor, Mr De Boer and Mr Ruers proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas in recent years the social housing sector has sold large numbers of social housing units, and it is expected that this development will be intensified;]] [[Whereas unfocused workers from social housing may be particularly vulnerable to sustainable housing stock management;]] [[Whereas, in a modern housing system, the target group should be free to choose between the traditional rental of a home or to give content to the self-management of the home and the living environment;]] [[Notes with appreciation that, in addition to the current authorised institutions, residential cooperatives of tenants and buyers have now been incorporated into the Housing Act;]] [[Notes that a targeted transfer of residences to citizens is preferable and should be widely enabled to give content to its own residential cooperatives;]] [[noting furthermore that residential cooperatives release financial resources which can be used "in housing and in rental policies";]] [[calls on the Government to adopt an action programme which, in addition to Platform31 initiatives and the establishment of a knowledge centre, together with municipalities, housing associations and tenant organisations, encourages the introduction of residential cooperatives,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32769-G]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u92	Mr. Chairman. There is nothing left for me to say but that I think it is very nice that we discussed this important legislative proposal with each other in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u93	Mr. Chairman. On behalf of D66 too, I would like to thank the Minister very much for his speech, his answers and his care. I also support Mr Schouwenaar when it comes to public administration. I am very surprised, even working on a daily basis in a sector that is moving towards the intersection of public and private, that openness in that sector is at least complete. All the annual reports are public, the data are sent to the Home Office and it is all published, but with the housing associations it is a lot more complicated. I'm falling for that. I would also like to include those who said that it is happening in other sectors. We can do that here, too. I am very much in favour of that. I hope that the Minister will find a more activist attitude in consultation with their industry organisation. My second point concerns residential co-operation. The Netherlands is an example of how many cooperatives have brought. The core of a cooperative is that parties also mean something to each other, both the organizer and the participant. We know it from the milk corner, Friesland Campina. We know it from the banking corner, back in the day, the Rabo. I know it from the health insurance business. Co-operatives have brought a lot. I wholeheartedly support the motion, but not so much because the Minister would not like it, because that promise was actually accepted after the debate of one and a half years ago. However, I think it would be very good for the Chamber to say once again that it wishes to continue to support initiatives, including those of the cabinet. I would like to congratulate my colleague, Mr Duivetteijn, on taking the initiative. I wholeheartedly support that. One last word is about the lease. I listened very carefully to Mrs De Boer. I found her motion difficult to follow, but I will read it again quietly and the group will decide next week whether or not it will support the motion. Of course, I am curious to hear the Minister's answer. I come to my very last point. I would like to thank the Minister for his commitment to provide us with information on the developments in corporation country surrounding the solvency reserve. That remains a huge focus for me. We see needs, not only as a result of asylum seekers who have been granted status and who hinder the flow into the regular housing market, but also in a broader sense. In many places there is still a shortage of housing and people with pain are waiting for a home. It can't be that a large social capital literally stays dead on the shelf. Before I make a judgment on that, we need that information first. I'm glad you agreed to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u94	Thank you very much, Mr Van Boxtel. I ask the Minister if he will be able to answer the questions in 15 minutes. Will that work, Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u95	You're asking me in such a way that I wouldn't dare say no.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u96	That's nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u97	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the various speakers for their appreciation of this law and for their support for the broad lines of that law. At the same time, there are still some questions and concerns that I will try to take away. Mrs De Vries asked if I could promise that I will make a quick decision for regions where an exemption is needed when a non-dominant corporation wants to build there anyway. I'd be happy to say so. Mrs De Vries has also tabled a motion on the discharge procedure, a subject on which a number of other speakers have also raised. I have a political and a procedural balance in this regard. We have now exchanged the legal points. There are differences between restructuring on long-term land and on ownership grounds which require a complex restructuring procedure on long-term land. I think that's right. The political balance is the following. An important lesson from the Committee of Inquiry is to be very reluctant with non- SGEI partners. According to the General Court, we have lost more than a billion. It was probably intended to make money, but the facts are different; a lot of social money destined for social housing has been lost. Perhaps the main conclusion of the Committee of Inquiry is: stop all non-DAEB activities. I have been able to make a convincing statement to the House of Representatives, and I hear from you the same thing: it is not right to stop altogether; it must remain possible in the case of restructuring. We must then guarantee it, because we do not want to lose another billion. An important guarantee is to check whether the market would not want to do it, because a loss on the market is not a loss of Community money. I really think that's something else. Besides, you have a business test there. For this political reason, I believe that any weakening of the market test is a loss from the perspective of protecting the tenant and the people's property. I also have procedural complexity. The AMvB has been presided over by both Chambers and the Lower House has requested a debate on this. I may now come to the situation in which the Upper House makes a ruling rather than the Lower House. I don't know yet what the House of Representatives will say about this. For that reason, too, I find it complicated and it would be most logical to hold this motion until the House of Representatives has spoken. If you wish to put the motion to the vote, I should advise against it for the political reasons.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u98	On this last point, I would almost like to call on Mr De Boer to hold the motion until the debate has taken place in the House of Representatives. The temptation is enormous to go ahead as a senate in the House of Representatives, but that is not the usual way. Maybe we can play it right away, or do you still want to press? Then I am inclined to follow the Minister on this procedural point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u99	I am going to think about it carefully and will clarify it before Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u100	Thank you. Mr Schouwenaar expressed his concern that the concept of 'viability' would once again expand. This concept is enshrined in the law and in the AMvB, so it can only expand after explicit permission from the Chambers. This is a gain compared to the current situation, in which the concept is not clearly defined and has given rise to excesses. Mr Schouwenaar once again stressed the great importance of people who do not yet have a home and would like to do so. This is partly regulated by another part of the policy, in particular by raising a higher rent increase for people in a relatively high-income social housing. As a result, the flow is promoted. In addition, I really think it is up to the municipality to let the seeker come to his senses in the housing vision of the municipality and the agreements made on that basis. My own experience may be slightly off against Mr Schouwenaar's, but I know from the city council that the question of how young people get housing is really an important political question. Then I come to the desire expressed and widely shared by Mr Schouwenaar for access to information on top of the additional information contained in this law. I'm willing to see if there's a hook to make in the WOB to housing corporations. I say this openly, because I cannot guarantee that it is feasible. It's an express wish, so I'd be happy to say I'll come back to it. Apart from that, I also strive as much as possible outside the WOB for open data on the part of housing corporations. Mrs De Boer asked whether the appropriate allocation could also take account of other housing costs than the rent. I understand the question, because energy is of course an important part, but it is actually not feasible. The requirement for appropriate allocation with a hard rate of 95 will be checked at the annual audit, reported and sanctioned. This means that there must be clear criteria. The concept of 'additional housing costs' is not sufficiently clearly defined and there is no data available on the energy bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u101	I'm aware of that. My question was not so much about making appropriate allocations, but about involving it in the consideration of a new system of rental prices and their regulation. Is it perhaps possible at that time to look at the total housing costs in a new system, including energy costs? I realize that it is very complicated and I do not have the solution, but for people on low incomes energy costs are quite relevant when it comes to reducing housing costs. From that point of view, and from the point of view that we all want to use less energy, it is important to see if that is possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u102	I think I might be able to operate Mrs. De Boer along another route. There is a bill coming out of my hand, which is still with the Council of State, on how the corporations pass on the costs incurred in the context of zero-on-the-meter attempts. That requires a legal amendment. I do this at the request of the project de Stroomaccelerate, in which corporations and a number of construction companies together develop energy-neutral housing. In the context of this legal process, we shall come back to that question, because we will also set a standard for investment costs and maximum energy consumption. That seems to me a logical moment to continue this discussion, because I find it difficult to place her in this. Mrs De Boer also asked how I would deal with the national priority issues I have identified: energy saving, housing for the elderly and housing combinations. At the time when the Empire appoints them as priority themes, municipalities are asked to include them in the performance agreements. We will monitor this nationally, which may give rise to additional measures if we see truly undesirable developments. I have just commented on the motion in response to Mrs De Vries' contribution. I think Mr Ruers and I have liked each other, but I need to tighten up his wording. He said parties could appeal against the housing vision. That's against performance agreements. The housing vision is made by the municipality and thus forms the basis and also the right to demand performance agreements from the corporations. Then the tenants slide to the table. If no agreement is reached, the right of appeal arises. Mr Duivetteijn remembered the debates with Van Dam and Schaefer with melancholy. I do not wish to deprive him of this melancholy, but I was pleased that he found that this law, and perhaps the tone to which we are talking about it, although it is for damage and shame, is a profit, and that after all these years, in which Mr Duivetteijn was personally very closely involved and involved, we can really take a step forward. He expressed some concern as to whether the Financial Authority's housing corporations were sufficiently independent. I would also like to say with conviction that we are taking a step forward. The extent to which the law lays down the powers, in which they have been delegated and where additional instruments have been allocated, for example the fit-and-clean test for directors and Commissioners, I find really huge steps forward. Here too, I would just like to take up Mr Duivetteijn's general remark that we are making a profit here. I share the special attention given to the status holders. Yeah, it's pinching. I see it as my responsibility, together with my colleague from V and J, to ensure that we fulfil the obligation we have there. People are recognised as refugees and deserve protection. Then we must also ensure that we find accommodation as soon as possible. That's why we're setting up a separate trajectory. Mr Duivetteijn tabled a motion on the co-operation on housing, calling for, in addition to Platform31's initiative in cooperation with municipalities, housing corporations and tenant organisations, to encourage the introduction of housing co-operation. I see this motion as supporting the line I want to follow and therefore as supporting policy. Mr Van Boxtel stressed the importance of public access. I hope I have done this right in response to Mr Schouwenaar. He asked for further clarification on the cooperative and the lease, questions which I hope I have both answered. He also expressed his support in a broad sense. I am pleased with the broad positive attitude that I see here, because I also feel that we are all convinced that we have been working too long to properly define what social housing is for and that this has led to excesses that have become detrimental to a sector that ultimately does good and crucial work. With the adoption of this law we can do justice to that sector, we can place tenants in a much stronger position and create clarity for the investment climate, which is good for the construction sector. This really will enable us to take a step forward together.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u103	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u104	I have come to deal with the legislative proposals. I'll do that by bill. Does one of the members wish to vote on bill 32769, the Revision Act approved institutions of housing? That's the case. I propose that next Tuesday we vote on the bill and the motions. Does one of the Members wish to vote on legislative proposal 33966, the new revision law allowed institutions to housing? That's the case. I propose that we also vote on this next Tuesday.
