ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-8.u1	I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Education, Culture and Science. I give the floor to Mrs Siderius to table her motion. I hope that there will soon be enough people here to support that motion. Four MPs in the room is good. Go ahead, Mrs. Siderius.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-8.u2	Mr. Chairman. I see that the whole Parliament has come to speak on this issue. It is not an insignificant subject, because it is about appropriate education. The Secretary of State knows that the SP is not very enthusiastic about the way it has been implemented. This also has to do with the financing system of appropriate education, the so-called settlement issue. This means that the budget for education for pupils with disabilities is distributed differently, which has led to large financial deficits in some regions and even to the closure of schools. I shall therefore table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Kinderombudsman notes that the negative settlement in certain regions plays a decisive role in accessing special education for pupils with disabilities;]] [[noting that the negative settlement results in the elimination of crucial knowledge and expertise in certain regions when it comes to (continue) special education for pupils with disabilities;]] [[noting that the negative settlement hampers the possibility of tailor-made work, because only financially-driven decisions are taken by partnerships rather than educationally-based decisions;]] [[considers that funding for education for pupils with disabilities should be based on what a student needs rather than on the available budget;]] [[calls on the Government to immediately stop the settlement system within the appropriate education,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Siderius. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31497-181]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-8.u3	Mr. Chairman. D66 is not against settlement, but against settlement on the basis of past data, because they are not influenceable. My group's view is that the number of homeowners determines the success of a partnership. My group does not care at all how cooperation is chosen between special education and non-special education, whereas we are now influencing it. My group would therefore like the percentage of home-owners to be appropriate for the allocation of resources. To that end, I shall table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the percentage of homeowners is the strongest indicator of the success of a partnership;]] [[calls on the Government to make the percentage of home-owners appropriate for the settlement of the resources for appropriate education,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Meenen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31497-182]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-8.u4	I think it's a pretty tricky motion. D66 knows as well as the SP that many partnerships do not have the figures of the number of homeowners in order, because schools do not always see the importance of reporting homeowners because they are then financially disadvantaged. How's D66 gonna fix that? Shouldn't D66 make sure that all that is in order before such a motion is tabled?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-8.u5	That's a bit of a chicken-and-egg discussion. I hope that D66 and the SP agree that if you base the settlement, as it is intended now, on past data, it is uninfluenceable. Everything will stand still and it will be as it is. My group has serious problems with this. We would like to build an incentive in the system which leads to the number of homeowners going down. I fully agree with Mrs Siderius that this will require a clear picture of the number of homeowners. If that's gonna be the indicator, you're gonna have to be clear about that, too. That there are interests not to make that clear, we've known that for a while now. The task is therefore partly to make that absolutely clear. There are many more arguments to make that clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-8.u6	The only thing D66 and the SP agree on in this matter is that we do not think the current system is ideal. We don't think it's ideal at all. The SP probably thinks that for reasons other than D66. I fear, however, that we are going to suffer even more from cooperation, which is already having a difficult time, because homeowners sometimes sit at home because there is simply not enough adequate education. Those partnerships and those schools will be taken extra hard by D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-8.u7	I don't think that's the case. I think that partnerships are particularly difficult at the moment because they are dealt with in situations that have arisen in the past. I mention, for example, the presence of a lot of special education. There could be very good reasons for that. Like the SP, D66 does not want special education to be stripped of because of this settlement. We believe that this should be a choice of the region and that you should only look at what you are actually trying to do: to reduce the percentage of homeowners. That is why, in my group's view, this should be the indicator on the basis of which the resources are distributed. This should not be done on the basis of past data. There can be very good reasons which, as far as we are concerned, could also be maintained. The Ambelt is a very good example of that. Why does it have to be closed? Because there is settlement based on the fact that, at least according to this model, there would be too much special education. That's exactly what D66 and the SP both don't want. If you're gonna cross paths, you're gonna have to have another indicator. Then the percentage of homeowners is the only meaningful indicator you have any influence on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-8.u8	This has put an end to the term of office. I see the Secretary of State is getting up. In doing so, he indicates that he can respond to the two motions tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-8.u9	Mr. Chairman. It might be good to start by getting back where the settlement came from. In 2012, when the appropriate education Act was adopted by the Chamber, it was already decided to opt for a settlement. The regulation now before us sets out the exact percentages for which it is to be applied. It has also been discussed in detail at the time and research has also been carried out into the most fair distribution of care resources across the country. The Evaluation and Advisory Committee on appropriate education, which includes all kinds of scientists and experts, has carried out thorough research into this and indicated that there is no reason to believe that there are regional differences in education and care needs in the Netherlands. It is not the case that in South Limburg, in Noordoost-Groningen or in the Randstad there are significantly more children with a care question than in other parts of the country. That is why it has been said: we need to consider whether we can simply distribute the funds more evenly across the Netherlands, equal to the numbers of pupils. So we should not divide it by the number of home-owners or, as Mr van Meenen seems to suggest, on the basis of data from the past or the numbers of children in special education, but simply equal for each child. That's what's going on right now. I would advise against Mrs Siderius' motion because it says that the unequal distribution of resources in the Netherlands must be maintained. I don't think that's wise. I would also advise against Mr Van Meenen's motion for a resolution because it proposes the allocation of resources on the basis of the number of home seats. It is not entirely clear to me whether regions with many homeowners should receive more or less money. I heard Mr Van Meenen say in his speech that he wants to build up an incentive to encourage partnerships to bring down the number of homeowners. I find that an interesting idea in itself, but I do not think you should use the instrument of settlement for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-8.u10	For the sake of clarity, of course, it is my intention to reward in the settlement that a partnership has few homeowners. There can be no misunderstanding about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-8.u11	I had already understood something like this from the debate, but that is not in this motion. I consider the instrument of settlement to be particularly inappropriate to steer on the number of home seats. I would like to see what you can do to encourage partnerships, perhaps with a financial incentive, to bring down the number of homeowners. But the problem of homeowners is not the only issue that has to do with appropriate education. A lot of children who go to school need budget from appropriate education. To focus everything on this only target group would be really unwise. In other words, I would advise against both motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-8.u12	We shall be voting on the motions for resolutions tabled next Tuesday.
