ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-3.u1	I welcome the Secretary of State for Education. The first speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr Bishop. He has ten minutes' speaking time, as can be seen on the new panel. So he can see how much time he has left.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. The new panel indeed looks perfect. I expect to be able to conclude my speech well within ten minutes. What do you have to do if you're a driver or a car driver with bad vision at night? Do you have to put on glasses even if you have good eyes? Well, at least you've got an extra tool. It doesn't make much sense. It is wiser to ensure that the ventilation works properly so that the windows do not cover, that the lighting works well and that the headlights shine brightly, and if necessary you turn on big light. That's the picture I had to think about when I studied this bill. It has been on the agenda as a hammer piece and my group is the instigator of the fact that we are discussing it here. She believes that this is not the way to do it. Instead of making use of the existing resources, we are now discussing a proposal to resort to an additional tool, the question of which is whether it works. The SGP Group believes that this can be simpler. "Less rules, better education" should actually be the headline above the press release sent when this measure is given more publicity. It is a good thing that we finally received a specific regulatory pressure agenda in the week before Christmas, and it is our intention to prevent us from bringing back the burdens that we have to deal with through the front door in this way. How does this proposal relate to the new regulatory printing agenda? Can we perhaps, by not introducing this, reduce the regulatory burden in advance rather than having to take the decision afterwards that it can be reduced in time? The key question in dealing with this issue today is for my group whether we are talking about the need for education or whether this regulation is primarily about a political need. What does the number of development perspectives say about the quality of appropriate education? The sobering answer is: nothing in principle. A partnership with a high level of basic support may have a limited number of development perspectives. You might ask yourself whether such a partnership is doing good or bad. You'd say, "Good." Then the question is asked: you have very few development prospects, how can that be? The answer will then be because we are doing so well. In other words, the registration of the numbers actually doesn't say anything about the quality. It is also possible to prevent one school from drawing up a plan for the same support while the other school does not, because the approach is much more integrated into the educational environment of the school. The inspection has no idea of the substantive background to the development prospects. Therefore, the SGP is not clear why the number of development perspectives is a useful starting point for a conversation. In any case, the legislative proposal does not provide any scientific basis, which should be possible in the case of such a technical proposal. Is it logical to start the investigation after the proposal has been introduced? That seems to me to be the reverse order. The SGP understands very well that the government and the Chamber want to have a clear view on the introduction of appropriate education. My group shares that. Keeping the finger on the wrist and making sure that the money ends well, we wholeheartedly agree with that. Therefore, the SGP is not clear why the number of development perspectives is a useful starting point for a conversation. In any case, the bill does not provide any scientific basis. We would say that this should be possible with such a technical proposal. Is it logical to start the investigation after the proposal has been introduced? That seems to us to be the reverse order. The SGP understands very well that the government and also the Chamber want a clear view on the introduction of appropriate education. We share that. We wholeheartedly agree that we must keep our finger on the pulse and ensure that the money ends up properly. It is just not clear why this proposal is the least burdensome measure. Does not the use of existing resources give a much better picture? In other words, put the headlights on the main light again. If there is no counterweight, it can clarify and help with the safety and progress of the journey. Progress reports show how much information is already available. There's registration of homeowners. This says something about the objective of appropriate education. The inspection has information based on surveys in schools. Why are these qualitative data not preferable to quantitative data? They say nothing in advance and cost more. At least they take more time. Many bits make a lot of things. So to avoid a lot, we have to be critical of the bits. This proposal creates an additional registration burden of about five minutes per pupil with a development perspective. Does the government recognise that such obligations lead to the idea that education has become a major registration mill? Is this really worth the trouble? The SGP wants to avoid unnecessary bureaucracy. Recording all development perspectives is not useful. What can be useful is to follow students who make the transition from special forms of education to regular education and from students who are placed in an orthopedagogic-didactic centre. I have therefore tabled an amendment proposing that registration for regular education should be directed at these groups. This will reduce the burden and keep an eye on the most vulnerable pupils. I would like to receive a response from the govern ment. I very much hope that today, when we discuss this proposal, we will come to a balanced decision and, above all, that we are aware that these many little ones really make one big one. We must avoid increasing the burden per pupil, even if it seems to be only a little. That is not the right direction. From this concern, and from the point of view of providing appropriate education with good form and content, I advocate being very reluctant about this. Mr President, thank you very much for the opportunity to speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-3.u3	Thank you for speaking. I give the floor to Mr Van Meenen. He has five minutes' speaking time on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-3.u4	Mr. Chairman. Although I almost traditionally very much agree with Mr Bishop, I have come to a different conclusion for the time being. This bill is the result of the Klever/Dijsselbloem/Van der Ham motion, which calls for more insight into the extra support of pupils. The visibility of the amount of pupils with additional support serves as a tool for inspection in monitoring, and helps to assess the effectiveness of appropriate education. Among other things, the evaluation committee has said that proper registration is necessary in order to determine whether pupils who need additional support receive it. At the same time, students' privacy must be central. We have to be careful not to register too much sensitive data about students. Unfortunately, we have seen in recent months with the Basispoort issue that this is not always self-evident. The debate on this issue has yet to take place. I hope that can happen soon. I think that this proposal has struck a good balance between, on the one hand, a view of the number of students with additional support and, on the other hand, the privacy of those students. After all, it is only recorded that there is a development perspective and not exactly what that support looks like. However, I still have some critical questions about this. First of all, my question is whether it is necessary to register which students receive additional support, rather than just how many. The Secretary of State says this is necessary to gain insight into the school career of students. Can the Secretary of State indicate exactly how the inspection uses this insight to say something about the quality of appropriate education? I then read in the explanatory memorandum that the data from BRON are sent anonymised to the inspection and the Ministry, but that the CBS receives the non-anonymised data. Can the Secretary of State go into this a little further? Why is the data that the CBS receives not also anonymized? I understand Mr Bishop's concerns about the burden. I think, however, that it is not so bad. I think it's pretty high estimate that you need five minutes to put a check mark behind a student's name. Anyway, let's ask the Secretary of State if he really is. In view of the quality of the appropriate education, it is not excluded in advance that the number of pupils with a development perspective can be an indication of their functioning. It is, of course, never enough, but it is a bit too far for me to say in advance: let us not perceive that. I believe that at this stage, at least in principle, we can use all the data and should use it to maximize that visibility. So far, I am convinced that it may be an indication of further research. That is why my group will support this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-3.u5	Mr. Chairman. The SP considers it important that we follow the development of students with a care question in mainstream education well. My party is not in favour of the introduction of so-called appropriate education, because we see that care pupils have to find their way in mainstream education, but do not always have the right support for behavioural problems or physical constraints. The classes are too large and extra guidance has been quietly cut down over the years. The SP believes that we should recognise that for some of the pupils special education is the only appropriate place of education. However, there is a parliamentary majority in favour of this system change. As of 1 August 2014, students will have to ask for regular education. It is therefore important that we follow closely how many children are involved and whether students with a support question fail early, often sit down or fall down to a lower school level.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-3.u6	Of course, this debate is not about appropriate education and whether or not it should be. 'Cause it's already there. Mrs Siderius gives the impression that with the introduction of appropriate education special education has disappeared and that pupils are forced to go to regular education. Does Mrs Siderius agree with me that this is not necessarily the case and that there is still special education for those students who need it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-3.u7	This depends on the decision taken by the grouping. You know that, too. You know the report the SP presented. The SP has carried out research among parents and teachers on the introduction of appropriate education. This shows that some parents would prefer to have their child in special education, but that the partnership does not want to do so. This means that the child does not receive the most appropriate education. We also recently had a debate on appropriate education. Many examples have been given to show that appropriate education has not yet fully developed. I call The Parachute in Zoetermeer. I am also thinking of the example of the boy who could not get funding in mainstream education, because he had to be financed out of two clusters. There are many examples. We are therefore still very sceptical. You got that right. I know that this debate is not about that. Let me now turn to what is decided with this bill. I'm almost done with my input, by the way. I can tell you that the SP will support this bill wholeheartedly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-3.u8	The latter is good to hear, although it is the least of my worrys. The people are, of course, stuck to the pipe right now to see how this debate will end. They should not be given the impression that their child has become a game of partnership. We agree that things are going wrong, we could almost foresee that, but things have gone wrong in the past too. At that time, it was the exact opposite: pupils were more or less forced to attend special education, while they might have been able to go to regular education with support. That's my problem with such images. Our efforts must be aimed at ensuring that all children are brought to justice and put in the best possible place. However, it goes a little too far to say that if a child does not come to his senses, this is the fault of appropriate education and that it is once ideal. Even in the past it was not ideal, I can report from my own experience. I don't have any questions about it, but I just want to take that image away.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-3.u9	Maybe I can deal with the D66 Group a little bit. Whatever system we come up with, there will always be incidents. There will always be children who do not receive the most appropriate education. I think we can agree on that. The former system was not ideal, but we are seriously questioning the new system. In the course of the legislative process, we have argued in detail why the change in the system might not have been so sensible and why we should perhaps have chosen to improve the previous education system. The SP considers it important to follow how children are affected when they have a question of care in mainstream education. This was a gap in the appropriate education Act, because this law removed student-related funding. The present bill restores this gap and the SP is happy to do so. Following students is necessary in order to be able to make policy statements and also to carry out qualitative research into the experience with appropriate education. The SP values that. The SP has two more questions. Is it possible that, apart from the numbers and statistics, the Chamber will be informed annually about the influx, the flow, possibly the early outflow, the number of sitters and the number of pupils changing school levels, so that the Chamber can draw its own conclusions? In addition, it would be no mistake to include the figures on youth care and the new Youth Act in the monitoring of appropriate education, as 80% of young people in the youth care sector end up in the appropriate education system. Is the Secretary of State prepared to do this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-3.u10	Mr. Chairman. Every child has the right to good education. The appropriate education ensures that schools can get the best out of each child by offering customization. To ensure that this happens, it is desirable to register if children receive additional support, so that we are sure that every child will receive the guidance they need. In this way we keep a grip on the quality of education for children with an additional need for support. With the introduction of appropriate education, student-related funding, the so-called backpack, has disappeared and is no longer automatically registered which children need additional support and guidance. This bill regulates the registration in the Primary Register of Education of the number of children and which children have a development perspective. This registration provides important information on the extent to which education succeeds in reaching all young people with a need for support and on how their school careers develop, in accordance with the request in the Klever/Dijsselbloem/Van der Ham motion, which is widely supported here, also by D66 and VVD. We would like to thank the Secretary of State for drafting that motion in this bill. In this way we gain insight into which students need support and the inspection or the NRO can carry out research on the qualitative state of the appropriate education on the basis of these quantitative data. It is a good thing that a system with little administrative burden has been chosen. Schools only need to put a check mark in BRON (Basisregister Onderwijs) with this proposal. If that is no longer necessary, the inspection will have to request all the individual data from schools. That will lead to a lot more burdens. The Labour Party can therefore wholeheartedly support this bill. We hope that this will again contribute to appropriate education for every child.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-3.u11	That's how it's gonna be. Let's move on to the next speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-3.u12	Mr. Chairman. Appropriate education means that there must be an appropriate place in education for each pupil. Every child must be given the opportunity to develop his or her talents and every student deserves the education that suits his or her talents. According to the VVD, what students can do must be central. That is why the VVD is in favour of appropriate education, based not on the problem with which the child is labeled, but on what the child can do, and where pupils do not fall between feet. Appropriate education is precisely intended to prevent this kind of misery and to stop sending parents and students from the locker to the wall, but to offer them a solution. With the introduction of care obligations and appropriate education on 1 August last, apprenticeship-related funding has expired. As a result, the number of pupils with an additional need for support in education is no longer visible. In order to keep an eye on this group for monitoring, monitoring and evaluation, this law regulates the registration of this group of pupils following the motion of members Klaver, Dijsselbloem and Van der Ham, which was adopted in the Chamber. Contrary to what Mrs Ypma said, the VVD voted against this motion. When the appropriate education Act was introduced, it was agreed that the administrative burden would be reduced. A bureaucracy sheriff has even been set up to send signals to the Chamber if unnecessary red tape occurs. After all, the idea of appropriate education was precisely to give the schools room to work together in a responsible way to ensure that every child reaches a good place in education. In order to meet the wishes of the majority of the Chamber which adopted the motion, this amendment proposes a registration requirement, which will monitor whether this is done properly. However, this obligation to register is an additional administrative burden. The VVD is still not happy with this. At the same time, I can imagine that we want to monitor, especially in the initial phase, whether the change in the system of appropriate education is working. As far as the VVD is concerned, this registration is therefore only temporary. I have tabled an amendment to that effect. If we see that appropriate education is going to work, registration may end in the long term. However, the VVD would prefer to see schools themselves being transparent about how they implement appropriate education, for example through Windows for Accountability. The explanatory statement states that this is not an option now because not all schools are participating in it. According to the VVD, we should strive for all schools to participate in Accountability Windows and report how many students receive additional support. This change in the law for compulsory registration would not have been necessary at all. I would like to receive a response from the Secretary of State. Summary: The VVD is in favour of appropriate education, but is alert to unnecessary bureaucracy around it. Hence my amendment concerning the temporary nature of this registration. Should the amendment not receive sufficient support in the Chamber, I will have to advise my group to vote against this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-3.u13	I'm a little confused. I read in the written contribution in the report that the VVD Group has taken note of this bill and that it considers it a useful contribution. What happened between the time when the input for the report was made and the moment when we are having the debate? That's what I'm curious about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-3.u14	As a result of the fact that we voted against the original motion, we discussed it internally. Is the additional bureaucracy of introducing this registration justified? As I said, we can imagine that in the early stages of appropriate education you would like to keep a finger on the pulse to check whether the system works and whether the means are going to end up where they need to go, namely with the children they need. That is why we initially thought: if you are going to do it, do it, as is proposed now, in a light way and follow exactly what is proposed in the legislative proposal. Talking about this, we did think: if the system of appropriate education is working, for example, if the evaluation shows that, you could also decide to abolish registration. That's a proposition I'm making here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-3.u15	It is remarkable that there has been a change in the position, but that can of course be done. It is also remarkable that a member of the VVD Chamber of Commerce, in connection with a proposal from the VVD Secretary of State, has already announced that its group will vote against the amendment if it is not adopted. I have two questions about that. My first question is: how can you install such a horizon clause when we want to follow the school career of students? This means that you have to follow the school career for a long time to see if the appropriate education has the desired effect. For that, you have to look at further education. Do kids sit around more often? Is the development perspective of primary education also used in secondary education? My second question is this. In answering the questions, the Secretary of State made it very clear that this would entail the least administrative burden. We are fighting together to reduce the burden. If, however, the Secretary of State makes this clear so emphatically, if he states that this will have to be checked out by school and that this will create additional burdens for the school, the inspection and research institutes such as the NRO, why is the VVD Group so critical about this and, more importantly, does it want to build in a horizon?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-3.u16	We would like the system of appropriate education to work. We wanted it to happen when the law was passed in the Chamber. At that time, a number of parties made the proposal to introduce this registration to keep the finger on the wrist from the Chamber, as it were. Again, we can understand this because it allows us to see if the system is going to do what we all intended. There will be a moment, however, I think that this could be at the time of the evaluation, if we find that the system is working and that we are able to put an end to this administration, which we have just built in to monitor initially whether the system is working. Following children in their careers should, in my opinion, simply be taken into account and resolved within the appropriate education system. It should not be said from the Chamber how you should do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-3.u17	First of all, I would like to know what the VVD Group is thinking about. In what period can registration be abolished again? Another point is the following. The argument of the VVD is that it is so bureaucratic and that the schools have to register all that. However, it appears that the introduction of appropriate education has only resulted in more bureaucracy. In special education, if you had to have a budget, you could go to the rec to get it there. Now you have to go to municipalities, care institutions and partnerships. During the previous debate, I gave an example of a school which has to negotiate with six health care institutions, three partnerships and eight municipalities. If the VVD is so eager to abolish bureaucracy, shouldn't we just cut into it instead of saying: we don't think policy statistics are so important, because we don't think it's important to consider whether appropriate education is working?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-3.u18	I do not share Mrs Siderius' last observation. I think I have also argued exactly the opposite. We are tabling this amendment because we want to monitor whether the appropriate education system is working. So I do not share that last conclusion at all. Mrs Siderius has given examples of how there might be more bureaucracy for partnerships and schools. On the other hand, there are as many examples of schools which find this new system more pleasurable and believe that it gives them greater freedom of action.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-3.u19	Then I'd like names and numbers. I haven't heard from a school that they experience less bureaucracy as a result of the introduction of appropriate education. I gave the example of Bram, who simply doesn't get funding because he happens to have two kinds of limitations and therefore doesn't fit in the right box. It is, of course, the pinnacle that children do not get the right care at school, because it is so bureaucratic and complicated that even a school director can't get through it. What schools do you think this is so fantastic?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-3.u20	I was recently visiting the Stichting Swalm & Roer. She was very pleased with the way things were going.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-3.u21	That's one school!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-3.u22	That's one school board with 35 different schools.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-3.u23	Finally, I give the floor to Mr Beertema. He asked for two minutes' speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-3.u24	Mr. Chairman. View of students with extra support is necessary. Even quantitative data on pupils with additional support needs in mainstream education at national level are, as far as we are concerned, important. This certainly applies to the first cohorts we will work with with with appropriate education. We actually considered this amendment to be a hammer piece. We also agree with the amendment. Nevertheless, Mr Bishop has raised a number of interesting questions. I look forward to receiving the answers from the Secretary of State. Mrs Straus also comes with a new insight. That makes this debate a little bit interesting, especially since the coalition is drawing up a fitty. I always enjoy that. I'm just saying that I didn't really want to talk because I don't have any questions or additions. I was put on the list of speakers, because at least I will have the opportunity to interrupt. I think that's a new rule. This new rule may sometimes make debates unnecessarily long.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-3.u25	I'll take that last point and pass it on. I shall suspend the sitting for five minutes to give the Secretary of State the opportunity to prepare for his first term. So we're moving on in five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-3.u26	I look carefully at the Secretary of State or he can begin.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-3.u27	Mr. Chairman. I thank the MPs for their contribution to the bill. This bill was actually made at the request of a large majority in the Chamber when examining the appropriate education bill in 2012. Then a motion was tabled by GroenLinks, the Labour Party and D66 who wanted to gain more insight into the support needs at school level and within partnerships. At that time, there was no choice to amend the law at that time because, when it comes to data recording, it is sometimes better to go down the royal road and let the Council of State and the College of Protection look at personal data in a good way. That has been done; they have looked at it, and that has, in my view, led to a careful legislative proposal. This bill is ahead of us today. Of course, you always start with the question of what exactly is the point and necessity of the bill. This was also mentioned in the contributions of the spokesmen in the first term. In my opinion, these data provide a basis for monitoring and evaluating appropriate education. I say to Mr Bishop that this is not just a political wish. The General Court of Auditors, the CPB and the Evaluation and Advisory Committee on Appropriate Education all indicate that you really need to know a little more about how appropriate education descends into the partnerships in order to see if it goes well. We will soon know if students with additional support need also have a "continuing school career." What does that mean? We know, for example, whether students with a development perspective are just doing eight years about an elementary school or whether they take longer about it and are therefore more often left behind. We know whether these same students receive additional support both in primary and secondary school. We know whether a student who goes from regular education to special education has received additional support in the information provision in regular education. In the long term, we can see whether pupils with additional support in secondary school are drained at the expected final level or whether they are more likely to drain to a lower education level than other pupils. In other words, does a student with a developmental perspective obtain the expected diploma, as the primary school has advised?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-3.u28	There is an interruption by Mr Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-3.u29	Yeah, that's because of following students who've been assigned to appropriate education. Of course, appropriate education can also be finite. At the time when a student has had sufficient support, levelled up and no longer needs additional support, he disappears from the sight of appropriate education and also from the sight of this registration. At least, if I interpret that correctly. It is not possible for such a student to continue to be followed, year after year, even if he is no longer given a development perspective. Did I get that correctly? Or is it intended that all pupils who have ever had additional support in appropriate education should continue to follow their school life for a long time?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-3.u30	Without making a big deal out of it, we follow all students throughout the Netherlands. We'll do that by means of BRON. We know when students have started a school career, when they go to secondary school, what diplomas they get, how long they do about that, etc. In my view, these are all very relevant data because they say something about the effectiveness of the system and how it works. What we are adding to that now is that we know from the students whether they have received additional support at any time in their school careers and, if so, for how long. With this data you can enrich the evaluation of the system in one way or another and also gain insight into the school career of children who sooner or later receive additional support.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-3.u31	This means that there is already an insight into the additional support that students receive at present through current apprenticeship follow-up systems. In my view, that illustrates once again that this registration is therefore unnecessary. I'm gonna take another point, and I'm gonna take the check mark, which is gonna almost lead my own life. This check mark, which only needs to be placed, completely ignores the additional registration burden, to which the ruler will undoubtedly come back, for the introduction of data from each pupil affected by appropriate education. Those are the five minutes I mentioned in my speech. My question to the Secretary of State is this. Is it, therefore, true that the current apprenticeship system already allows pupils to attend their school careers, apart from the question of whether or not they use appropriate education facilities?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-3.u32	I'll come back to the administrative burden later. The answer to Mr Bishop's question is no. Otherwise, the bill wouldn't have been there either. We have a nationwide registration system, SOURCE, in which due to due diligence, it is laid down by law what exactly can be registered at what time. This is checked by all kinds of bodies that consider whether it is prudent and necessary to keep records. For that we have the College Protection Personal Data. If this bill is not passed, then we have no idea when children will receive additional support in their school careers at any time. Perhaps I can also point this out by the way in which these data are applied, partly in the field of research, partly in the area of monitoring. Let me start with the first one. The data itself is always the basis for further research. For example, through the National Institute of Education Research, we continue educational research. The data are not fully comparable, as partnerships can fill in their basic support themselves. Then you will also see that there will be differences between partnerships. They determine what belongs to the basic support, for example when students need additional support. This additional support will require a development perspective. It may therefore be different in one region than in another, but it is a starting point, also for the evaluation committee, to look at how things are going in the future and to be able to interpret these differences. When it comes to monitoring, the quality of support may also be discussed by school on the basis of these data. The number of development perspectives per school is used for risk-oriented monitoring. That doesn't mean you're looking behind your desk to see if anything's going well or not. Those numbers don't immediately say anything about that. But it's a reason for a conversation. For example, if there are a lot of development perspectives at one school in a partnership in relation to other schools, this may be a policy choice of the partnership, but it may also mean that the school cannot meet the chosen level of basic support. The inspection can then talk about this to see if the children or such a school get an appropriate offer. I would like to mention this in order to give an example and to make it clear why keeping this data is useful. Mr Van Meenen asked why these data are kept at apprenticeship level and not, for example, at school level, immediately aggregated. This has to do with the fact that if you do so at the apprenticeship level, you can also follow the school careers, for example the transition from primary to secondary education. This is particularly important for the purposes of evaluation, research and a deeper understanding of the functioning of the system. I come to the administrative burden. We shouldn't beat around the bush. With the adoption of this bill, the administrative burden will rise slightly, but it is a very small increase. We have chosen the most minimal variant. At the same time, we must consider this in the context of the overall operation and the transition from education to appropriate education. When I put these two things on the scale, looking at the enormous deregulation that has taken place in appropriate education, it is almost a conclusion difference. We've been asked about those five minutes. Does that really take five minutes? At some point you will choose the smallest possible unit, I would like to say to Mr Van Meenen, although I think that a school might indeed be able to do it much faster. This does not create huge administrative burdens for schools. So I think we have managed to find a good balance. A lot of basic student data is usually already in the system. Then it is only a matter of indicating at what time and when the student receives a development perspective.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-3.u33	A clear story. I am sure that the administrative burden can be extremely limited when it comes to this bill. To reassure the field and the viewers at home the following. The cabinet has been there for about two years and four months. The coalition agreement already states that there would be an operation dust comb. We've talked about that several times. So that operation's been going on for a long time. When are we going to see the result of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-3.u34	The Chamber received a whole set of rules for the various levels of education just before the ceremony. Together with the field and the social partners, employers and trade unions, we have indicated that these are things that can be abolished. Mr Bertema or Mr Bishop referred to the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-3.u35	I apologize that I didn't notice that, but I'm sure that was related to the birth of my granddaughter. That has given me all kinds of pressure that I haven't gotten to. I'm going to study the package.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-3.u36	Happy birthday to you, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-3.u37	Yes, chairman, to which Mr Van Meenen referred, is also relevant to the viewers at home. This is a joyous fact. Welcome to education in four years' time. We've also looked at alternatives. We have considered whether it can be done in another way, in order to reduce the administrative burden even further. Then you can think of separate questioning, but such a survey by, for example, the inspection or research offices would mean even more workload for schools. That is why we have chosen to do so. Also, a system along the road of Accountability Windows, referred to by Mrs Straus and referred to by the sectoral councils in their input, is not currently a watertight system, partly because participation in Windows is voluntary. We just know that in secondary education far from all schools participate. In primary education, it is still in its infancy. You can't follow the continuous school career of students along that road of registration either. Even in the event that Windows would provide full coverage at some point, you will have to consider what the figures say and how they relate to the way of registering as proposed in the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-3.u38	We have spoken before in this house about the fact that not all schools participate in Windows for Accountability. We are also very often receiving reports from education that people find it very annoying that we come up with measures from The Hague over and over again. Is the Secretary of State prepared to engage with the Education Councils again in order to see how it can be ensured that all schools participate in Accountability Windows? In this way we do not need to take some measures from The Hague.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-3.u39	I am more than willing to do that. Right now, I'm having those conversations, too. I have previously promised the Chamber on behalf of the Cabinet to give a vision of public accountability, professional accountability and transparency in education. Of this, this is a very important element. However, I agree with Mrs Straus that, as Windows for Accountability works better, this can also remove some pressure from the sector. This applies not only to the appropriate education component, but also to many more matters, including regular inspection supervision. If it provides reliable data and if the schools keep them accurate so that they are up-to-date, the inspection does not need to request them again. But as long as the data isn't up-to-date and covering, you're dealing with doubles.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-3.u40	I fully share that view with the Secretary of State, but it turns out that schools in some way do not see the interest they themselves have in joining and participating in Windows for Accountability. Does the Secretary of State see an opportunity in his talks to highlight explicitly the importance of schools themselves to participate in this and the enlightenment offered to them in other areas? I'd love for schools to pick up this ball themselves and join in with Windows for Accountability.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-3.u41	I'll do it and I'll do it all the time. I find it a little harsh: it is a system of schools themselves and not all schools participate. It has, however, been financed to a large extent by public funds from education budgets. I think that politics should be critical to the Chamber and the Cabinet that this leads to a system that shows all parents and all students "where is my school?'. In the long term, it should also lead to a different way of accountability, perhaps more intrinsically motivated and with less administrative burden in formal systems. That only works if everyone's in. As long as the sector is not sufficiently aware of this, it remains a system on which we cannot fully rely. Mr Bishop wondered whether this is now necessary. Can't we do it some other way? I have just given a number of arguments. He asked: is this scientifically substantiated or evidence-based? That is, of course, difficult to say, because how do you conduct scientific research into a new way of working that has actually just been introduced? I'd like to turn it around. In order to be able to make evidence-based statements about appropriate education, it is important that we follow students and it is important to know how the system works. With this, in my view, administratively light form of registering this additional support, we will be able to make more informed statements about how our system works. Questions have also been asked about data due diligence and keeping track of it. What do you keep track of and how is it handled? What exactly can we say about that? What data can we link? I say to Mrs Siderius: at the moment we are also keeping a lot of records. She asked about flowing, sitting around and all that sadness. That data is already available annually, for example via data.duo.nl. There, these large databases are available with the core data on the functioning of the system. Through Trends in Beeld, the Chamber is informed of this every year. Those are all things you can involve. With regard to the direct link with youth care, I believe that these two issues will be discussed more and more in conjunction. In the previous AO on appropriate education, I promised that I would pay extra attention to the interfaces in the next progress report because of the decentralisations that started on 1 January. That is not possible for the immediate linking of data. First of all, there is no basis for that in the law and you have to keep wondering critically what that data is saying. Everything you capture is another risk to privacy. We have not yet found it necessary to link those files as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-3.u42	Two points. I was specifically concerned with this group of 40,000 students who were still registered with the student-related funding. It would be nice if we could get data on this 40,000. Suppose next year it turns out that only 20,000 have a development perspective, then suddenly 20,000 are missing. It may be that they are suddenly no longer receiving support, but because it is a major change in the education system, we as a parliamentary group would like to have data on this in the first few years. The second point concerns youth care. I really don't need private data on people, but you can look at certain regions. Of course, we have these partnerships, but there are also within the youth care regions. What care is bought in, and does it match the number of students registered within the partnerships? Well, that's interesting information, isn't it? Many children may be registered with care at school while the municipalities spend little money on care paths for young people. There's a gap there. How is that possible? We need to be able to dig deeper into that, so I would ask the Secretary of State to forward this to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-3.u43	The first question has been the reason for this bill. We can now see how the number of children is fluctuating that gets a development perspective on top of the basic support that schools already offer. You can then follow that over time: it becomes more, it gets less, you see varieties in different regions et cetera. That can then be involved in the debate. The second question concerns a further link with registration data in the field of youth care. I do not want to anticipate the matter immediately on this point, although I can imagine that these two issues are relevant. The linking of files always creates interesting things that are worth studying, but you always have to carefully wonder if it is really necessary. We apply a number of principles in the registration of personal data, with the principle of necessity and the principle of care very important. Everything you capture must have a legal basis. If Mrs Siderius wishes to do so, I myself am not in favour of it, then the law must first be amended. I can't just cough up one-two-three.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-3.u44	I'll fight that. I would like to say here that we have two major changes: one in health care and one in education. There is, of course, also a change in social security, but this has less to do with it. We think we should look at it all in its entirety, but when it comes to figures and data, things suddenly get difficult and there are all kinds of bulkheads falling down. Then suddenly no figures can be put next to each other, and that at least strikes me as striking. I am sorry that the Secretary of State does not agree to this, but I would like to ask him whether he would like to look at the possibilities for this in the progress report.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-3.u45	In the next progress report on appropriate education, I can at least indicate where there are interfaces. Perhaps that is also the right time to have the debate on whether we have enough data to say something about it. Of course, we have a lot of data, a lot of data about pupils in education, and so does care and youth care. The only thing missing is a direct link at person level. The question is whether you need that to be able to say sensible things about it, because that link also brings with it risks and needs to be laid down by law. That requires a very careful process. If there is a broad shared wish in the Chamber to do so, I do not know if that is the case or if only Mrs Siderius has that wish, then I can imagine that the College of Protection is also very critical of personal data. After all, the CBP says that the government cannot just record all of this and automatically connect it to each other. To sum up, in the progress report before the summer, at least I will highlight those two policy areas and indicate how we will keep our finger on the pulse at the intersection of education and care. Then the Chamber can decide for itself whether we have sufficient information to do so in a careful and good way. Before I go into the two amendments that have been tabled, there is still a question from Mr Van Meenen concerning the limitation of data. I have just indicated that we have made a trade-off with this bill in order to reduce very much the data stored. The point is that a student has a development perspective, but not why or what exactly is in it. That narrows it down a lot. In addition, anonymisations or aggregations take place when the figures are provided to the Ministry. The reason why this doesn't happen to CBS, even now with the data in SOURCE, is that CBS is also able to look at what happens after the school career and to make a link with labour market data. The CBS can see where children end up. There are strict agreements with the CBS that such data may only be disclosed in the form of statements, in respect of institutions, if this does not lead to identifiable data at the level of individual households or individuals. This is already a practice and I believe that, with due care, it will continue to work well in the future. Two amendments have been tabled, first of all Mr Bishop's amendment. I would like to discourage that amendment, because it actually cuts the heart out of the legislative proposal and makes it so minimal, just in the border traffic between regular and special education, that it doesn't say anything about how pupils do it within regular education, but with additional support. I am therefore not in favour of this amendment. With her amendment, Mrs Straus wishes to add a horizon clause to the legislative proposal. I am not immediately in a position to do so in principle. It often happens, as we see in the regulatory printing agenda, that a law that is very relevant at one point suddenly no longer seems necessary and can be abolished. This amendment, should it be adopted, could be adopted in a fairly simple way, namely by Royal Decree, rather than a complete legislative amendment or repeal of a legislative proposal by Parliament. I would like to leave the opinion on this amendment to the Chamber, albeit with a number of notes on how I feel about it. If we're gonna do this, I think we're gonna have to do this for years to come. So the first time you could carefully consider whether it is necessary would not be before the formal review in 2020, i.e. in five years' time. The second entry I want to make is next. If you say at some point that the law is no longer necessary, you always have to weigh it against the alternatives that are then available. We have just had the discussion about Windows for Accountability. I hope it will be better in that area in five years' time, but you have to see that. I think it also depends on how appropriate education is developing. Is there still a need for the data that we would like to have available in five or ten years' time to keep a finger on the wrist? I think there will have to be another debate on this. If you are going to do it in a different way, i.e. no longer at the level of the individual pupil, then of course it is always the case that you might be able to say something about the number of development perspectives per school or per partnership. That way you can say less about the school careers of students, or maybe that way you can say nothing more about that. I think that's relevant information. Having said that, I must also say that a horizon clause in the law, without a specific end date, cannot immediately harm. That is why I would like to leave the opinion on this amendment to the House.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-3.u46	Of course, the Secretary of State may think that if this amendment is not adopted, the VVD will vote against it, so let me leave the opinion on the amendment to the House. I assume, however, that the Secretary of State really means this in terms of content. That's why I have a question about this. Children who now start elementary school and receive some extra support will not finish high school until ten or fourteen years from now. Only then will we know about the entire school career of these students. If the Secretary of State takes his own bill seriously, doesn't he really want to follow that school career? That's also in the motivation. This means that we would not want to abolish registration for such a long time. Wouldn't it be much wiser if the Secretary of State promised here that he would take this with him in the 2020 review? Then we can look at what happened to the data. Is it still useful and do we want to continue? Would it not be wiser to include this explicitly in the evaluation which will then take place instead of doing what is proposed in this amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-3.u47	I am not so much concerned about the support for this bill, because I have listened and I believe that there is a broad majority for this law, with the support of the VVD, but also without its support. I have just said that I do not think this is a very fundamental point. That's why I'm bringing it to the Chamber. Then we will see whether there is a majority for or against this amendment. This is a way of introducing a possibility in the legislative proposal and in the law to put this off in a fairly simple way, should it be said at some point that it is no longer necessary to keep up with it. Mrs Ypma thinks that if you want to be able to say something about the full school career of students for the first time, five years is actually a very short term. I agree with her. However, that is in fact in line with what I have just said about a different way of registering. Such a different registration, e.g. through Accountability Windows, makes it complicated at all to keep track of data at the individual pupil level in the future. There is a difference between the level of individual pupils and the level of institutions. Then, in my view, that will be a subject of discussion in this Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-3.u48	The position of the Secretary of State and mine on this matter is very close. We agree that you should continue to follow for a longer time and that this should be done at an individual level. Of course, we want every law to be abolished as soon as it is no longer necessary. If we were to include that in this law, we would actually have to include it as a final sentence in every law. That is why I am surprised by the Secretary of State's vote. I'm gonna suggest to the Secretary of State to get closer to the VVD. I think this amendment is superfluous and even misplaced given the short time and the evaluation that is still to come. I ask him to get closer to achieving the same thing, but not through such a final sentence that you could actually incorporate into any law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-3.u49	This is up to Parliament, I'd say. I hope that I have indicated with sufficient conviction why I am in favour of this bill and why it is useful and necessary. At some point you can say things are no longer necessary. Together with the Minister, I have sent to the Chamber a whole bunch of proposals which we believe may lapse. The reason for this bill was that, if we go to this new system, we want to keep our finger on the pulse for some time. Then it may be at some point that we are looking at this, for example in the review in 2020, which is an important moment. I wouldn't want to think about it before. One doesn't have to rule out the other. I can take it with me in the evaluation. It is up to Mrs Straus to say, if this is enough for her, that she does not think this amendment is necessary. If she wants to maintain the amendment, I see no objection in principle. That's why I'm leaving the verdict to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-3.u50	I have often introduced horizontal provisions into legislative changes, not only in education, but also in the previous period in health care. I think it is a very nice addition to the law because it makes us aware that there can be a time when laws become obsolete again or at least are no longer functional. In that sense, I recorded it here. We haven't indicated a provision in time. I am fine with the Secretary of State saying that, as far as I am concerned, the evaluation of appropriate education is the first time we look at this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-3.u51	I don't think that's a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-3.u52	It's a confirmation of what I just suggested.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-3.u53	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-3.u54	I'm ready, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-3.u55	That's even better. I look at the members to see if there is a need for a second term. I see virtually everyone shaking no, except Mr Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-3.u56	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-3.u57	Excuse me, I need another button.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-3.u58	It takes some getting used to, such a display! Mr. Chairman. Of course I would like to take the floor, if only to thank the Secretary of State for answering the questions. Although it was not entirely satisfactory in terms of content, it was argued. It is good to pay attention to this in this way. I note that the Secretary of State gave a crystal clear answer to the first question. That question was: is this need coming from the field of education or is it, above all, a political need? The Secretary of State replied: it is more than a political need, because the General Court, statisticians and so on all need it. Indeed, in the list mentioned by the Secretary of State, every educational institution and every educational organisation was missing. In other words, it underlines that this is not a need that so much serves education and comes from education, but that it is a need that comes from the bosom of politics. That doesn't have to be reprehensible in itself, but you have to wonder if we're not asking over. I admit and agree with the Secretary of State that the whole obligation to register could have been much worse, because it could have been a disaster. It's not exactly that. I would like to make that nuance, but that was also the tendency of my earlier speech. It is not for nothing that both the VVD and the PVV and the SGP voted against the motion on the basis of this bill. The SGP remains of the opinion that registration is unnecessary and unnecessary to this extent. For us, therefore, acceptance or rejection of the amendment as a SGP is crucial. If Mr Straus's amendment is accepted, we would like to consider its consequences for our voting behaviour. I cannot comment on this at the moment, because I would like to discuss it in detail in the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-3.u59	That concludes the second term of the Chamber. Does the Secretary of State still want to respond to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-3.u60	Mr. Chairman. I hope, of course, that it will be discussed in the political groups. In response to Mr Bishop's contribution, I would point out that when you talk about education, you sometimes talk about individual schools and sometimes about the system. When we talk about the system and the responsibility of the government to take care of the quality of the famous article in the Constitution that Mr Bishop regularly quotes, it is necessary to be able to keep an eye on the pulse, especially in the transition to appropriate education, a radical change in the system. I also hope that the SGP Group will recognise this after its wise deliberations so that this bill receives broad support in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-3.u61	The vote on the legislative proposal and the amendments will take place next Tuesday. I thank the Secretary of State for his presence and explanation.
