ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u1	The first term of office has already taken place. We'll start with the first-term answer. I would like to welcome the Minister and everyone who is present in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u2	Madam President. I would like to thank the Chamber for having the opportunity to discuss this proposal in the near future. I would like to answer the first-term questions. I am aware that the bill provides for a limited extension of the existing grounds for loss of Dutch citizenship following an irrevocable criminal conviction. As Mr Recourt rightly pointed out, there are about 60 grounds for loss as a result of a criminal conviction. We are adding one to that now. I thought that was a very clear summary of the bill. So there are no new principles and no new borders. The existing loss grounds were introduced as of 1 October 2010. These are crimes which are directed against the security of the State and which contain a serious violent or hostile element. This includes terrorist offences. Those who are guilty of this are seriously harming the essential interests of the Kingdom and thereby forfeiting their right to Dutch citizenship. The bill at the time had broad political and social support and was therefore adopted by a very large majority, both in the Lower House and in the Upper House. The new grounds for loss are those who have been irrevocably convicted of cooperating or participating in a terrorist training camp or because they have otherwise acquired knowledge for the purpose of committing terrorist offences. This addition is reasonable in view of the nature and gravity of the conduct. This was also the conclusion of the Council of State, which gave a blank opinion on the proposal. Several spokesmen were afraid of discrimination against Dutch people with a double nationality compared to Dutch people with a single nationality. It is only in the case of a dual nationality that Dutch citizenship can be withdrawn. I will explain this in greater detail later, but I would like to stress that this distinction is based on international conventions that protect against statelessness. I'll come back to that later. The distinction is therefore inevitable and justified in the opinion of the cabinet. The scope of the legislative proposal has been extended by letter of amendment to those who have not been irrevocably convicted at the time of entry into force. It cannot be the case that those who are currently guilty of these serious offences but have not yet been convicted of them would fall outside the scope of the legislative proposal even after their conviction. It is equally true for them that they seriously harm the essential interests of the Kingdom. I will also deal with the questions concerning this extension of the transitional right and the relationship with the ECHR. The power to withdraw Dutch citizenship is reserved for the Minister, to me. This is always the case. There is a balance between proportionality, which is also required by European case law. The revocation decision shall be subject to the usual administrative remedies. This proposal therefore complies with the rule of law. In the debate, Mr Recourt asked a procedural question about the involvement of the Caribbean countries in this state law and about the follow-up of this state law if the House of Representatives agreed. The national law on Dutch citizenship does not need to be approved by the parliaments, the states of the Caribbean countries. No, the parliaments of the Caribbean countries are sent the proposal of state law and then have the opportunity to ask questions when the report is presented. In dealing with this bill, they did not use it. If the Lower House can agree to the proposal, it will follow the usual route to the Upper House. The legislative proposal we are discussing today does not primarily aim to protect national security. It makes it possible to withdraw the Dutchmanship afterwards, after an irrevocable conviction. In order to protect national security, another bill is in preparation which makes it possible to withdraw the Dutch identity of expatriated jihadgoers preventively, thus without prior conviction. In doing so, we want to prevent them from returning to the Netherlands in order to commit terrorist offences. The latter bill will be submitted to the Chamber before the summer. It will be consulted in March.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u3	The Minister just spoke about the principle of proportionality, which he will take into account when withdrawing a passport. This is limited within European agreements. Will the Minister to indicate proportionality share the balancing framework with the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u4	I'll come back to that trade-off. A number of Members have asked specific questions about this. Can I treat it this way in a certain order? If Mr Schouw and the President agree, I would appreciate that very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u5	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u6	Mr Oskam, Mr Van der Steur and Mr Van der Staaij have asked questions about the government's opinion on statelessness. Can the Treaties be amended or interpreted differently? How do other Member States deal with this? Protection against statelessness and the right to nationality is one of the core values of international law. It's a lower limit I respect. Revocation of nationality with the result that someone becomes stateless would create new problems. The Netherlands is expected to remain obliged to take back those concerned if another country wishes to remove the person concerned from its territory. Removal of a stateless person from Dutch territory is expected to be difficult, as no other State will be obliged to admit the person concerned as a national. I have the specific question, which is also addressed to colleagues in Europe, about how other countries deal with the tension between the ban on statelessness and the need to withdraw their nationality, which has been passed on to the Member States of the European Convention. I have not yet had a reaction to it and I will remind the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe about this. I say this on top of what I said in the reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u7	I hear two things that are hard to reconcile. On the one hand, the Minister says that there is a lower limit that you cannot go through, namely statelessness. The Minister doesn't want to touch that. Statelessness is therefore not an option, but on the other hand he explores that possibility and asks the question how we deal with that tension. Is it now a lower limit that the Minister maintains, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u8	What I have said is the line the cabinet uses, but I also recognize the tension. We, as colleagues, of course, talk a lot about each other in a European context. Everyone's doing the same thing. Everyone, of course, also has their own traditions and constitutional relationships. The Treaty also plays a role in this. I am not talking about the United Kingdom, because that country is not a partner in the treaty, but of course we are also talking to that country, because they are always at the table when we are there. That is why I indicated in the written procedure that we asked the Council of Europe how to deal with this tension and how other countries feel about it. We should not avoid that discussion either. We need to talk about it. I have not yet received an answer to this question, and I have therefore said that I will reappear at the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe in Strasbourg. If necessary, I will ask him personally to do so or ask our ambassador to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u9	I don't understand. If we say 'we are against death penalty', we are not going to investigate how it could possibly be re-implemented. If we say we don't want statelessness, because that's the lower limit, surely you shouldn't investigate that, should you? Then you just say: we stick to the treaty that we have signed, a treaty that excludes policy that leads to statelessness?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u10	I asked the question. I did not say that we want to do the same; we want to consider this and what does everyone think of this? I asked the specific question about dealing. It's a field of tension that plays here, wherever you stand. It is about the question of how to deal with the tension between prohibition and statelessness in other countries and the need to withdraw nationality. I forwarded that question to the partners at the ECHR. So we're getting information about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u11	Unlike Mr Segers, I understand very well. I think the Minister is quite right to say that these treaties are not for nothing. I also said in the first term that we are trying to prevent statelessness in the international context at all times. So that lower limit also understands the VVD fraction. At the same time there is indeed a tension field and that tension field is caused by the actions of people who with those actions indicate that they do not want to be part of that state at all. In addition, the already accepted starting point is that statelessness is automatically accepted by someone who enters the service of an army of a country that is hostile to its own country. That tension is why we asked the Minister if he was prepared to make contacts on this point. That doesn't mean anything about whether you want to say goodbye to that lower limit. I would like to congratulate the Minister on his answer, but not after I have asked my question. I am pleased that the Minister indicates that he will recall, but I also assume that the issue will be addressed in Europe, for example in the JHA Council. Can I see that the Minister will not avoid the dialogue with his colleagues on this issue?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u12	If I wanted to avoid that discussion, it would be quite different for my colleagues. The issue of double nationality in this context is therefore the subject of discussion. Those are discussions that are also taking place here. Those discussions are therefore taking place everywhere. What I want to make clear on this point is that we are not in any way considering questioning the Treaty as such or allowing the Netherlands to take a separate position. However, I would like to know how we deal with this discussion in the Netherlands. That is what the Council of Europe is very good for. There is also another link that I am part of, the leading group within the JHA Council, which deals with such jihadism issues. In this we agree on what measures are needed. We have these kinds of conversations very open up there. Everyone expects me to do that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u13	Mr Van der Steur, a brief supplementary question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u14	I can certainly confirm that last point. The VVD Group expects the Minister to engage in dialogue in all areas that may serve the security of the Netherlands. I thank the Minister for that and do not have a supplementary question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u15	I've seen a more credible play before. I think I was standing here two weeks ago and asked the VVD Group to examine whether statelessness could not be seen as punishment and whether he wanted to see whether a few treaties could be denounced for that purpose. I think that was the issue with which the VVD came. That is how I remembered it, just like the journalists who made a report on it. It's a good thing the Minister says he's not gonna do that. I'd like a confirmation of that. Statelessness can never be seen as punishment. I would also like to confirm that this Minister is not going to take any initiative to amend, terminate or even discuss any treaty which lays down the prohibition of statelessness.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u16	I've just made a very clear statement about what the cabinet thinks. That's the lower limit. I used that term. That's obvious. I also said that we do not intend to question or alter the Treaty as such. We keep a consistent line. So this was nothing new. Mr Schouw would disappoint me if he did not recognize this, because he reads his pieces well. The written documents also state that I am doing what I am saying, but that I have not yet received any notice from the Council of Europe. I'll go to the secretary-general, whom I hold high esteem, and he'll go to the secretary-general.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u17	My group was very shocked by the initiative of the VVD, supported by the CDA and the SGP, to have the Minister make such a request. For this debate, I should like to confine myself to this debate and congratulate this Minister, who says he is not going to do so. He gives the VVD lick piece and does not honor the suggestion of that party. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u18	Those are the words of Mr Schouw, but I have my own words. It is clear what we are doing and what we are taking stock of.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u19	My group also welcomes the fact that the Minister clearly states that there is a lower limit, that he considers statelessness undesirable and that he is not going to mortify the treaty in which the restriction of statelessness is guaranteed. The Minister does say that he is going to ask the Council of Europe how this tension is resolved elsewhere. I can only draw one conclusion from that. If you pull a lower limit on one side, you can only go the other way. We are not going to deprive people with a double passport of their nationality, nor are we going to remove them from the same footing. I can hardly imagine that is the intention. So the question remains as to why the Minister is going to the Council of Europe, if we are already finding that we are keeping it as it is for valid reasons.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u20	I can only repeat what we are doing. I notice that there is a debate on this subject at this time. We are having this discussion ourselves. The need to be able to withdraw nationality is an issue in all countries in the context of tackling terrorism and jihadism. In addition, you run into this discussion. The Council of Europe is the forum in which you discuss these matters with each other. You can also find out how other countries are dealing with this and in what form they are casting it. I've deployed that trajectory, but I don't have an answer yet and I'll recall where the answer is. Of course, I will then inform the Chamber of what is going to happen and what the conclusions of the various countries and partners in the Council of Europe are.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u21	I have a point of order. Mr Schouw is trying to 'frame' me about statelessness, but all I have asked the Minister is whether he wants to ask the Council of Europe how they look at it. It wrings and other parties are asking questions about the principle of equality. That's all I asked. I'd like to mention that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u22	It is a good thing that the Minister is trying to figure it out, because that can always give rise to further discussion, one way or another. My colleague, Mr Van der Staaij, also pointed out in the first place that the Treaty already made an exception in the event of fraud. That's a less far-reaching offense than terrorism. But if fraud is possible, why should terrorism not be possible? I like to get a reflection from the Minister as to why fraud is and is not here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u23	It is possible, and I am happy to be prepared to do so. International law allows statelessness to occur if nationality is granted by fraud and this grant is cancelled. That's the point. The IND withdraws Dutch nationality about twenty times a year because of fraud. Around five times a year the decision leads to statelessness. Such decisions shall as a general rule remain in appeal and appeal. If a person obtained Dutch citizenship through fraud, he should never have had it. That's the essence of it, and that's why it's in the law. Withdrawal also works back to the moment of acquisition. The reason for this is that fraud affects the acquisition as such: you should not have obtained it. That's the point. Someone should never have become Dutcher and he should not take advantage of his deception. In general, someone will also be able to obtain the personal nationality again. That is the answer to the question put by Mr Van der Staaij and repeated by Mr Dijkgraaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u24	This does not mean that the hard lower limit that the Minister is now setting is obviously not hard, because apparently there are circumstances in which it is accepted that statelessness is taking place, given the way in which the process has been conducted. What is the Minister's reflection on the fact that, in the case of fraud, it is possible for the Minister's analysis to be clear and the lower limit is apparently not harsh, but not in the case of such an offence as terrorism? In the case of terrorism, why is it not at least to discuss whether we should do the same?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u25	I can, of course, refer to the treaty and the law, because it is in it, not in one and the other. But it's important and it's partly a legal approach to fraud, so you shouldn't have gotten it. It'll be punished. With regard to terrorist offences, we have a different approach. In this respect, it is not a punitive, but an administrative approach and is not included in the Treaty. In our opinion, this can be explained as such. That is the reason I have indicated. Mrs Van Tongeren asked how an effective legal guarantee would be provided if someone had to carry out their proceedings abroad. It is not at all stated in the application of the bill that the person concerned is abroad. In fact, the most likely situation is that the person concerned is serving time in prison in the Netherlands. Mrs Van Tongeren's question seems to relate to the legislative proposal to amend the Rijkswet on Dutch citizenship. I have just indicated this in the interests of national security. This bill has been consulted. Several opinions have now been received. The creation of a legal guarantee will, of course, have my attention. However, I do not want to anticipate this. I just made a little mistake. I said it was going into consultation in March. It is in consultation and is likely to go to the Council of State in March to be submitted before the summer recess. There was also a request... It hasn't been asked, so I'm not going to answer that question either. I remember that in advance. I remember that very well. Then the question was asked by Mr Schouw, Mr Kuzu, Mrs Van Tongeren and Mrs Gesthuizen...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u26	Mr Kuzu, there is a chance that the question you would like to put will be answered in a moment. Or is it about another point?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u27	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Before the Minister answers that question, I would like to ask another question about the consultation that is taking place. This amendment of the law is now being dealt with. The consultation is ongoing. Is it not wise to send that consultation to the Chamber before we may be able to vote on it next week?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u28	No, you're not going to vote on that. You will not vote on legislative proposals until they have been tabled and dealt with. So this is another bill that's in consultation. That's the normal procedure; I'm just gonna say it again. I've had to get used to it, too, but I can control it now. We have a preliminary draft law. Then we consult everyone and we get these advices. After considering these opinions, it goes to the cabinet. The cabinet, of course, also weighs carefully and then decides whether or not to seek an opinion from the Council of State. We'll get that advice back and weigh it up. We will then submit it to the House of Representatives and then you will be discussed. Mr Schouw, Mrs Van Tongeren, Mrs Gesthuizen and Mr Kuzu spoke of legal inequality as the Dutch can only be withdrawn from the Netherlands with a multiple nationality. Is there no discrimination? What is the basic attitude towards the Constitution and Article 26 of the IVBPR? In today's law, the distinction already exists. There is no change at this point. There is no conflict with the Constitution or with international conventions on equal treatment. Everyone who is in the Netherlands is treated equally. For all Dutch people who violate the essential interests of the Dutch State, there is grounds for the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship. However, in the case of Dutch citizenship with a single nationality, international conventions which see protection against statelessness hinder the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship. The distinction that arises between Dutch people with single and Dutch people with multiple nationality is justified in this respect and is also accepted in international law. The European Convention on Nationality allows Member States to withdraw nationality, but at the same time sets the limit in preventing statelessness.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u29	I can follow the Minister's story, of course, but still. In practice, two young men of 18 are going to do ugly things in a country far away at the same time. One has a dual nationality and the other has a single nationality. They'll be tracked down and brought to justice. Then one person, the one with the dual nationality, still runs the risk of getting a heavier sentence than the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u30	Yes, that is the case when you assess the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship punitively. It's an administrative measure. The minister takes that, not the judge... but they get a punishment. That's right. We have the treaties we have and we apply them. There is no conflict with international law, no conflict with the ECHR or with the Constitution. Everyone in the Netherlands is treated equally in this situation that arises in our law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u31	The Minister is now making a manly attempt to say that this law does not discriminate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u32	Yeah, sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u33	However, I now consider him to be two equal cases. There is only one difference between these two boys, namely that one has a single nationality and the other has a double nationality. The Minister is concerned with the withdrawal of that passport and of that nationality. Is the Minister saying that because there are two equal cases, he will not proceed to that measure? Is he saying he won't do that because otherwise you'll create inequality in this case?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u34	No, I won't. I will come to the point that Mr Schouw has just asked. It's always proportional. You're making such a big deal about this. That is why the European Court has also said how to do it. I am also very much in favour of this. It is true that nationality can be withdrawn in one situation and not in the other. That is clear, and that is what we have agreed. Otherwise, another violation of the treaty we have just mentioned would be raised in relation to statelessness. Mr Schouw knows that this is a lower limit.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u35	That is where I think the essence of this point lies. The Minister says that there is no legal inequality, but that is what we are talking about in the example we are talking about. In one case, the Minister makes an assessment because we are bound by international law and he cannot make people stand alone. In the other, similar case, the Dutchmanship can be withdrawn. That's what he just reported. How should we reconcile this with the principle of equality of law?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u36	It applies international law. That's one way of looking at it. This is also assessed at national level in the legislation that we are simply adopting here. Indeed, this is the consequence. Moreover, I do not always believe that all cases are the same. That's the way it is. I want to make a clear distinction between what the criminal court is doing and the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship. These are two different legal acts. These are the consequences that we not only apply now, but also used to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u37	I understand very well where the difference is. It is also true that the criminal court must have given a ruling before the Minister can take that administrative measure. However, the argument that this possibility already exists in national legislation can never be a legitimate reason to continue on that unequal footing. I think the example Mr Schouw outlined was very striking. Surely we are dealing with two equal cases that are dealt with in two different ways? So I still don't understand. I would therefore like to hear a clear explanation from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u38	There are a number of things I can say about it that I have actually already said. Firstly, there are actually no equal cases. You can't say that in this term either. I do understand the example, but at least we cannot outline this here. The law does make a distinction. That's right. However, this distinction is also justified. That is why we apply this in our treaties and in our legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u39	I'm curious about the order. First of all, indeed, the criminal court is in the hands of someone who committed the terrorist crime? Is nationality to be taken over by the Minister of Foreign Affairs? Indeed, it may differ between two people who have committed the same criminal offence. When will proportionality be assessed? If the criminal has the two offenders in front of him or later by the minister? The criminal court could say: I am giving less punishment to the perpetrator with two nationalities, because it is to be expected that the minister will later take up his nationality. The Minister could say: I am looking at the criminal case.... there were two similar cases... and consider it relevant that for the offender who only has a Dutch nationality, it remains with the conviction. For the other perpetrator, it goes on, even though it is not a punitive measure, and I take that into account. It is then again the administrative judge who tests that. Where's the key moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u40	The key moments are different. Firstly, the criminal court will not take into account what can happen afterwards. He will assess criminal law and not take this law into account. Then there are convictions. It is then up to the Minister to weigh up the administrative measure and make a choice. That's the order.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u41	Now, by chance, this week's the alcohol lock is in the news. According to my information, the criminal court was already watching what would eventually happen as an administrative measure. How can the Minister be so sure that the criminal court will not look at the front country and take that into account?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u42	That is because the criminal court as such assesses the relevant articles. Mr Recourt will agree with me that this is a very separate procedure: prosecutor's office, prosecution, judgment. The second point is that then I myself, the Minister, in this case, when I come to it, will consider it. That is a balance that I will make in proportion, given the facts that have arisen and the personal situation of the person concerned. That is, of course, the case. For legislation and as such, I am not going to step into what the judge is going to do. Nor is there any case-law that would give rise to the presumption that the criminal court would take account of measures subsequently taken with regard to the application of these articles. That is the essence as we look at it. Those are the experiences so far. I'm coming to the Transitional Law. This is a point on which a number of Members of Parliament have spoken: Mr Recourt, Mr Segers, Mrs Gesthuizen and Mr Schouw. Is the transitional right contrary to Article 16 of the Constitution and Article 7 of the ECHR? We are talking here about the principle that conduct should not be punishable retroactively, the nulla poena principle. The bill has no retroactive effect. It is a transitional right which removes an undesirable consequence of its immediate effect. That's the point. Moreover, it is not criminal law, but administrative law. This bill does not provide for criminalisation, but the possibility of imposing the administrative measure after the irrevocable conviction of a crime that has been punishable since 2010. It is a measure of order which has no punitive character. There's no need to add grief. The measure is imposed by the Board. Legal protection is regulated through the administrative courts. There is therefore no punitive measure within the meaning of Article 7 of the ECHR. Moreover, it is often the case that criminal convictions have administrative consequences. The withdrawal of a foreigner's residence permit may be considered after a sentence of imprisonment. This is also a measure which can be taken following a criminal conviction, but which is not a punitive measure. To get back to the bill: it is certainly not unthinkable that it is a criminal act that continues or has continued after the law enters into force. In this sense too, there will not soon be anything similar to retroactive effect. Moreover, there is always an individual balance of interests when withdrawing. Of course, Article 7 of the ECHR is also taken into account where appropriate. If the withdrawal of nationality is not proportionate in an individual case, I will not go along with it. In addition, the person concerned can always go to court.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u43	I had already hinted at this in my first term. I thought the Minister would say that we do not have to adhere to that principle which does apply in criminal law, namely that you must know in advance, before you commit an act, what is the penalty. We cannot change the law afterwards and say: you have committed a criminal act. That's what the Minister says here. Does he dare to say here literally that withdrawing a person's nationality is not a punishment?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u44	It's an administrative measure. This is not a question of criminal law, it is an administrative measure taken by the Minister and which can be addressed to the administrative judge. It is therefore not a punitive measure but an administrative measure. That's what I think, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u45	Quite literally, that's true. Only, I find it an amazing conclusion for a minister of security and justice to assume that taking a person's nationality would not be punishment, whatever we call it, and whether we organise it criminally or administratively. In the view of my group, it is a punishment measure and you cannot make a law in this way. I have already announced that I am considering an amendment on this point. I'm going to work on that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u46	I can also say it again in this context. I do not want to talk about it in such terms or see an administrative measure as a punishment. It's an administrative measure. It's not criminal law. Of course, the legislation must be extremely precise in this respect. Are there other examples of such transitional rights? That was a question from Mr Oskam and Mr Segers. The main rule in the legislative doctrine is that a new law has immediate effect. Without transitional rights, the main rule in this case would lead to the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship also on the basis of an irrevocable conviction in the past. This would be contrary to the principle of legal certainty. Therefore, transitional rights are provided for, which removes this undesirable effect. The form of the transitional right depends on the specific case. There are no general guidelines for this. I am currently not aware of any examples of the same provision in other laws. Mr Schouw asked another question...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u47	Mr Schouw would like to ask a question on the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u48	...about the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u49	Yes, but now he also wants to ask a question about the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u50	Yeah, but that's got to do with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u51	Yeah, back in two blocks. The minister's in a huge hurry, but I'm not. I asked what the balance-of-payments framework is for proportionality. The minister said he'd come back to that, but I haven't heard more about it. The minister said that he will not withdraw Dutch citizenship if it is not proportional. Can he outline, on the basis of a number of examples, on the basis of some case-law, when this is the case? I do not think it is good for legal treatment if we do not properly explore the contours and do not test each other's kidneys on the basis of the balance-of-payments framework for this proportionality.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u52	A number of Members have asked questions about this. I wanted to deal with this in a separate block, which I was almost ready for, but I would like to take this point with me now. I came back to that in detail a little while ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u53	The question has been asked, so Mr Schouw would like an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u54	Mr Schouw has asked for this before. Some spokesmen have asked about the balance of interests made when the Dutch were withdrawn and whether I can guarantee that the humanitarian conditions at the heart of the matter are the only blockade. Under the Rijkswet op het Nederlanderschap, the Netherlandserschap may be revoked if a person has been convicted under Article 134a of the Code of Criminal Law. If an irrevocable conviction has taken place, the issue of withdrawal will in principle be raised. That's the point. However, that is not automatic. The individual circumstances of the person concerned will always be considered. I've said that before. It is not possible, and I would not want to do so, to give an exhaustive list of situations in which there will be no withdrawal of Dutch citizenship. For example, a disease, a particular situation in a disease or a certain stage of a disease could be a circumstance that weighs. The normal line is that in principle withdrawal is at issue, but this is not automatic. We are not going to list all kinds of criteria on the basis of which we say: in this case it is and in that case it is not. A balance is always made on the basis of the circumstances of the person himself. I have just given one example.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u55	With this reasoning, the Minister may still survive the House of Representatives, but I do not think the House of Lords will accept this. The Minister will have to give more weight to the concept of proportionality. He must try to limit his own policy freedom, his own policy space. That's what the co-legislator wants to know. The co-legislator knows one thing, namely that in case of illness certain conditions are considered. There's nothing more to tell about that? Would it not be wise for the Minister to try to give a little more outline of his own freedom of policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u56	I have replied to Mr Schouw that I do not think it would be wise to restrict the functioning and work of the Minister whoever that is or may be, especially when it comes to a new article, for which we still have to build case law. I believe that we can have the confidence that ministers will take wise and wise decisions on this point, on the basis that in principle withdrawal will be on the table, but that this is not automatic.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u57	I have another question about the previous point. Is it a criminal measure, a punitive measure? The Minister replied very technically: no, because I am doing it and I am not a criminal justice officer; I am a director, so it is an administrative measure. However, the ECHR does not look at all technically. That actually looks: it doesn't matter where you put it down, we look at whether the purpose is punishment, suffering or retribution. In the first term, I asked the Minister if he knows what the ECHR is actually looking at. It is not new that Dutch citizenship or nationality can be taken away. Has the ECHR already spoken on this issue? Is it a punitive measure or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u58	It will look at the nature and purpose of the measure. That's obvious. The nature is the qualification, also according to national law. That is, of course, important in this respect. It will also look at the procedure under which the measure is implemented and imposed and at the gravity of the measure here. Those are the considerations.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u59	But the Minister is not aware of any specific cases in which the European Court of Justice has delivered a concrete ruling on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u60	There are no reasons to believe that the same line will not apply to matters I have just indicated. Let me put it this way. It is settled case-law that an undesirable statement is not regarded as criminal charge of penalty within the meaning of Articles 6 and 7 of the ECHR.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u61	I also have a question on this point. I apologize for bringing this up again. I think there is a case law. I also believe that Mr Recourt's questions were clearly in that direction. There is case law, however, at our own Council of State and also at the ECHR. Our own Council of State referred in October 2013 to a ruling of the European Court of Human Rights of December 2005, which states: an administrative measure may indeed be punitive. This text states that Article 6 of the ECHR shall apply. So that's already settled. How logical does the Minister think it is that Article 7 of the ECHR, which refers to the principle of legality, will apply?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u62	I can say this about that. Again, the bill does not involve criminalisation. The first sentence of Article 7 (1) ECHR is therefore not applicable. This is the second sentence of Article 7, paragraph 1, of the ECHR, which states that no more severe penalty, a heavier penalty, may be imposed than that applied at the time of the offence. In Welch versus the United Kingdom, the European Court set out the criteria for determining whether this sentence applies. These are the following criteria, which I have just summarised and which must be considered in conjunction: whether the measure follows the criminal conviction, the nature and purpose of the measure, the qualification according to national law, the procedure under which the measure is implemented and imposed and the gravity of the measure. Withdrawal of Dutch citizenship follows a criminal conviction. Moreover, it is a relatively heavy measure. This could be an indication of a penalty within the meaning of Article 7 ECHR. On the other hand, however, the measure does not automatically follow a criminal conviction and is therefore not punitive in nature. Perhaps the last is more convincing for Mrs. Gesthuizen than the first. Under national law, this is a measure prepared and imposed by the administration, which is preceded by an individual balance of interests. What is ultimately achieved with the measure is that the person concerned is given the status of a foreigner. And as a stranger he can be declared undesirable and then he has to leave the Netherlands. The junk declaration of a foreigner is a measure comparable by nature, purpose and gravity to the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship. That's what I just said. An junk declaration also takes place after an irrevocable conviction by the criminal court. It is settled case-law that the junk declaration is not regarded as "criminal charge' or "penalty' within the meaning of Articles 6 and 7 of the ECHR. There is no reason to believe that the same line would not apply to the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u63	In good Dutch: I wouldn't dare take poison on it. Especially not because of what I heard in the course of the legal proceedings the right wing of the Chamber. I still got a taste in the mouth like it was gonna be a punishment after all. The Minister can say a lot about this and use certain terms or words for it, but the fact is that it has already been established in case law that measures of an administrative nature may also be punitive, can be de facto a penal measure. Perhaps it would be wise to look into this further, especially since the Minister himself has already indicated: what we intend to do is a rather heavy instrument. That means that there will also be reasons to say: this is a punishment. And, in addition, the minister says: after a criminal conviction, you do not automatically lose your Dutch citizenship. However, the Minister has said here that he is going to look for its limits.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u64	I don't need a closer investigation. It's obvious to me. The draft law is, after consultation, also well prepared. It has received a blank opinion from the Council of State. That's a big deal. We don't get that every day.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u65	I think we're as clear there as we are. I can say once again that in principle withdrawal will be the subject of an irrevocable condemnation, but it is not automatic. Individual circumstances will be considered. To date, the court has not regarded the removal of nationality as a punitive measure. So I can say again that that investigation is not necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u66	The Minister brings in an authority: the Council of State. He said to my dear colleague Mr Gesthuizen: this is a good proposal, because the Council of State has produced a blank report. I have two questions about that. Does a blank report by the Council of State mean by definition that it agrees to it? I know of other cases in which he is very opposed and is therefore presenting a blank report. My second question is even more relevant. The law has been changed. The Minister has come up with a letter of amendment. In any case, it has not been submitted to the Council of State. So would the Minister be free to stop using that argument?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u67	I gave you the facts. Indeed, we have not consulted the Council of State on transitional rights. We didn't think that was necessary, given the measure there was. We do so, of course, for serious situations, and we thought this was a very good and well-balanced measure that we did not need to consult the Council of State again. That is the opinion of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u68	Does the Minister therefore agree with me that the Council of State has not been consulted on the most important amendment to this bill, which this minister himself has come up with, and that therefore it does not make any sense if this Minister says: it is a good proposal, because the Council of State has produced a blank report on it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u69	In itself, it is best for Mr Schouw to hear that last judicium from my mouth. That is what has been done with regard to this bill. It is a positive judicum: no comments, continue like this. That's it. As a minister, it would be nice if you could say that for once, especially to Mr Schouw. We can differ on the question of transitional rights. I respect that very much. Mr Schouw has specifically asked for this in the first term. We didn't think it was necessary to do that. Mr Oskam has asked whether I share the opinion and hope that the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship will have a preventive effect. That's how I understood his question. It cannot be ruled out that it has any preventive effect. However, preventive action is not the aim of the measure. Another bill is in preparation for that. I've been over that, too. That has been in consultation and goes to the Council of State. Mr Schouw, Mrs Van Tongeren and Mrs Gesthuizen have asked whether this law is not primarily a symbol and is not effective. With the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship, it is apparent that the person concerned thus opposes the essential interests of the Dutch State and that the Dutch Federation can no longer exist. I disagree that this law will not have any effect. Article 134a of the Code of Criminal Law shall apply. The case law on this issue has not yet been crystallised, but it is being prosecuted and condemned. As has already been said, there are currently 15 cases pending. Recently, the Court of Justice of the Hague has issued another judgment under Article 134a of the Code of Criminal Law. These will not be large numbers, but I do expect this withdrawal ground to be applied. Mr Segers asked what the nationality of the country of origin is. Suppose someone is left with the Egyptian nationality and there awaits the death penalty on return. How do we deal with that? As I said, all the circumstances of the case stand in the way of the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship. Following the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship, a new balance is made with regard to the right of residence. In principle, no right of residence is granted because of the importance of public policy. Under circumstances, Article 3 of the ECHR may stand in the way of expulsion. That's when someone gets the death penalty in the country to which they're being deported. That may be the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u70	I had the impression that Mr Schouw wanted to comment on the previous point. I saw Mr Segers on the move, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u71	I have another point for Mr Segers, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u72	The minister says he doesn't think it's big numbers. I would like a more precise assessment from the Minister. The bill has yet to gain the power of law. What's he thinking? Is it a handful or a few dozen?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u73	Mr Schouw knows me and knows that I use targets on other subjects, but I do not have them here. I am not going to say that this law should be introduced and applied in so many cases. We're not gonna do that. We have always said that it will not be about many people, but there are fifteen things that are going on. The Court has given a ruling. Those are the situations in which you need to see this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u74	I'm gonna need a little more explanation anyway. My group feels a little more at home with Mr Recourt, who says that you should use it as a last resort and that you should do so very restrictively. Fine. Other colleagues in the Chamber say: open the locks, because the more the merrier. It's not their words, it's mine. It is good to know, also in view of the Minister's freedom of policy, which part of the Chamber he feels the most senang.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u75	As Minister of Security and Justice, I am simply going to implement this law in an orderly manner along the lines I have outlined. Then I always come to the point that there must have been an irrevocable conviction first. Then, in principle, the issue of withdrawal will be raised. However, it is not automatic and there will always be room for individual circumstances.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u76	This is the point that follows, the possible expulsion to countries where human rights are respected in a different way or perhaps not in the way they are used in the Netherlands. It is obvious that we do not deport when it comes to the death penalty, as the Minister says. For the rest, all circumstances will be taken into account. I'd still like a more precise description. If countries torture, could that be a reason not to deport? What are the moral limits that the Minister uses?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u77	I have mentioned an example. I appeal to Article 3 of the ECHR. In circumstances, expulsion can be prevented if a person is sentenced to death in the country to which he is expelled. That is the case. That is an example of the balance that is being made. So you're gonna take a look around at what we're doing. That's the point. I am not going to set out all kinds of criteria here, and I am not going to name casusism, so as not to limit the Minister's considerations. There must be normal case law. The case law of the ECHR is also very important in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u78	Finally, Mr Segers?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u79	Yeah, I'm sure I'd like to ask. Thank you, Mr President. The Minister now comes up with the most extreme case, with the most dramatic situation, of a possible death penalty, but there are many other situations that affect human rights. I would now like to hear a start on an answer, for example that the Minister says that violations of human rights, for example possible torture or imprisonment without trial, weigh heavily on him, so that the principles of the rule of law are heavily taken into account and led by them. We do not need to go into the case in detail, but we need to take account of the Minister's considerations.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u80	Normally, they're leading the trade-offs, especially mine. They're really important. We should also consider the following. Article 8 ECHR may, under circumstances, stand in the way of expulsion. However, this will not be the case soon, because the interests of the State in condemning terrorism weigh heavily. We are talking here about serious crimes that have been punished, so a sentence has been pronounced, which then leads to the application of this rule.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u81	I met this minister at the time in Rotterdam. What graced him as mayor at the time was that he was the man of the targets. In the note following the report, the Minister does not answer the question of the effectiveness of the legislative amendment. Today he does so when answering the questions. Can the Minister say a little more about this in his reply? Indeed, we are talking about 15 cases pending in 2014, but the Minister does not know how many of these people have dual nationality and how many people cannot be deprived of Dutch citizenship by international treaties. How can the Minister still claim that this bill is effective?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u82	I can repeat what I have just said to Mr Schouw. I would like to contradict the fact that this law is mainly a symbol and not very effective, so it will not have any effect. I would also like to say that we do not have any targets here; I would consider such a line inappropriate. On other subjects in my package I am happy to do so. I have already said that I do not think this is going to be a very large number, but that is why a law can still be effective. About 15 cases have now been brought. The Court of Justice in The Hague has recently issued a judgment under Article 134a of the Code of Criminal Law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u83	I think the essence of the law is that it should be effective. We are talking about a handful of cases and it is not even clear how many of these cases can be taken away from the Dutch. The Minister may continue to refer to a case that has recently been played, but I think it is logical that consideration should also be given to the impact of this law, including on society. Now to my specific question: what problem in society does the Minister intend to solve by means of this bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u84	Let's be clear about that. These are situations in which the interests of the State are at stake in a conviction for terrorism. In essence, it is said that a person who has committed such a crime and has been convicted of such a crime is eligible for withdrawal from the Netherlands. That's the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u85	I suggest that the Minister continue his speech now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u86	Mr President, in that case I would like to make a point of order. Mr Segers has just had the opportunity to put a third question. I'd appreciate it if I could do that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u87	You've interrupted three times so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u88	This is my second time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u89	It's been tracked here. I am not going to argue with you about an interruption more or less, but we do want to have some progress in the debate. Go ahead, but it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u90	I'll come back to the point. I think the circle's round. If essential interests of the Netherlands are harmed, how can we do it in one case and not in the other? I think that's the end of the circle. The reasoning is complete, but we still can't figure it out. We are not approaching each other, is my observation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u91	Settlements are generally for the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u92	It could be, because there is a balance of interests. That's proportionality. I have already said many things about this, in a very consistent line. Mr Segers asks what is the position of minors when they start training as minors and become adults during training. Determinant for the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship is whether there is an irrevocable conviction for Article 134a of the Code of Criminal Law. Minority or adulthood is not relevant for this. Minority may, as a circumstance, take into account the proportionality weighting in the context of the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship. Mrs Van Tongeren asks whether the requirement of proportionality and subsidiarity has been met in purely aiding terrorist offences. An irrevocable conviction for Article 134a of the Criminal Code is a serious offence for a terrorist purpose. In principle, the essential interests of the Dutch State are at stake. Both the nature of the offence and the level of punishment correspond to the other offences listed in Article 14, second paragraph. Mr Segers and Mrs Gesthuizen ask how I define the concept of 'essential interests'. Does this include the essential interests of NATO? The concept of "essential interests" is the international legal basis for the inclusion of loss grounds in the Rijkswet op het Nederlanderschap. The various grounds for loss set out in Article 14, second paragraph, are a more detailed definition of this concept. In the event of an irrevocable conviction for one of these grounds, there is a violation of these essential interests of the Dutch State and the Dutch Federation can be withdrawn. It is conceivable that the essential interests of NATO correspond to the essential interests of the Dutch State. However, this is not important in this respect. The decisive factor is whether a person has been irrevocably convicted of any of the grounds set out in Article 14, second paragraph. Mr Schouw asked how often the existing grounds for loss of Article 14 (2) were applied. The existing loss grounds of Article 14, second paragraph, have not been applied since its introduction in 2010. Mrs Van Tongeren asks how the Minister will deal with the great social and political pressure in withdrawing Dutch citizenship. Is careful consideration possible? Under the current law, it is also up to the Minister to decide on the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship. The Minister will also make a careful decision under social and political pressure. A revocation decision shall be subject to judicial review. It will assess the decision with care and balance. Then I come to Mr Van der Staaij's point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u93	In this context, I asked if the Minister could give a case in which there was a conviction, but in which the Minister decided not to withdraw Dutch citizenship. How is the criterion of "essential interests" used? How does this criterion make a difference in whether or not to withdraw Dutch citizenship?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u94	I do not think that is the issue as such, because the concept of 'essential interests' is the international legal basis for including the loss grounds in the Dutch National Act. That's the point. The various grounds for loss set out in Article 14, second paragraph, are a more detailed definition of this concept. I therefore stick to the legal text. We're gonna do it later. If there is an irrevocable criminal conviction, it will be dealt with as such. I have just mentioned NATO. I would never have come up with it myself, because it has just been mentioned. It's not really relevant either, but it could happen to weigh in. The decisive factor is, however, whether a person has been irrevocably convicted of the grounds set out in Article 14, second paragraph.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u95	If it has reached an irrevocable conviction of a person of dual nationality, does this always lead to the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u96	No, we'll get back to criminal law and administrative law. I told him it wasn't automatism. That is why we are discussing this issue with each other, and that is something that may be expected, but it is not automatic. It's being weighed proportionally. The person's position plays a role in this. I come to Mr Van der Staaij's questions. He is not present now, but Mr Dijkgraaf will listen to me; I am sure of that. I will make every effort to get a good answer. Mr Van der Staaij has asked whether this is the implementation of Mr Dijkhoff's motion. In the original proposal, a loss was automatically settled in the event of an irrevocable conviction for participation in a terrorist organisation. However, European law requires proportionality to be weighed down in the event of a loss of Union citizenship. You can't do that if you lose it automatically. As a result, there is no legal room for this adjustment. Pursuing this measure would reduce the effectiveness of the possibilities for the withdrawal of the Dutch citizenship of persons participating in a terrorist organisation. That is why the Rottman case has led me not to pursue this measure. Mr De Graaff also spoke about this. Is the legal vulnerability of jihadists more important than the safety of ordinary Dutch people? No. I strongly disagree with that statement. I am concerned precisely with preventing the vulnerability of the grounds for loss in the Rijkswet on this point. The treaty dealt with the following. An irrevocable conviction for Article 140a is already a ground for the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship. Loss of the Dutch citizenship automatically following an irrevocable conviction for Article 140a is, having regard to the Rottman judgment, legally vulnerable. This means that it cannot continue because a proportionality weighting is necessary. This is not possible in the event of a loss of rights. This would make the law on this issue legally vulnerable, while the current law would allow legally acceptable repeal in the event of irrevocable conviction.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u97	The Rottman arrest was a very different matter. That was fraud and not this case. There is at least a lack of clarity as to whether this is the case. How does this weigh the Minister for the service of a foreign military service? For this reason, the European Treaty states that it can do so. There are also cases that are enforceable before the courts. Then why should it not be possible in the case of terrorism?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u98	That has to do with the point I just mentioned. Pursuing the measure would reduce the effectiveness of the possibilities for the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship from persons participating in a terrorist organisation. That is actually the issue in the Rottmann case. European law requires that, in the event of a loss of Union citizenship, there should be a weighting of proportionality. When we found out, we made these changes to the bill. It is, however, effective to do this when it comes to proportionality, because it is not hampered by the case law of the European Court of Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u99	In the Rottmann judgment, there was also a question of statelessness. That's a complicating factor. So the question is whether that is one-on-one applicable to this situation. My point is this. The European Treaty allows it to join a foreign military service. The balance of interests does not have to take place. It can then be done automatically. So what is the legally essential difference between joining a foreign military service and taking place of a terrorist act? I can feel the legal reasoning in itself, but this is an assessment in the vein of 'we think that this is the way to do it legally best'. That is something other than saying that it cannot, by definition, and that we should not.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u100	Once again, European law obliges the loss of Union citizenship to be considered proportionate. So that's what's going on here. In my opinion, you should go through that line, because you could effectively withdraw the Dutchmanship in the situations that would lend themselves to it under the law. That is our belief. If you left it that way if it was tout court in the Dijkgraaf motion, you would run the risk of the European Court destroying it. I just don't want to. We cannot be blind to the case law that exists. We have shown this once again. As Minister for Security and Justice, I am pleased to be able to say the same to Mr Dijkgraaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u101	The legal wordings are all nice, fun and nice, but it remains true that the legal vulnerability on any side is above the physical vulnerability of the Dutch. Whatever explanation the minister gives, the legal vulnerability still goes for him for the physical vulnerability of everyone here in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u102	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. I... I... I... I... I... I... I... I... I... I... I... I... I... I... I... I... It's precisely the prevention of vulnerability that matters to me. I also want to prevent the loss grounds in the state law from being vulnerable on this point. The room knows them all. The terrorist crimes are the criteria. On that basis, we must be punished. Then there is the possibility of taking advantage of it to withdraw Dutch citizenship. If we do not do so, then we will run into the case law of the European Court, as I said to Mr Dijkgraaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u103	That is exactly what I said in my first term. The Minister is going to be crooked before the European Treaties, which have to do with the legal vulnerability of the Netherlands in order to continue to put the physical vulnerability of the Dutchman at risk. I also said in my first term that it concerns a few people and that we are not going to help the Netherlands in terms of security with this bill. Of course, we will vote in favour, because something is being done. I called it a Band-Aid on an artery bleed, but I think that patch is cut in half again by the Minister's wording. I find it very disappointing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u104	I must contradict that one more time. It is one of the laws in the pipeline as part of the approach to jihadism. We have long had other legislation in place in the field of counter-terrorism. Mr Oskam asked if I could give examples of what is covered by Rule 134a. The criminalisation of course focuses on participating in terrorist training camps, but the scope of the criminalisation is clearly wider. The provision of means for or opportunity to commit terrorist offences is also covered by criminalisation, as is the acquisition of knowledge and skills for that purpose. This makes the criminalisation within the scope of the Criminal Code very relevant in all kinds of acts carried out in the context of the preparation of participating in terrorist activities in Syria or Iraq. I would like to mention, for example, the search for information on explosives on the Internet, but also other actions that actively prepare themselves for the battle. This is always a combination of the extremist views of the person, as shown by the expression and actions of the person concerned. Mrs Gesthuizen asks whether I expect judges to take account of the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship under Article 134a of criminal law. I believe that has already been discussed. I do not expect criminals to take this into account when assessing prosecutions under Article 134a Criminal Law. This would also be difficult because the withdrawal after an irrevocable conviction is dependent on a balance of interests and on whether the person concerned has a different nationality. Mr Recourt has also spoken about this. Mrs. Van Tongeren asks how many convictions I expect. That question has also been asked by Mr Schouw. I've already answered that. Mr Schouw asked for a legal comparison with other countries. How often, when and why have we discussed this with our colleagues? I speak regularly with colleagues about the fight against terrorism. The withdrawal of nationality in terrorist acts such as those of jihadists participating in the fight on the side of ISIS is a matter for virtually all European countries where that phenomenon is taking place. In the United Kingdom, for example, the law has recently been strengthened and the existing grounds for withdrawal are also applied to terrorists. In Belgium, it has been announced that the possibilities for withdrawal of nationality will be extended. In France, the existing legal grounds for withdrawal have recently been successfully applied to a person convicted of participating in a terrorist organisation. The target group in the different countries is very similar and the grounds for loss of nationality in different countries are very different. I am not aware of any other countries taking exactly the same measure as the Netherlands. The Netherlands is a beautiful country, of course with its own traditions and constitutional conditions, but the essence is that we talk about this with each other and of course we exchange best practices with each country, including draft laws, but that the situation is never exactly the same. That is what I wanted to say to Mr Schouw.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u105	Mr Schouw van D66 wanted to say something back.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u106	Why did I ask that question? That had a relationship with a legal vulnerability. For what is it now, on the basis of the ECHR, that it is not all in conformity? That's a risk we're gonna take. That is why I ask whether this has now been tried in a similar way in another country. Do I understand the Minister correctly that he says: no, it has not yet been tried in another European country? Then we know that, because then that risk will remain - we should not be afraid of risks - we should not be afraid of risks - we should not be afraid of risks.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u107	In any case, I would like to say to Mr Schouw that this draft law did not, of course, take one night's ice and that, of course, we took an ECHR test. We believe that we have been through it too. Otherwise we would not have come up with this either. I have mentioned a number of points and a number of articles which Members are all well aware of here. So that's right. There is only a different form of responsibility in Belgium than in the Netherlands and in France altogether, while the position is also different in the United Kingdom. However, the situation has also recently been tightened up.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u108	I note, with which I come back to a previous point, that when it comes, for example, to the transitional right and the amendment made by the Minister to his own law, which, in my group's view, only increases this vulnerability in relation to the ECHR, the Minister has not dared to take the test at the Council of State. It would have given more certainty. The Minister didn't take that test. Of course, that makes me a little suspicious, as the Minister will understand. He can remove that suspicion by thinking of something, a test, for example, by the Council of State, or by another learned company, of the change made by the Minister to his own law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u109	We've already talked about that. We don't think that's necessary. I will no longer mention the opinion of the Council of State, which is clear, but we found this measure logical in the transitional law and therefore not heavy enough to obtain a separate opinion from the Council of State. I come to Mr Van Klaveren, who asked why the Netherlands does not accept the criterion used by the United Kingdom: Withdrawal is possible if it is in the public interest. That is the criterion of the United Kingdom. The British criterion is wider than the area provided by the European Convention on Nationality. The United Kingdom is not a party to this treaty, the Netherlands is. This Convention only allows nationality to be withdrawn by acts which seriously harm the essential interests of the State. Moreover, the UK's wording that withdrawal is possible if it is in the public interest is not sufficiently precise to serve as a guideline for the exercise of this far-reaching competence and carries the risk of arbitrariness. Mr Oskam has asked a number of questions. It has been reported that nine returners have been apprehended. Of those, four are in detention. What happened to the other five? I do not comment on specific cases. In general, the following applies. Acknowledged returners are held for questioning upon return. The D.A.'s office will prosecute if it's appropriate. The police and the AIVD make an assessment of the threat with each known returner. They keep a close eye on known returners. Returners are discussed in a multidisciplinary case consultation. All returners have been treated according to this line. Persons may not be held in remand indefinitely. That was also a judge's ruling. Mr Oskam asked how I deal with the problem of radicalising people under the influence of returners in prisons. This is the subject of constant attention in the Dutch prison system. In prisons with a terrorist unit, people suspected or convicted of a terrorist offence are kept separate from the rest of the detainees. Staff are trained through training to identify and counter radicalisation and respond to abnormal behaviour. For all prisons there is a contact point where they can bring in signals of radicalisation. Those signals are then pointed out. If necessary, an inmate will be transferred to a terrorist unit. Mr Oskam, Mrs Van Tongeren and Mr Segers asked about the deradicalisation programme of De Waag and the Public Prosecutor's Office. Do the municipalities have sufficient tools for deradicalisation? What is the Minister going to do to set up deradicalisation programmes better and faster? I have already informed the Chamber that the deradicalisation programme referred to is still under development and is not yet operational in this case. Deradicalisation is already under way, both in a voluntary and in an involuntary context. In general terms, it can be said that a deradicalisation programme will only be effective if it is a tailor-made programme. In addition to the above, I can inform the Chamber that various national and local parties are committed to further developing and broadening existing initiatives in the field of deradicalisation. Mr Van Klaveren asked when I was going to ban the financing of mosques. Freedom of religion, freedom of expression and freedom of association are essential to our democracy. A ban on the financial support of a religious institution is not in line with this. Funding foundations, associations or religious institutions through international money flows is not necessarily problematic, but may be problematic. The difficult control of the origin of such funds has long been the subject of concern in the Chamber. That is why, as a result of the Segers motion, I have already promised to come up with a feasibility study. I refer to the answers I gave earlier to the written questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u110	Mr Segers has an interruption on the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u111	The Minister moves very quickly from one block to another, although this is also a very interesting block. The previous point, however, was about deradicalisation. The intention has already been included in the action programme. So it's in the fall. We're still waiting for that. Municipalities are also waiting for this. In the meantime, there is already a lot of experience abroad. What do we know about that? Are we making use of what has already been proven? I think it is very important to implement this part of the action programme very quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u112	Can I agree with Mr Segers on this? At the end of this month we will be presenting the progress report on the jihad action programme. Mr Asscher and I will take this point with us. We will then more or less indicate exactly what the situation is. We have promised in the debate that we will act in this way on progress reports.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u113	Is Mr Segers satisfied with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u114	Thank you for this commitment. In fact, I think it would be fine to discuss it...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u115	Even with "more or less exactly"? That's good enough?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u116	That's all it can be, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u117	Does the Minister recognise its importance in relation to this bill? This is the ultimate conclusion to the approach, but healing is of course much better than ultimately withdrawing nationality and punishing very severely. Does the Minister underline the importance of these programmes?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u118	Totally. It is not without reason that, in the recent letter on the fight against terrorism, we have set aside a substantial additional amount for prevention measures and de-radicalisation programmes. Of course working on the front is essential. The approach must always be in balance; the front and the back must be carried out in coherence and in balance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u119	Mr Van Klaveren has a question about whether or not to finance mosques.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u120	My group believes that the foreign funding of mosques should be stopped, especially if we look at the influence that countries such as Qatar and Saudi Arabia have on mosques in the Netherlands. The Minister did not go into that, but I also asked my question in the context of developments in Austria. There is a law on Islam that makes it possible for this funding to be stopped to a large extent. My question is, how does the Minister look at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u121	We do not intend to do that, let me make that clear. There is an investigation into the financing of mosques, which I hope will soon be completed, in order to implement the Segers motion. We will send the results to the Chamber, accompanied by a response to the inquiry. However, I am not yet aware of the results of the investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u122	Is this study also looking at the situation that exists in Austria today? That's what we asked for.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u123	There will certainly be an international look, but I do not think that they will be taken into account. However, I do not know, because I do not know the investigation yet. I assume that current events are always taken into account, but we do not believe that we should bring laws such as those in Austria to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u124	The minister says he doesn't know the investigation. He then indicated that he believed that laws such as those in Austria should "not be brought to the Chamber" whatever that meant. My question is very simple: can the Minister at least ensure that what is being investigated in relation to the foreign financing of mosques is also placed in the context we now know in Austria? In Austria, it will be possible to stop most of the foreign financing of mosques. We would love it if this were done in the Netherlands as well. My question was whether the cabinet could respond to the situation in Austria.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u125	I'm just waiting for the investigation to end. It is about funding foundations, associations and religious institutions, and so the mosques. It concerns the implementation of the Segers motion. That's it and not anymore. I will send that to the Chamber, with a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u126	I have the impression you're finishing up.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u127	Yeah, I got two more questions to ask you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u128	And the amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u129	And then, indeed, I will respond to the amendments. Mr Oskam asked about the situation regarding the exit ban. As I promised two or three weeks ago in the debate on the jihadism letter, I will consult the proposal for an exit ban in March. I expect the bill to be presented to the Council of State before the summer. The last question asked Mr Segers about a central reception of returners. There is no basis for the central reception of returners or Syrians, other than in criminal proceedings or after conviction. In the action programme, I announced that the existing instruments are extending their return approach. Criminal investigation includes the possibility to apply elements of the ISD's programme offering towards systematic offenders to returners and administratively I prepare a legislative proposal to take temporary measures, such as a notification obligation or a restraining order. Then I come to the amendments. Mr Van Klaveren's amendment to item No. 7 does not fit in with the amendment of the state law. This is national legislation and the penalty level is balanced and corresponds to similar preparatory offences. There are also no signs in practice that the maximum sentence for prosecutors and judges would not provide sufficient space to demand the punishment or punishment. to impose which they consider appropriate. Finally, Mrs Helder's and Mr De Graaf's amendments to item No. 9. This amendment aims to introduce the automatic loss of rights for persons who have been irrevocably convicted of participating in a terrorist organisation as referred to in Article 140a of the Code of Criminal Law. This element of the bill has just lapsed because of tension with the Rottmann judgment. We have just discussed this in detail. Withdrawal of Dutch citizenship is already possible on this ground. Loss of rights has little added value. If there is cause for withdrawal, it will also be withdrawn, unless there are very serious humanitarian circumstances. We have discussed this in detail. Those are my first-term answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u130	If I am mistaken, or if you have not given an opinion on the Van Klaveren amendment to item No. 8, who wants to arrange for the Minister to withdraw the Dutch citizenship of persons who have been irrevocably convicted of terrorist crimes or recruits?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u131	Thank you very much. It also makes sense that after No. 7 first No. 8 follows and not directly No. 9. I have to discourage that amendment. The Rottmaan judgment requires a proportionality consideration in the event of the withdrawal of Union citizenship. It is not appropriate to have a binding competence, because this does not require a balance of interests. The amendment would thus make the withdrawal option of the Dutch Federation legally vulnerable.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u132	I see another interruption by Mr Schouw.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u133	Not about that amendment. I think I asked another question about Article 134a. That's pretty new. I asked how often it is used in terms of first of all terrorist crimes and second of all foreign military service. I don't know if the Minister has answered that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u134	I answered the question about Rule 134a. The D.A.'s office currently has 15 criminal investigations under this article. I have mentioned this number several times. There are three convictions under Article 134a. In 2013, this was two and in 2015 one. In general, I can say that there are currently around 60 criminal investigations into terrorism and jihad-related crimes, including recruitment, preparation and sedition. Those 60 investigations concern 90 people.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u135	My question was very precise: in how many cases has the Dutch citizenship been withdrawn from persons who committed a terrorist offence or from persons recruited by a foreign military service?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u136	I have also answered that question, which I have not answered at all. I was able to give a very brief answer to Mr Schouw's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u137	That brings us to the end of the first term of office. I have found that we can proceed directly with the second deadline.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u138	Mr. Chairman. I'll be very brief. There are no motions from the PVV side. Our amendment is clear. The Minister has reflected on that. I thank him for that response and for all the answers. Our conclusion must be that this is a very small step forward. We also need to look at all the laws that are coming. The whole package will determine how much safer the Netherlands will be. We expect this to be very small drops on a glowing plate. It takes much more to get the Netherlands really safer. I mentioned those points in the first term. The cabinet doesn't do anything about that. I have spoken about closing borders, removing people, no more asylum influx and stopping mass immigration. In these areas, the breeding ground for our insecurity lies. That's where our insecurity comes from. It's five letters: I, S, L, A and M. The government needs to do more about that. Once again, we support this law, but much more needs to be done. We will continue to remind the cabinet of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u139	Mr. Chairman. I can be short, too. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. It is a pity that we do not yet have a report from the Council of Europe on how to deal with people of a single nationality who engage in terrorist activities. As far as I'm concerned, there's still one point left. I asked the Minister about the balance of interests. The note following the report used the term "very pressing humanitarian circumstances" in this context. It may be that the Minister replied to a question from Mr Schouw and referred to sick people who are in a very serious situation. I asked if the Minister could give a concrete indication of what this means. Can the Minister guarantee that this will be the only blockade for the removal of nationality?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u140	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for the answers to the questions that have been asked. It is clear that we are dealing with jihadism with an evil that must be combated. This calls for a very broad approach. The Secretary of State just recognized that, too. It is about prevention and healing, the ideological change of people. In some cases, it is a question of repression and punishment. The ultimate consequence of jihadism may be that someone himself indicates that he no longer wants to be part of our society, of our Western rule of law. This bill is the ultimate consequence of that. In this sense, the Christian Union Group supports this bill, stating that it is not a panacea. It can only be used alongside the other means I have just mentioned and alongside the other approach. To underline that, I'm tabling a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the approach to jihadism has a high priority;]] [[Whereas this approach has several aspects with the ultimate remedium to withdraw Dutch citizenship;]] [[Considering also that in neighbouring countries, solid, tailor-made deradicalisation pathways are being deployed which appear to be proven to be effective;]] [[calls on the Government, as soon as possible, to implement these deradicalisation pathways and to implement the Integrated Approach to Jihadism in concrete, fast and robust terms and, if necessary, to complement these effective pathways,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Segers and Mr Recourt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34016-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u141	Mr. Chairman. My group would like to thank the Minister and his staff very much for their response and response. We continue to have doubts on a number of points. It's three things, I think. The first is the discriminatory nature. That doubt would be reduced if the Minister gave more insight into his freedom of policy and its implementation. I think that's a little skinny. Perhaps the Minister could elaborate on this in the second term. The second point concerns the effectiveness of the legislative proposal. Is it gonna work, both preventive and the other way? The third point concerns the legal vulnerability, the right of transition. We've talked about that extensively. The Minister looks at that differently than I do. We're gonna see how the First Chamber and the administrative judges look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u142	First, we're going to see how the PvdA Recourt is shaping its interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u143	Mr Schouw talks about discriminatory character. I hear Mr van der Steur saying that I speak the word 'discriminatory' wrong, but we are not going to have that discussion right now. Do we agree that discriminatory character is a problem, but not a problem of this law? After all, this bill does not change that. This bill only adds, "but" in brackets, the 61st element to the 60 that are already there. The question of whether there is a difference in treatment between people with a dual nationality and those with a single nationality is an existing problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u144	It's an existing problem. I can follow a reasoning in which it is said that the Dutch nationality of someone who becomes active in a foreign military force of a country with which we are at war is being withdrawn. I can imagine. If you look at what's happening now, you can see that it's actually being stretched a lot. There is actually more to being driven towards some sort of punishment, a punishment for those who have a double nationality compared to those who do not. That is why I have also introduced this example of these two equal cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u145	It is a good example and it is a good discussion, but not with this bill. Of course, you can talk about the implementation of the law. This law doesn't change anything. I therefore ask again whether Mr Schouw agrees with me that this law does not change a comma or a point in that dilemma.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u146	No, because this law does change something about that, namely that the Minister adds something to it with his bill. So material changes the law, because otherwise we wouldn't be here talking.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u147	Mr Schouw and I had a discussion on this during the first period. I am so curious to see what Mr Schouw thinks the intrinsic difference is now. What, according to his group, is the difference between, on the one hand, someone who is in the service of a military force of a foreign power with which the Netherlands is in hostilities and, on the other hand, a terrorist who does everything in his power to kill the Netherlands and the Dutch? What's the intrinsic difference between those two people?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u148	In the first case, there's a one-on-one relationship. Someone goes into foreign military forces and also actively wages war against the Netherlands, to use that heavy word. So he can actually kill Dutch people. So you can take away the Dutchmanship. However, in an activity in that ISIS battle, we cannot always speak in terms of war and a real war situation. Whether it's a war or not, it's diffuse in that ISIS fight. Moreover, the country against which that war is waged is diffuse. Those are actually the two main differences. I think that Mr Van der Steur recognizes and recognizes these differences.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u149	No, I don't recognize them. The VVD Group would first of all like to point out to Mr Schouw that this law also applies to terrorists who do the things Mr Schouw is talking about in the Netherlands. The law also applies to someone who shoots Dutch people with a machine gun in the Netherlands because the person concerned thinks that Dutch people are not allowed to live. That's what the ideology of IS is about. This is exactly the same comparison that Mr Schouw just made. That is exactly the same as someone who shoots Dutch people in foreign military service. Secondly, Article 134a also recognises that all forms of terrorist threat can constitute a criminal offence and must therefore also lead to the loss of Dutch citizenship. So there is no intrinsic difference between the two as far as the VVD Group is concerned. Both of them aim to kill the Dutch. Moreover, foreign military service does not always automatically acquire the nationality of the foreign country. So we have accepted together for a very long time that this may lead to statelessness.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u150	Well, I think the VVD Group and the D66 group are simply different on this point. This proved to be the case in the first term. My group believes, first of all, that we should be very careful with this type of enlargement. Secondly, my group believes that we should be even more careful about taking away Dutch citizenship as a kind of punishment. Mr Van der Steur tried to make a decent song of that in his first term. I am very pleased that the Minister, in turn, has put the VVD Group on that point. At least the Minister said that we are not going to do this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u151	I do not recognize Mr Schouw's paraphrase of what the Minister said. I believe that the Minister has given a very careful answer to my group's question. I note, however, that the members of the D66 Group say: it is more important to us that a terrorist can remain a Dutchman who does everything he can to put an end to Dutch society, the Dutch people and everything they stand for. In any case, the VVD Group does not follow D66's reasoning.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u152	I didn't say that either. One terrorist isn't the other terrorist yet. We are not very much in favour of taking away Dutch citizenship as a punishment. So you have to keep that very limited. I note that the VVD Group is much more generous in this respect. It's okay. Fortunately, the government is a little more sensible on this issue than the VVD Group. The government says, "We're not gonna force people into a mass statelessness." The government also says that it respects the international agreements that have been made on this issue. Bravo for the cabinet on that point. I understand that the loss for Mr Van der Steur is a bit sensitive, but he will have to take it. I've got two more motions. First of all, there is the question of effectiveness. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is important to take only effective measures to combat jihadism;]] [[Whereas if a law does not work, it should preferably be repealed;]] [[invites the Government to review this law within three years on at least the following points:]] [[the number of prosecutions and irrevocable convictions for Article 134a Sr;]] [[which of the convicted persons has multiple nationality;]] [[in which cases the basis for the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship is subsequently used,]] [[send the results to the Chamber,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that it has been suggested that depriving Dutch nationality could lead to statelessness;]] [[Considering that such action is contrary to the UN Convention on the Limitation of Statelessness and the European Convention on Nationality;]] [[believes that statelessness should be combated as much as possible and not seen as a criminal measure;]] [[calls on the Government not to participate in or participate in any way in the extension of the possibilities of taking away nationality with the consequence of being Stateless, nor to launch initiatives to that end,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Schouw and Mr Gesthuizen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34016-(R2036)-11]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Schouw and Mr Segers. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34016-(R2036)-12]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u153	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for the answers. As I said in the first time, my group believes that the proposal is a step in the right direction. There will be more opportunities to take Dutch nationality away from terrorist offences. That's good. However, it's too late. Of course, this proposal should have been dealt with months ago. Furthermore, this proposal is far too conservative. In this way, the Minister may withdraw the Dutch citizenship in the case of terrorist offences. This must, of course, be replaced by'must proceed to'. As far as my group is concerned, jihadists always lose the Dutch. She has tabled an amendment to that effect. Unfortunately, the cabinet believes that some jihadists can apparently remain Dutch. That's insufferable. In addition, as far as my group is concerned, the maximum penalty for preparatory acts for terrorism should be increased from eight to twelve years. My group has tabled an amendment on this, but the cabinet is also failing to do so. I'm shutting down the way I started. The proposal is a step in the right direction, but all in all it breathes the "too little, too late" attitude of this cabinet when it comes to combating Islamic terrorism.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u154	Mr. Chairman. We do not agree on a whole series of issues. First of all, I would like to briefly consider whether or not an unlawful distinction is made. The Minister argues that he does so on a number of points with regard to the fact that this is not the case. He argues that the situation as we know it is really only slightly changed by the expansion of something and that it is already possible to distinguish between someone with a double and someone with a single nationality. That is true, but I said very clearly in the first term that this group is getting bigger and more diverse. This also means that this goes even further than Mr Schouw's example, in principle someone who has committed a less serious criminal offence should not retain the Dutch identity and someone who has committed the most terrible forms of crime related to terrorism could remain Dutch. In the case of a less serious form of crime, someone could lose Dutch citizenship, while in another case someone could remain Dutch. I do not think that is in line with the spirit of the laws that we know about equal treatment. My group has a permanent problem with that. It is not entirely clear to me what the Council of Europe will have to talk about when it comes to statelessness. The Minister does say that he thinks it is important to have that discussion. Like the Minister, I see that several countries are struggling with this problem, but I do not know what the Minister sees as a subject of discussion and where he wants to go in that discussion. The Minister says that the criminal court will not anticipate the possible withdrawal of nationality and will not take this into account in the sentence, the sentence or the measure of punishment. That's a vision of the cabinet. But what if it does? The essential interests remain. Like Mr Schouw, I note that the circle of people who are to fall among those who are not loyal to the Netherlands, who would violate the essential interests of the Netherlands, is increasing. I have already said that I think we are making it increasingly vague, especially with the enlargement we are discussing today. It used to be the case that you had to act contrary to the loyalty to the Netherlands. Now we seem to be getting further and further away from that. Terrorism is a horrible form of crime, I cannot say that often enough, but isn't this legal amendment also a piece of symptom control or panic football? What Mr Van der Steur just said in an interrupting debate with Mr Schouw led me to believe that he is pretending that when we look out the windows, we already see people carrying machine guns mowing down Dutch people. I think that's a witness to panic football. To be honest, it also creates a climate of anxiety. I do not think that this is wise when it comes to this kind of serious legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u155	Mr. Chairman. Allow me to point out to Mrs Gesthuizen that her presentation of what I would have said is incorrect. I did not say that, but I would like to inform her that, given the threat level in this country, the whole of the Netherlands is seriously considering the possibility of a terrorist attack in the Netherlands. This is not happening right now, but the chances of this happening are high, and I hope Mrs Gesthuizen knows that as well as I do. My group and many other groups in this Chamber are very keen to do everything in their power to prevent this and to take appropriate measures when this happens. That's what this bill is all about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u156	For this reason, too, it seems sensible to me to discuss sensible laws in the Chamber and to bring them into force, rather than legislation which I feel is mainly concerned with symptom control and a piece of panic football, precisely because of the safety of those people out there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u157	I'd like to leave Mrs. Gesthuizen's feelings at her own expense. I think it is wise to look around us, at France and at Denmark, and to realise that international terrorism is a major threat. If Mrs Gesthuizen always thinks that all these measures are unwise, which is often the case with the SP, then at the end of the journey you will have nothing left. Then the VVD Group is a bit more realistic by saying that this is one of the measures we are taking. That is right, because people who live in the Netherlands are not supposed to have Dutch citizenship.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u158	Mr Van der Steur would have a point, had it not been that at the beginning of my speech I expressly stated in the first term that the government can count on broad support from the SP on a large number of points of approach to jihadism. I note only that I find it very unfortunate that Mr Van der Steur has just used the words literally in an interruption with Mr Schouw: people who are shooting Dutch people with machine guns. Mr Van der Steur may do that, but I think that goes a long way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u159	Mr Van der Steur is addressed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u160	It is very annoying, but Mrs Gesthuizen will have to turn to the Acts. I have given this as an example to show that there is no intrinsic difference, which according to D66 does exist, between someone who in foreign military service and someone who does what I have just said in the Netherlands, namely shoots people. I did not say that this will happen tomorrow or now, as Mrs Gesthuizen says. I just said that the difference between these two does not exist, because in both cases it is people who want to shoot people who live and work in the Netherlands and who believe in Dutch values. That's what I said. I don't know what Mrs Gesthuizen always wants to make of that, and I don't understand why she keeps doing that. It would be wiser if the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats realised that this measure was also sensible in the fight against terrorism.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u161	In that light, I think it is interesting to say now what I had in my speech, namely that I think terrorism is a terrible form of crime, but that I find it increasingly difficult to understand why we want to deprive terrorists with machine guns of Dutch nationality, but not other criminals, who may also be walking around with a machine gun and shooting people, not. I have that again, because of the way in which Mr Van der Steur flies on this subject. And this is exactly that sloping plane. I can't get a grip on that, even when I hear the VVD Group. That's why I use the term "panic football." I understand very well; I sometimes panic when I open the newspaper and see what a terrible terrorist attack is happening from Nigeria, Afghanistan, Iraq and Syria to France and Denmark. Of course, that freaks out every normal person. But what's the difference between one man with a machine gun and the other? That is why I think we would be doing much better at the moment to keep our heads down, and I would say very bluntly that we should not waste our time on matters of which I am very much wondering whether they will contribute to the safety of the people in the country. It is better to save our energy for things that I believe will. As far as the latter is concerned, if the Minister comes up with such proposals, and he and the cabinet will do so, he will receive the full support of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u162	I don't panic that easily. But when I hear Mrs Gesthuizen from the SP, I have Atocha in Madrid, London, Copenhagen, Mehdi Nemmouche, Toulouse and the Jewish school in mind. I can mention more. It's always terror, terror, terror. And we have open borders. If we want to take action against this, how can we speak of 'panic football'? I have made it clear twice that we do not think these measures go far enough. I am really shocked by Mrs Gesthuizen's comment. I ask her: what is wise?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u163	In this respect, we are even; Mr De Graaf does not want to know how often I am afraid of his comments. But that aside. Yeah, it's true there's a lot going on. At the same time, I have to say that, unlike the PVV Group here always wants to make it look like, that terror really does not always come from people who are recruited for a jihad or feel related to it. But this bill is based on the fact that we are now dealing with boys and girls, but especially boys, who are travelling to support ISIS; on nothing else. That's exactly the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u164	Mrs. Gesthuizen can often startle me, but I don't walk with a kalashnikov. I don't handle a gun. Those people do. I think the SP is looking away from that. The SP wants to keep the borders open, it does not want to take measures, it wants to import more potential jihadists into the Netherlands. There are 200,000 to 600,000 people waiting in Libya to go to the Netherlands through Italy along all these open borders. Among them are terrorists; each thousand about twenty to fifty, so we were able to read from the week. Those are people, but with terrorist motives, motivated by Islam. The SP lets them all come in, and we don't do anything about it. It's a good thing people at home get to hear that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u165	I find it terribly exhausting to have to debate in such a way, with so much nonsense in a single interruption, but I would like to respond briefly to this. I never know what the PVV always means by "closing" borders. Could that literally mean that we no longer receive anyone as a guest in our country? Should we say no to tourists, for example? I realize like no other that we live in a dangerous time. Frankly, I do not know if this time is much more dangerous than other periods, but there are certainly dangers and threats now. I also know that there are many people, not even so far from this house, who would give a lot to change Dutch society and who would not hesitate to use force. We have a rule of law in the Netherlands. We attach importance to issues such as equal treatment, freedom of religion and protection for all, even if it is a criminal. It seems to me very sensible to stick to the principles on which the rule of law is based, to the principle of equality, to the principle of fair treatment of everyone and to the principle of non-righteousness of people, even if they are convicted of the most serious crimes. If you do cross that bridge, I think you're gonna increase the situation a lot. Then you will only make it more dangerous in the Netherlands, not from outside, as Mr De Graaf now suggests, people who want to come here from Libya or from Syria, but from within. That was my second final point. In my view, I have given an adequate answer to what I find difficult in the question of the extent to which the essential interests of the Netherlands are at stake. They are at stake, but I find it difficult for this to continue to be watered down. When are you so dangerous to the state that we have to take your nationality away from you? When can we be satisfied with a firm punishment and possibly with lasting measures if someone remains dangerous?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u166	May I ask Members to speak outside the Chamber? A Member has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u167	Thank you, Mr President. "The member" is not affected, but thank you. Finally, I come to transitional rights. I have already announced that I would like to make an amendment to this effect. I certainly will. I mentioned a judgment, but I think the Minister used a different judgment as an example. The judgment I am referring to refers to the criteria used by the ECHR to indicate whether there is a measure of a punitive nature, regardless of how it stands. It is therefore a question of whether or not there is a penalty. This includes the legal classification, the offence under national law, the type of crime, the purpose, type and severity of the measure and the legal characterization of the measure. It also examines whether the measure has been imposed following a conviction for a criminal offence. In addition, the procedures that came to look at the design and implementation of the measure are being considered. For many of these criteria, I believe that the measure advocated by the Minister today falls within the category of measures of a punitive nature. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Ik kan dus niet anders dan constateren dat het Europees Hof voor de Rechten van de Mens in jurisprudentie al heeft vastgelegd dat in dit soort gevallen artikel 6 en artikel 7 van het EVRM wel degelijk gelden.]] I therefore look forward with interest to voting on this law and my amendment. If the law is adopted unchanged, i.e. in the form of the Minister's proposal, I, like Mr Schouw, see with interest what a national court or an international judge will make of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u168	Mr. Chairman. Addressing and combating terrorism and today's terrorists very hard and with the same energy preventing the emergence of tomorrow's terrorists: that is the task of this cabinet and of everyone in the Netherlands who is involved in this. That's the assignment the cabinet took. Today we are talking again about the one leg, the combatant leg, the repressive leg. So I have to say again that this is the 61st element, which is added to the 60 elements that already exist in order to deprive someone of Dutch citizenship. In that sense, we must assess this bill. There are all kinds of arguments about the sloping plane. There is a dilemma. Is it discriminatory or not? I can see that dilemma, but not with this bill. This bill does nothing on this point. What this bill does have in mind is whether proportionality should be taken into account in the possible withdrawal of Dutch citizenship. The Minister said it's not exhaustive. He didn't want to give examples. Eventually, he did give one, but he doesn't want to limit it. I think that is wise, insofar as I understand him so much that age can be an element. I believe that this has been mentioned. Someone's share of the crime also plays a role. You can be a small cop or a major. Equality with others in a crime also plays a role. So all these elements can play a role. I find it reassuring that the administrative judge should check whether the Minister has indeed judged proportionate, bearing in mind the demand of the European Court of Human Rights. The court says: you may deprive someone of Dutch nationality, provided you use a proportionality test. That must, of course, be a substantive test, as the European Court always does. You should not mention proportionality without actually applying it. In my opinion, it is well secured in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u169	Mr. Chairman. As said in the first term, the Dijkhoff motion, which was supported by many parties, gave rise to the legislative proposal. Once again, I would like to thank the Minister very much for taking up this spirit of the VVD Group and many other groups so swiftly. However, that does not mean that the VVD stops thinking. It realizes that international terrorism is constantly calling for new ways of combating it, for new instruments to be developed and for new laws to be introduced to enable it to be used. I have already referred to and quoted from Mr Dijkhoff's dissertation, which has been promoted to that conclusion. The VVD Group still considers it desirable that in future there should be an exception clause in these treaties, aligning the position of terrorists, who are fighting against the people in a state, and the position of soldiers of a foreign army, who are doing exactly the same thing. In essence, those two groups want the same thing and their goals are no different, although D66 and the SP want to believe that there is an intrinsic difference between those two. People who, in whatever form, Dutch society, Dutch ideas, freedom of religion, freedom of expression, freedom of people to do and do what they want and do not want to accept the integrity of the human body, according to the VVD Group do not deserve Dutch nationality.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u170	Mr Dijkgraaf has signed off on obligations elsewhere, so we now come to the last speaker in the second term of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u171	Mr. Chairman. We thank the Minister for his answers, although they were disappointing. We regret that the Minister is continuing on the path he has taken. This is an unfair path, because people with dual nationality are simply punished more severely. The Minister can insist that the withdrawal of Dutch nationality is an administrative measure and not a punitive measure, but that is difficult to explain to the people. I can also say that the consequence of the vast majority of traffic offences, namely that you get an envelope from the CJIB home, is also an administrative measure, but explain to people that this is not a punishment. Furthermore, we do not see the logic and effectiveness of the legislative proposal. It is pure symbolic policy whose effectiveness is nil. The Advisory Committee on Foreign Affairs considers that the bill is at odds with fundamental rights. The fact that the Minister wants to sign for this, I can still follow, but that the PvdA wants to do so, gives much more to think about. Mr Recourt's input was significant. His reasoning is that the present legislative amendment is only a small addition to the 60 existing articles and that Dutch citizenship can also be reduced in countless other situations. In essence, he says: there is already a lot of injustice, there is a little bit of injustice, and that is staggering. Nice, such a decisive cabinet, but it's a shame you have to turn in principles for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u172	I'm just gonna slow down because the minister has lost a piece of paper. He just said without his microphone on that this can occur in the best circles. I think the paper will be handed to him this way. I shall therefore suspend the sitting for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u173	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Members for their second-term contributions. I would like to answer the short questions and provide the motions with a judicium. Mr Oskam has come back to the balance of interests. Others have asked for that too. I can simply repeat what I said about it in the first term. I went into that in detail at the time. The starting point is to withdraw after criminal conviction. Only in exceptional cases does the balancing of interests force another outcome. In principle, therefore, there will be a question of withdrawal. However, it is not automatic. A proportionate balance will be struck. It is situated in the individual circumstances of the person himself. There is little to add to that. Above all, we must stick to this consistently.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u174	Sometimes it comes down to words. The Minister just spoke of "in person." Then you might think that person is seriously ill or something. However, I believe that the concept of proportionality should be taken into account more widely and also, for example, the role that person has played in the criminal offence. Maybe he had a minuscule share and got a ten-dollar fine from the criminal. I mean, that could be a big deal, couldn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u175	Oh, yeah. Let me put it exactly as I did in the first term. I then spoke of "individual circumstances of the person himself." Then I come to Mr Segers. He didn't ask any questions. Anything in the motion by Mr Segers and Mr Recourt on item No. 10 is in line with what I have said and whatever we are in favour of the integrated jihadism action programme. We would like to leave this motion to the House. I come to Mr Schouw. With regard to discrimination and freedom of policy, I can say once again that cases are never equal. I think that is important, and I said it in the first term. There are no similar cases. Mr Recourt was right to point out that this legislative proposal does not change this situation. In the current situation, all this is also on the agenda. Furthermore, I have nothing to add to what I said in the first term. I would also like to repeat what I said earlier on the application of proportionality. I do not think that I should restrict the Minister's discretion in this matter with all kinds of cases and criteria. It is not necessary and, because of the individual nature of such a policy framework, it is also difficult to concrete in this situation. The motion in part No. 11 has my sympathy. It calls for the draft law to be reviewed after three years. I'll leave this motion to the House's judgment. If the majority of the House appreciates this, I will not advise against this motion. At the motion in part No. 12 It is important that I repeat once again that I wish to continue the request I made to the Council of Europe SG in Strasbourg, as Mrs Gesthuizen also asks. I have referred the specific question about the extent, other links and the tension between the ban on statelessness and the need to withdraw nationality to those Member States. I'll reappear in that. It is good to know how this debate is being discussed everywhere, how it is being fed, what the views are and how they are being taken into account. That is also good for our discussion, because we are also faced with it. The cabinet does not intend to question the European Treaty either. With regard to the recital "that such action is contrary to the UN Convention on the Limitation of Statelessness and the European Convention on Nationality; believe that statelessness should be combated as far as possible and not seen as a criminal measure," I have already promised that the cabinet will not change this now. However, I do object to the classification of the withdrawal of nationality as a criminal measure and I do not wish to give rise to any misunderstanding about the situation we are facing. I therefore advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u176	Mrs. Gesthuizen?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u177	A word about this discussion in the Council of Europe. The Minister says that this discussion is everywhere, but what discussion does he mean? Is he referring purely to the fact that countries are struggling with the question of whether they should take away nationality, or is he referring to the question that could be raised in several countries, namely: we do want to take away someone's nationality, but then we find that he has only one nationality and that we cannot make him stateless?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u178	Indeed, this very discussion, which is being held here, is taking place everywhere. In doing so, it is good to take note of how this happens in other countries. I indicated that in the written procedure with the legislative proposal. I have only now indicated that we have not yet received a reply from Strasbourg and that we would like to ask for it. I have set out the framework conditions further, so that is our point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u179	I do not want to be annoying, of course, and I hope the Minister does not take it that way, but we are not having that discussion here at all. We are discussing whether or not we should take away nationality, but not, if I have understood the Minister correctly, the debate on what to do with statelessness? I thought the Minister wanted to stay far from it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u180	I have made it clear that we, as a cabinet, do not intend to do so and will not do so. I said that tighter. But I did say that I am not closing my eyes to the discussion that is also taking place in other countries, just like here. We are talking about double nationality, and you are also arguing that this is the case, and the withdrawal of the nationality that is at issue, also in relation to terrorist offences. I think it is good that we know together how it is experienced at the level of the Council of Europe in the different countries. Surely it is good to take note of that and to participate in that debate?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u181	The Minister has the motion in part No. 12 dissuaded, but then he says he agrees with everything. The operative part states that: do not cooperate in promoting statelessness. The Minister agrees. He also agrees that it is not a punishment measure. Can the Minister state what he disagrees with?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u182	I object to qualifying the withdrawal of nationality as a criminal measure. That's obvious. I have also indicated that I do not need this motion. I would like to make no mistake that we are doing no more, but we are doing no less than asking the Council of Europe about this and taking note of it. There's a line of their own. I do not need a motion to underline that once again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u183	I certainly did not read that the current bill should be seen as a penal measure. I do not think it says that, but perhaps the author can clarify it. Nor does the operative part say that what has already been requested from the Council of Europe should not be allowed. That happened a long time ago. I do not therefore see any discrepancy between the views of the Minister and the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u184	But then there's no room to do anything. I would nevertheless like to take note of what is going on from Strasbourg. I have clearly stated the conditions. In any case, that is the intention of the cabinet. But we do want to know what is coming from Strasbourg. We want to be a grown-up. It's obvious that's how you do it. That's the point. I said this is the starting point. I understand there's good support for that in the Chamber. Then let's do this. Then there's no misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u185	Mr Recourt tried to persuade the Minister to follow his point of view by asking Mr Schouw for further explanations.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u186	I think that I must come to the very heart of the points raised by Mr Recourt. It is absolutely not intended that this motion should prevent the Minister from taking notice of anything else. That is also the essence of my comment. So the motion doesn't prevent the minister. I'm getting to the point of punishment. There is, of course, no reference to this minister's pending bill. I think that this has given me a very clear explanation on those two points. I also think that the Minister, in line with his great contribution in the first term, can wholeheartedly, or perhaps less heartily, see this motion as a support for his policy and therefore leave it to the Chamber to judge with confidence. That's the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u187	That is the essence of your advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u188	Mr Schouw and I may also disagree on this. I don't think that's necessary. I've been crystal clear and clear. I'll tell you what I'm doing. I do not want to close the door for a discussion that can also take place here. That may be a nuance difference with Mr Schouw. That discussion is also taking place here. Let me put it in a more nuanced way: I think it is wrong to prevent further reflection.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u189	The Minister indicated the moral minimum in the debate, namely that this should not lead to statelessness. That has been discussed in the Chamber. Some groups have said that it might well be possible to do so. Well, then it's obvious that the Court should rule on that, isn't it? If it's in line with what the minister said, wouldn't you say he'd leave the verdict to the Chamber? It is a support of the moral lower limit indicated by the Minister as a line. Then the advice would have to be "judge chamber"?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u190	That is the difference in nuance which I also indicated to Mr Schouw through the chairman. That is what I am saying to the other petitioner, Mr Segers. I've clearly drawn the line. I'm not taking back a word of that. We have asked this question in Strasbourg, regardless of the debate, in the preparation of this bill. I want that to come back and not do it in such a way that we completely close the door to further reflection. It can't be. That is the difference; we must act in an open and realistic manner. Then I come to Mrs Gesthuizen's contribution. We have just discussed double and single nationality. There are essential interests. Let me say that there is no symptom control or panic football. We are talking about terrorist offences. Let us make no mistake about that. There is a careful guarantee: first a criminal conviction and then the taking away of Dutch citizenship. The law requires that this should take place proportionally. I hope that Mrs Gesthuizen will finally be able to overcome her objections. I have not yet received the amendment. We have crossed swords in the first term. In my opinion, this is absolutely a real proposal, given the circumstances and the purpose for which we are doing so. The rule of law is held. I have not received any questions from Mr Recourt or Mr Van der Steur. I am sorry that Mr Kuzu does not agree with this, but this can be seen in a debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u191	This brings us to the end of the second term on the part of the cabinet. I thank the Minister for the answers he has given.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-10.u192	We shall be voting on the amendments, the legislative proposal and the motions on Tuesday. I shall suspend the sitting until 7.30 p.m., subject to reservations. In the meantime, there may be an additional request for work to be carried out. You will then be informed.
