ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u1	This is the third term. The bill was submitted in 2006. Which one of us was in the House of Representatives back then? I see Mr Bosma raises his hand immediately. Then we have historical knowledge here. This bill was also mentioned once in 2009. So now we move on to the third term. We'll see how it goes. I welcome Mr Van der Staaij. It's always nice and special to be in box K. He is supported by Peter Boswijk. Of course, I would also like to welcome Minister Plasterk.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. You already recalled the year in which the bill was first discussed in this house. The last time the House of Representatives debated it was on 17 June 2009. We are now six years ahead and we are meeting today for the third term, which is already special. Let us hope and trust that it is also the final deadline. After two previous VVD speakers, it is now my turn to congratulate the initiator on his continued commitment to this bill, as well as his employees. The previous VVD spokesperson during the discussion of this bill was Willibrord van Beek, the current commissioner of the King in Utrecht. On 17 June he said in the debate: "Sometimes the world is very simple. Then you're against something or something and you can build up your argument, depending on the position you're taking. In this case, the process, the examination of the documents and the discussion in the group, and all of this, will lead to a rise and decline. There are elements that appeal to us very much, but there are also objections. This is not a black and white matter for us." Van Beek then asked whether the proposal could be retained until the State Commission came forward with its findings. He announced, as you are used to from the VVD, that we would not reach the moment when we would form our judgement until after a total weighing-down. With the last letter of amendment, that moment is here. This last amendment, which requires a two-thirds majority in the case of a transfer of powers to the European Union, but which is sufficient for a simple majority in the case of a return of powers to the Member States, makes the opinion of the VVD's group on this legislative proposal positive. The VVD attaches great importance to parliamentary involvement in the conclusion of treaties and supports the purpose of the legislative proposal, recognising and anchoring the special position of the European Union in our Constitution. In the opinion of the VVD, this proposal is both a codification and a guarantee of existing practice. I still have a question for the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations. The initiator has previously referred to the fact that other EU Member States, such as Germany, the Czech Republic, Austria, Luxembourg, Hungary and Romania, also have a weighted procedure for the adoption of EU treaties. The Minister's VVD Group would like to hear how he assesses the negotiating position of these countries in the event of treaty changes. Is it his assessment that these countries now have a stronger or weaker negotiating position in European treaty negotiations?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u3	Mr Taverne spoke of a guarantee of current practice. When I hear that, I say: what is the extra purpose of this initiative proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u4	This is intended to guarantee current practice, in the future. The practice is that treaty changes in this house are usually adopted by two thirds of a majority. That's good. We codify that with this proposal. In order to ensure that this practice continues and that the majority is not by chance two thirds each time, this bill is very useful.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u5	Either Mr Taverne has little faith in the Chamber, in the future, or he does, but this does not matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u6	I have a great deal of confidence in the House of Representatives, if only because I show this on other points by, for example, the review of the Constitutional Treaty in the previous Vao'tje it was very briefly discussed when it was about wanting to leave human rights in the Chamber and want to strengthen it. As far as I am concerned, that shows how much confidence I have not only in the Second Chamber, but also in the Upper Chamber. It's not that, but you never know for the future. Why wouldn't you just record it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u7	Mr. Chairman. It is sometimes said that those who wish to amend the Constitution must have a long life. This certainly applies to Mr Van der Staaij and to him Mr Herben of the LPF. This bill has been in the Lower House for almost nine years and has already been dealt with in full. Let us hope for them that we will come to a conclusion today in the third term. My group opposed this constitutional change in 2009 and is still opposed to it. Our Constitution already has a balanced system for the adoption of treaties. A normal treaty is decided by parliament either implicitly or by simple majority by law. If a treaty contains provisions derogating from the Constitution, both the Lower House and the Upper House must agree to two thirds of the votes. Without that permission, the Netherlands does not commit itself to that treaty. That's very clear. That heavy procedure is also used in the event of doubt. This turned out to be necessary once or twice, for example in the European defence community, the agreement with Indonesia on New Guinea, the establishment of the International Criminal Court: they are all examples in which, where necessary, the procedure was followed by the reinforced majority. The Chamber shows that it takes its responsibility seriously. As my former colleague Boris van der Ham said in his contribution in 2009: a two-thirds majority in the Second Chamber and in the First Chamber is always agreed with European treaties. I see only Mr Van Raak back here from the speakers of that time. Mr Bosma was not present at the time. I took a look at that, too. For those who were not present at the time, or who were not then the spokesperson, I should like to mention the following: the Treaty of Lisbon, the Treaty of Nice, the Treaty of Amsterdam, the Treaty of Maastricht, the Single European Act. In any case, a two-thirds majority has so far been accepted by European treaties. So Mr Van der Staaij's bill doesn't really change anything. Let us assume that by mistake the parliament would not be a representative of the people and that a treaty against which the Dutch electorate is opposed would be approved. Then a referendum can be requested since 1 July, made possible by D66, the PvdA and GroenLinks. Interestingly, the SGP voted against in both chambers. On the one hand, the initiator of the SGP is concerned that Parliament does not apply rules properly and that it does not agree with a treaty with provisions that depart from the Constitution by a strengthened majority. He wants to build a guarantee against this with his proposal. On the other hand, he does not want to give people an emergency brake or a correction on all kinds of other laws of the, in his view, apparently unreliable parliament. I mention all the measures taken by the VVD and PvdA in recent years that broke down our rule of law. Does Mr Van der Staaij not think that this is inconsistent? Can we count on his party's support in amending the Constitution to allow a binding corrective referendum?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u8	I now give room for questions, first to Mr Bishop of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u9	It would also be nice if D66 were to declare in advance that they are prepared to respect the outcome of a referendum. I would remind you of a particular treaty on the EU, which was agreed in the Netherlands with a two-thirds majority in a referendum and then accepted in cosmetically modified form through the Lower House, with the support of D66. But aside from that... I would like to point out that Mrs Koşer Kaya is confusing two things here, namely, on the one hand, Parliament's responsibility to deal carefully with decision-making, especially as regards the transfer of sovereignty and matters which limit the powers of the Dutch government in favour of extending the EU's sovereignty, and, on the other hand, a referendum. A referendum has to do with the direct consultation of the people. We have chosen and continue to opt for a representative democracy in our system. That is the starting point. We can, of course, blur all kinds of elements of a direct democracy in it, but then you have to choose to allow that system to be clouded. I mean that state law; it is not a ruling on the value of a referendum in itself. Does Mrs Koşer Kaya agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u10	The point is that Mr Bishop says 'I have faith in Parliament; one knows when one can use what instrument'. In the past, the Chamber has always shown that treaties which do not affect the Constitution are also adopted by two-thirds majority. I have mentioned a few examples of this. If you see that confidence and appreciate it, you also indicate that this initiative is needed. If Mr Bishop thinks that the Chamber has left this behind and has been careless, then Mr Bishop must say so. If that is not the case, then there is a real emergency brake. As you know, my party wants a binding corrective referendum. You give people the opportunity to use that and say to the Chamber: you did not do the right thing here. Now that's effective. A people who pay very close attention to what happens in the Chamber can then pull the emergency brake if it is necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u11	I do my utmost to discover here a beginning of an answer to my question...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u12	Then your question was unclear.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u13	Let's let each other finish. Mr Bishop has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u14	I notice a contradiction in Mrs Koşer Kaya's speech. On the one hand, she says that the Dutch Parliament is already handling two-thirds of the population and so on, but that does not make this bill superfluous. Mrs Koşer Kaya's speech is supported by this bill, isn't it? Why this contradiction, I ask the honourable Member of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u15	Mr Bishop himself has already pointed out that in practice what the initiative requires is already being done in the Chamber. I expect the SGP to be better and more careful, certainly from an SGP that knows that this is already happening in the Chamber and that you do not submit unnecessary laws.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u16	This looks like entrapment. That is why Mr Bishop may respond briefly, but further interruptions will take place in two.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u17	The SGP will be challenged. The SGP is put away here a bit like: it's messing around, it wants to introduce an extra, unnecessary and unnecessary law. No, it's not! It is precisely because the Chamber is acting carefully, as Mrs Koşer Kaya herself says, that is being codified in this law. That's how you avoid later discussions. I challenge Mrs Koşer Kaya to explain very clearly what, in her view, might be against this initiative proposal. I haven't discovered a trace of justification for a vote against.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u18	Laws must be made because it is necessary and not to lay down the practice that has been carefully established here in the Chamber again in a law. That's unnecessary. I've been very clear about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u19	I'll give it a shot, too. Am I right in saying that D66 as a party, the name Democrats '66 already makes it a bit of a suspicion that strengthening democracy and democratic processes in the Netherlands are of paramount importance?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u20	If necessary, yes. But in this case, we've shown over and over again that it's not necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u21	Let's assume that's an affirmative answer. Then I do not fully understand the reasoning. Mrs. Koşer Kaya just said the following. Suppose the House of Representatives does not represent the people for a moment and adopts a treaty in which the majority of the population is not in a position to agree. But let's say that that would be a referendum on a subject that D66 thinks is too complicated to present to Dutch voters. On the basis of the most recent example, the Association Agreement with Ukraine, I understand from the political leader of D66, Mr Pechtold, that this is too complicated to present to the people. How am I supposed to reconcile that with a strengthening of democracy? Why would the fixing of a two-thirds majority in this type of transfer of powers hinder the strengthening of democracy? It is precisely a strengthening of democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u22	Mr Taverne was elected to vote for or against motions, amendments and/or legislative proposals almost every day. That's what he was hired for. When a law comes through the Chamber, 300,000 people think it is not a good law, they have the right to raise it in a referendum. That's what we've been fighting for for years. As far as we are concerned, this may also be a binding corrective referendum. I call on Mr Taverne to make that possible. That's real democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u23	I don't quite follow the reasoning. The practice is that there is a two-thirds majority, so that we do not have to change the Constitution. Is it not much better to assume that the principle of the Constitution is right that a simple majority is already sufficient? In practice, many laws are passed unanimously in this Chamber. Then we can also say that all the laws here must be passed unanimously. So the practice is not so relevant, it is much more about the theory. Isn't the theory much more important?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u24	Now it's gonna be very dangerous! The theory would be more important than the practice. Then we'll never have to pay attention to what's happening outside this room again. Then we can write all kinds of beautiful theoretical things, which then don't work at all in practice. I am concerned that this Chamber has shown time and time again that it can accept its responsibility, that it can handle it carefully and that a simple majority can decide that a two-thirds majority is necessary to adopt a legislative proposal or not. Whether you have faith in the Chamber and think that the practice works, so that there is no need for a Constitutional change, or you do not have confidence in the Chamber, so that there is a need for a Constitutional change. We have confidence in the Chamber, which has shown that time and time again. The practice that is so well filled out by the Chamber does not need to take shape in a law. In fact, I don't think you should make laws for everything. It's not the laws that make people obey anything. People stick to something because they think they should stick to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u25	I fully agree with the latter. Behind the Constitution, however, are principles of rule of law, perhaps I have just mistakenly referred to this theory as why a simple majority was chosen in the Constitution for an amendment. The practice could be different. Mind you, it doesn't necessarily have to be different. That is why the initiative proposal is there, precisely to lay down the practice. You note that it is the practice and that you wonder why it needs to be changed. I find the other argument more logical, but much more important is that you make an argument why you should actually stick to a simple majority.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u26	We're going in circles, and I don't think that's gonna do much good. My question still stands. If you have faith in the Chamber, which each time shows that it is responsible for dealing with the existing rules, it does not need to be changed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u27	It's about the rules of our democracy. If we want to change the Constitution, we need a two-thirds majority, as has been established. When it comes to European deadlines, it can also be done with a two-thirds majority, provided that a simple majority agrees, and that is precisely where the problem lies. We are drawing up the rules of the game or the referee's booklet here, and that must be clear. The Constitution, which lays down the rules of the game for our politics, must not be subject to rules other than those governing the rules of the game for our politics.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u28	The simple majority can, as Mr Van Raak says, decide, in doubt, that it will be a two-thirds majority. If the Chamber shows that every time, I really don't understand why that should change. By the way, the committee that has carried out this research has also stated that it is better to use your instruments.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u29	The fundamental problem is that a minority on the field, one club, can determine whether the other is out of play or whether or not the ball is over the line. That's where the problem is. Surely it is not possible for a simple majority to decide whether a two-thirds majority is necessary? After all, you have a simple majority.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u30	Those are the rules of democracy. The real problem is: do you think that the Chamber has so far shown that it is taking its responsibility and do you have faith in it, or do you think that it will not show it in the future, as Mr Taverne just said?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u31	I'm talking about Mrs Koşer Kaya defending something that doesn't make sense. I'm trying to figure out why.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u32	I am just trying to point out that some parties are using this initiative proposal on something that has always worked logically and well so far to raise their agenda to move Europe further away.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u33	A secret agenda!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u34	Well, that's what you're pretty clear about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u35	Ms Koşer Kaya continued her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u36	Isn't it better to be more focused on the current procedure? I have just indicated that the Constitutional Affairs Committee has also recommended this to Parliament. Moreover, the corrective referendum is many times more effective than a strengthened parliamentary majority if you want a law to be handled carefully. Only 300 000 requests can bring about a referendum. That's about five seats in the Lower House. The electorate of the Christian Union could therefore already enforce a review of a law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u37	It is getting very furious now, because Mrs Koşer Kaya says: thanks to the Referendum law, referendums can now be held on the European treaties. Can I just point out to Mrs Koşer Kaya that when D66, GroenLinks and the Labour Party submitted that bill, you could hold a referendum almost everywhere except on European treaties? Thanks to the SP, thanks to me, this has been incorporated into the Referendum Act, a referendum is now being announced and signatures are being collected to enable a referendum. However, this did not happen because of D66, but despite D66. So D66 shows off other people's feathers, and that's okay. They're beautiful feathers. But I would like to add a relative remark.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u38	Together with the PvdA and GroenLinks, we have tabled a legislative proposal for an advisory referendum. That bill was passed by both the Lower House and the Upper House. This can be used since July. We want to move on. We believe that it should even be a binding corrective referendum. If the SP supports us in that, you really have an emergency brake.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u39	Now it's really gonna be the last time, Mr Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u40	Of course I support that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u41	Great!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u42	That's what I've always said. But because Mrs Koşer Kaya was talking about secret agendas that seem to be there, I don't have a secret agenda; you can't write anything into that either. I wonder what was once the secret agenda of D66 to make a referendum law in which you could hold referendums on anything except the European Constitution. In the explanatory memorandum to that law, the European Constitution of 2005 was first given high priority, but it was subsequently not incorporated into the law at all. So I don't have a secret agenda. What is Mrs Koşer Kaya's secret agenda?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u43	I didn't mention a secret agenda. The SP has always been very clear about what it thinks of Europe. So I would say, if the shoe fits, put it on. As far as the referendum is concerned, I have already said what I had to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u44	I suggest Mrs Koşer Kaya finish her story now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u45	I come to the strengthened majority that the initiator wants for the accession of new Member States. I do not see the constitutional aspect of this and therefore I do not see why it should be in this law. My colleague, Mr Pechtold, therefore tabled an amendment in 2007 to remove that part of the proposal. In view of the remarks made by the initiator, his proposal also seems to be based on discontent with the European Union, its democratic content, the Union's distance from its inhabitants and the lack of transparency and accountability about what our rulers are doing. I share that dissatisfaction with him, but we do not make the European Union more democratic by amending our Constitution. No way. How? By making the European Parliament a real parliament, by ensuring real public access to the Council, the Commission and all those working groups around it, by sending our directors with a better mandate to the negotiating table and, above all, by not always making a different sound in the Netherlands and in Europe. In the latter coalition parties VVD and PvdA have meanwhile become very good. Couldn't we even do something about that? That is my question to the initiator and Minister Plasterk.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u46	I see you want to interrupt, Mr Taverne, but I suggest that Mrs Koşer Kaya finish her story first. Then you may interrupt, because otherwise the pace of this debate will be very low. How many minutes do you have, Mrs. Koşer Kaya?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u47	I come to my conclusion. I'm running out of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u48	You're running out of time. Then we'll do the interruptions afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u49	In conclusion, we still have a long way to go in making the European Union more democratic and involving the electorate in European decisions. My group, here and in the European Parliament, is committed to this, but this proposal does not contribute to this. For two months now, the Dutch electorate has also had a new means of calling Parliament to account: the consultative referendum. That is a much more powerful means than 25 MPs and 12 extra MPs who have to raise their hands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u50	I walked to the interrupting microphone because for a moment I suspected that I had gotten into the wrong debate. We are talking here about Mr Van der Staaij's proposal to anchor and improve the democratic legitimacy of the transfer of powers to the European Union rather than about the functioning of the European Union itself. I'm assuming this is still the case. Moreover, this is not a question of referenda, which we have just discussed in sufficient detail, especially if they come from a party which only wants to send referendums to the population dosed. Can I assume that Mrs Koşer Kaya also realises that this is a proposal to strengthen the democratic legitimacy of the transfer of powers to the European Union and that it is not intended to change anything in the way the European Union works?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u51	I will not lecture on what forms of referenda exist, but what D66 has always argued is that people should have the possibility of having an emergency brake afterwards, to say that we have done something wrong. We would prefer to see this regularly in a binding corrective referendum, so that the decision can be taken regardless of what the content may mean to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u52	Well, then you have come to the end of your speech. I call Mr Van Raak of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u53	Mr. Chairman. What a beautiful proposal this is! That is what I said in May 2009 when we started this debate. Then I said, the longer you look at this proposal, the more sympathetic and beautiful it gets. This proposal has above all the beauty of simplicity. In May 2009 I hung it over my bed, looked at it every day and wondered about the beauty of the proposal. I thought this couldn't be better. But I was wrong, because in May 2014 an amendment was tabled by the author and it turned out that the proposal could be even more beautiful. I'm very excited. Why am I excited? Because Mr Van der Staaij is making sure that we put things in order constitutionally. If we change the rules of politics in our Constitution, we can only do so by a two-thirds majority. There is a logic behind this: if you change the rules of the game, you have to get a part of the opposition with it. You don't need a hundred percent, because then you'll never be able to change anything again. Those rules apply to the Constitution, but not to European treaties. It is possible to decide by a two-thirds majority, but this requires a simple majority. If a simple majority has to decide whether to make a two-thirds majority decision, it is in fact a simple majority decision. Mr Van der Staaij is trying to fix this and to ensure that the rules of the game become clear, sound and clear. I think that is a very nice initiative. I would like to thank him very much for spending so much time on this important subject. Will this save democracy in Europe? I don't know. In any case, it ensures that when it comes to the transfer of sovereignty and the rules of politics, we take Europe seriously and make the same demands as changing the rules of the game in our country. When it comes to the establishment of our democracy, Europe is sometimes forgotten. I have already mentioned the example in the debate with Mrs Koşer Kaya: when a referendum law was proposed here by D66, GroenLinks and PvdA, the European referendum of 2005 was given high priority, but then the possibility of holding a referendum on Europe was not included in the law, and it was made possible when I myself pointed this out on behalf of the SP and said that it was necessary to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u54	I would like to correct that. In addition, I put on the initiator's hat. From the outset, unlike Mr Van Raak says, Europe has indeed been included in the legislative initiative proposal. I am glad that we agree that it is very important, but that the SP added it later does not seem to me to be entirely in line with the history of the initiative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u55	First, I was assured by the initiators that referendums on treaties from Europe were not possible. I was behind the initiators back then. Afterwards it turned out that it was possible because of a different interpretation. That seems to me to be a very important gain. That's what I want to end up with. The SP strongly supports this proposal. It ensures that we have done our homework and have our rules in order, even when it comes to the transfer of sovereignty and, above all, the restoration of sovereignty. But, of course, the citizens always have the opportunity to speak out. Signatures are now being collected for a referendum on a European treaty. I hope a lot of people sign that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u56	Mr. Chairman. I think we should organise a parliamentary survey to find out exactly what happened to the initiative proposal last time, before we spend too much time on it. It is always nice to discuss legislative proposals and proposals for constitutional changes, especially if they last longer. Then you look at the papers of the past and you see all those names again from those colleagues who are no longer members of the House of Representatives, such as Mr Kalma, Mr Schinkelshoek and Mr Anker, who spoke in 2009. This is a unique fact because we are now even dealing with something that still comes from, among other things, a party that is no longer among us: the LPF. Mr Herben is one of the spiritual fathers of this. I think this is an excellent bill. In the 2009 debate that we are perhaps going to do a little bit again today, a number of speakers, including Mr Van Raak, made the following point. I quote Mr Van Raak: 'If we demand a two-thirds majority for a revision of the Constitution, then we must also make this demand to the European treaties which affect our constitutional order.' I think that is the whole point, including Mr Van der Staaij's argument. I think this proposal marks the position of the Chamber again. Mr Van der Staaij was quoted yesterday in the Reformatorisch Dagblad as follows: "There is hardly any subject or Brussels is dealing with it." That sounds like an understatement to me. In 2005 there was a referendum, and my party was not even a party at the time, one of the engines behind it. Our slogan was: "The Netherlands must stay." In the end, we lost that. The Netherlands still exists in the Bosatlas, but as an independent state hardly exists. We have a lot of powers that make a country a country and a state a state, transferred to a state without a nation and a state without a citizen called the EU. The Netherlands has essentially been abolished. It is nice that we are still here together, but we often talk about the details. We have given away many things with regard to our economy, macro-economics, foreign policy, defence and the question of who we let in and who we do not. This is, of course, contrary to what the Netherlands is meant for, namely a sovereign nation and a State of the Netherlands that belongs to the citizens. All this has been given away and handed over to Brussels. We now have 26 seats in a Parliament of 751 seats and we are dealing with the European Commission. Mr Juncker spoke today in Brussels, but no one has ever spoken to Mr Juncker. Yesterday, we saw Mr Timmermans on the state service, but no one has ever spoken to Mr Timmermans. The EU has no common language or culture. In some parts of Europe, there is a very different view of corruption, abortion or immigration. However, we must all agree on a common position. It often runs counter to what we want in the Netherlands. Greece is suddenly our problem and Germany's second world war trauma has also become our problem. I expect that this initiative proposal can counter a further decline in our national sovereignty and raise a higher threshold against giving away things that should be dear to us. Mr Van der Ham, he is one of the colleagues who is no longer among us, at least in a parliamentary sense but fortunately still in a physical sense, said in 2009: "In addition, I think it is very important that we come up with majorities to appreciate European proposals and that, if he feels called to do so, citizens can express their views on them at the end of the process by means of a referendum." Those are very correct words. This is now happening because of the NoPeil action. My party has been enthusiastic about that. It would be very good if many people were to sign this; 150,000 signatures have now been collected, but 300,000 are needed. There are three weeks left and the seconds are ticking away. I call on anyone who follows this through the modern media to go to sign.no level.nl to ensure that we can make a referendum on the new developments in relation to the EU. I wish the initiators, of whom there is only one, namely Mr Van der Staaij, every success in perfecting and bringing this proposal to a successful conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u57	Mr. Chairman. I will begin with a compliment to the initiator for this elaborate piece of work. I hope that the Chamber will give a broad support to this; the proposal deserves it. Mr Van der Staaij has not gone ice in one night. If there is anyone in this Chamber who upholds the value of the Constitution, it is him. Of course, in addition to the Minister for the Interior, who is supposed to do so also as an official, except intrinsically, of course. If Mr Van der Staaij is therefore proposing to amend this fundamental law, it must be a serious proposal. Much has changed since the debate on this bill six years ago. Europe has become much more visible; the major problems in Greece show this. At the same time, and rightly so, the criticism of Europe has also become much greater. Ever since I've been in the Chamber, I've been keeping a record of all kinds of European shit, as I call it. This varies from fundamental degradation of democratic values according to Dutch awareness through measures reminiscent of an incredibly meddling aunt who interferes with the household of nephews and cousins, to the troll patrol that has orders to monitor, influence and counteract anti-European sounds on social media. These are just a few examples. It continues to expand, still. The criticism of Europe has, therefore, gradually increased, and rightly so. Six years ago, not all Members of Parliament were accustomed to a critical approach to Europe. If I am not mistaken, this Chamber has also become more aware since then that Europe has gained too much control over the Member States. That grip of Europe should not be strengthened. The control of the Member States must be restored as much as possible, and this must be increased. The demand for two-thirds majority in both Parliament's Chambers means that we need to look more carefully at the extension of European power. Then that becomes obvious, instead of being a decision of the majority of the Chamber. Transfer of powers to Europe may be necessary, but only in so far as this is not possible. This is at the heart of the principle of subsidiarity, which should be given even more emphasis. Only if the Member States cannot solve something themselves will there be a task for Europe. An important point is that this proposal corrects an omission in the Constitution. So far, the European Union has been lacking, whereas the influence on the Netherlands is very strong. Another point is the thorough report of the State Constitutional Commission of 2010. The majority of the committee considers that this proposal needs to be strengthened. The question of which criterion is best is looked at slightly differently, but our impression is that the proposer has made a logical choice. It is simple, effective and it strengthens parliamentary involvement. It is wise for Mr Van der Staaij to have modified the proposal somewhat; it would be illogical to demand a two-thirds majority for the return of powers to the Member States. Has Mr Van der Staaij considered making an even lighter demand in these cases? The State Commission reports that in many countries of the European Union a special procedure has been laid down for treaties conferring powers on international organisations or on treaties affecting the European Union. A special majority is required. This is not only the case with treaties that differ from the Constitution, as is already the case in the Netherlands. It is also the case with all the treaties conferring powers on Europe. The SGP therefore asks the initiator whether his proposal for the Constitution is now more in line with other European constitutions. How does he look at that? Is the Netherlands no longer the slave next boy who dared not say no in time? Or does the author consider that this is actually even more necessary? Does the author have the impression that our Parliament, in the light of other parliaments, is looking critically at Europe? Or does he see possibilities for a more realistic vision? I'll come to a conclusion. Six years ago, the then SGP chamber member Van der Vlies said in the debate that we were considering supporting this proposal. We have become more and more convinced of the need and the desirability of aid. It is an important strengthening of Parliament's involvement in the transfer of powers to Europe. I will therefore propose to my group to support the proposal wholeheartedly. I suspect I can obtain a majority within our group for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u58	Mr. Chairman. If the pace of Treaty changes is similar to the progress of this initiative proposal, little would have changed in the international relationship between the Netherlands and the rest of the world. With this pace as an example, there is no need for a constitutional change. However, we appreciate the perseverance of the initiator of this proposal and the discussion we are having here. The Constitution is the basis for our rule of law and, in our view, should not be changed lightly. The Free Party is a state of law, and that is why we are firmly taking part in the debate on this initiative by Mr Van der Staaij to amend the Constitution on the issue of the standard qualified majority for the adoption of a European Treaty. However, we do not believe that changing the Constitution is a solution to the underlying problem. The problem facing us and other Member States is that more and more powers are being transferred to Europe. This problem needs to be tackled much more at its core. Europe should also be on the agenda of the Dutch Presidency of the European Union as from next year. How does the Minister see this? Instead of tinkering with the Constitution, it seems much better for my group to look at the democratic organisation of Europe. Does the author of this bill really believe that amending the Constitution is the only way to gain more control over our own sovereignty, and in particular to recognise the position of the European legal order? The German philosopher Jürgen Habermas has already recognised that the sovereignty of the Member States is in danger and came up with the rather liberal idea of shared sovereignty. The core of this idea is the separation of the sovereign and the legislator. Normally the sovereign is precisely defined as a legislator, but Habermas separates it. To shape this idea, one might think of a European two-chamber system, in which the European people are represented in a first parliament and the sovereign Member States in a second parliament. Together they will give effect to the legislative power delegated by the sovereign Member States. I think we need to look much more at solutions to be ahead of decisions than we choose to change our own Constitution, with regard to something that can be influenced in advance. Treaties can act directly in the national legal order, so this constitutional change is not necessary. Can the author also explain why this is so constructed at all? With the drafting of the Constitution, we have made a direct choice and, of course, the articulation of the constitutional modularity of Treaty changes has already been achieved. In fact, this constitutional amendment focuses on the end of the European legislative circus, whereas we need to intervene much more at the beginning of it. As a Chamber, we also give the government the mandate at the beginning for the way in which the negotiations are to be conducted. The adoption of this mandate, when we say what points the cabinet should take in the event of a treaty amendment or the drawing up of a treaty, will always take place by a simple majority. European legislation then starts with the Commission's proposals, which then go to the Council and the EP. By having closer contact with our people in Brussels, this can take shape. In 2005, a report was issued on mixed management in EU matters, which shows that action is always taking place in the final phase, whereas it is much better to do so at the beginning. That has been improved in this Parliament by the BNC chips. The whole system of early orientation and strategic direction is much more important. In this context, the development of national parliaments, which exercise their influence through the yellow and red cards they are allowed to distribute, can also be highlighted. National parliaments can respond to the proposals and treaties. Apparently, no action is being taken to influence European decision-making in the preliminary stage, because otherwise we would not have to provide for the requirement of a two-thirds majority with some kind of emergency brake after the event, if only because of the existing practice. That is a rather curious reasoning. I would like to receive a response from the initiator. Wouldn't this bill have much more value than it aims to have if more action were taken with the MEPs, with our Brussels/Strasbourg counterparts? I do not want Strasbourg either, but that is another discussion. Does the author not ignore the whole proposal of yellow and red cards? Moreover, there is now a strong framework for EU treaties. More and more work is being done on its implementation, rather than amending the Treaties. We need to look much more closely at the implementation, and we need to monitor sovereignty. The Treaty of Lisbon also gives Parliaments a formal role in the European legislative process through the subsidiarity test. Until March 2015, the government took 23 subsidiarity tests and placed 41 treatment reservations; an evaluation of this was also carried out. At present 28 priorities selected by the Chamber and 3 treatment proposals have been subject to reservations. This is real. Is this guarantee not enough to prevent a constitutional change from taking place as it stands? It's about legislation. It is important to see how an additional milestone can be achieved in the 12th presidency of the Netherlands. How can extra influence be exerted at the beginning? An idea is to work on a kind of Dutch lobby office at the beginning of the journey to guarantee our own sovereignty at European level. How does the Minister view such a lobby office alongside his own lobby activities? I have a few more questions for the initiator about recognising the position of the European legal order. It is also about improving the democratic legitimacy of the EU Member States by strengthening the position of national parliaments. Does the petitioner believe that you should focus on this and not so much on a constitutional change? Raising an approval threshold is likely to send a negative signal to the EU and other Member States. What signal do we send at all if we decide to achieve a higher approval threshold, while we have already made choices in the lead-up by a majority in order to achieve the proposed changes or treaties? Does the author not think that the referendum gives this a much better position and that we should embrace that instrument, certainly from my perspective, with a view to the democratic legitimacy of the proposals and the democratic embedding of European proposals in Dutch society? Moreover, does the applicant consider that the amendment of the Constitution is the only way to exercise more competence in the EU from the idea that the requirement of a two-thirds majority in the Netherlands should be seen as a kind of sword of Damocles? That is not realistic at all. In short, we still have a lot of questions. As can be seen from my question, an amendment to the Constitution on this point does not seem logical or desirable and thus ignores the practice of the preparatory process. It is precisely a question of strengthening the preparatory process, based on a simple majority. The Chamber is already taking great care in this respect. I hope she will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u59	Mr. Chairman. "Good wine needs time." That's a nice expression. Let me make it clear that this is a good wine. This is a good wine, because it's about something. It is about our Constitution. It is valuable to regularly look at our Constitution and discuss whether we have correctly completed it or not. But let me go through that illustration. It doesn't mean that every good wine is also a wine that we have to buy. After all, it is also about the aftertaste. That is the dilemma we have. We need to think about the importance of this bill and whether we really need to take this step. I can go through the illustration. If you let good wine rest first and then take a sip, it is usually not to drink at first. There were aspects of this proposal that we really thought were: no, that's not good. That is what the initiator himself experienced. He finally made a change, which made the bill much better. Eventually, you'll see where we've come from. I think this phase is the phase of the aftertaste analysis. What's the deal with this precious wine? Is this precious wine perhaps too expensive? Maybe the wine costs too much? Is the wine too heavy? That's the question we need to ask. We see some very important advantages in this bill. It could be an answer to the major concerns that exist about the transfer of powers to Europe. Are we, as a parliament, still in control of our country or has everything been transferred to Europe? Or isn't that the case? The people in the street usually say: we don't go about our own business anymore. So it could be an answer to that feeling. I must also say that since 2006/2007 there have been moments in the CDA Group where we thought: is that what Europe is about? Even though we see Europe as a very important institution that we ourselves are part of and that many of the problems for which we cannot really come up with the solution can solve for us, the feeling that sometimes there are times when Europe seems to be taking up too much space, there is indeed. The other point is the democratic legitimacy that we often have doubts about in Europe. If you look at the European Parliament, is the way in which the government takes certain decisions in Europe sufficiently democratically legitimized? How do we make that battle as a parliament? But there are also great hesitations and doubts about this law. To put it bluntly, will it close any decision in Europe? In the end, can we still do the things that may sometimes be necessary from within Europe?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u60	I think it is very interesting to talk about the functioning of European democracy, but I would ask Mrs Van Toorenburg not to make this fantastic bill, which I have just praised, too big. This bill is not intended to save European democracy. This proposal is actually very simple to solve a constitutional problem, namely that if we want to change the political rules of the Constitution in our country, we need a two-thirds majority for that and that if decisions are taken in Europe that also affect the political rules of the game in the Netherlands, then it is logical to ask for a two-thirds majority for that too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u61	I'd like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u62	Is there not much more late constitutional maintenance here than a proposal to save democracy in Europe?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u63	I can get on that right away. It breaks through a bit of my story about advantages and disadvantages, but we have to bring that dynamic to bear. The question is whether this solves a constitutional problem, because then I really should see what the big problem here is. Maybe I can take my example after all. We are on the eve of very important decisions in Europe because there is a tragedy at the borders of Europe. Large streams of refugees are coming to us. We have a flawed answer to that because we do not have the solution. What if the European countries say to each other: we are going to make some kind of treaty to distribute these refugees in a good way? Then I find it horrible to have to say that I do not think that such a treaty will get through this before the elections, but it will after the elections. I fear that sometimes within Europe, because we are a frog country, you will have to make very important decisions, but that will no longer be possible. That is the hesitation I have, so that is also my question to the initiator and to the cabinet. Is this really just a codification of what we are already doing, as the VVD Group has just said? Then I'd really like to see the monster in the mouth together to see what we're gonna mess up. Is it possible, at a time when we are facing really great challenges, that this wine will eventually be too heavy on the stomach?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u64	At the heart of the proposal is that European treaties, European proposals, a simple majority in the Chamber should decide whether to vote by a two-thirds majority. The problem is so small and in every parliament in the world it is weird. It is strange to leave a decision whether or not you approve something by two thirds of a majority to a simple majority because you actually decide by that simple majority. In my view, that is at the heart of this proposal and nothing more. We must come up with good plans and solutions about refugees. That is one of many examples because I believe that we need to save democracy in Europe. That is another discussion, which I would very much like to have with Mrs Van Toorenburg, but I think that if we link this discussion to the proposal, we will not do justice to both democracy in Europe and the proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u65	I do not want to have all kinds of discussions about this. Nor do I want us to have another discussion here about referenda and so on. I just want to stick to the proposal before us. I'm seriously asking if it's nothing more than a codification. The sound colour of Mr Van Raak is right. The question of when a two-thirds majority is about and when it is not, of course, is a matter of discussion, but there are a number of times when you can prove it. What's the deal with that? That is a fair question to both the cabinet and the petitioner. Can we ride around this through the somewhat flawed democratic process of Article 91 of the Constitution? Is it therefore perhaps necessary to do so? That's why I'm saying this is a total aftertaste. I will look at each group's views on this. Next time we will see whether we are in favour or against the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u66	As a VVDer, I don't just respond to any comparison with wine. I would also like to be service-oriented in connection with the debate between Mrs Van Toorenburg and Mr Van Raak. Does Mrs Van Toorenburg agree with me that there may not be a major problem in some proposals and that this will solve it? As I said in my speech, this is about recording what is already happening in practice. That's the good news. We have not done anything at all in the case of important EU treaties which now makes it necessary to intervene. However, provisions in the Constitution need to last a little longer. They must also be focused on the future and act as a guarantee, in case, in practice, there may not be such a sensible action later on. Does Mrs Van Toorenburg agree with me that this is about the treaties underlying the EU, at least if I understand the initiator correctly? I am referring to the Treaty on European Union, the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the European instruments which concern the foundations of the European Union and so on. It is not, therefore, a question of arbitrary decisions at EU level. Perhaps this reassures Mrs Van Toorenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u67	Indeed, not every European decision will be passed by this bar. I know Mr. Taverne is very fond of America. I'm very fond of England. In America changes are accepted quite quickly, but an Englishman always says: if it ain't broken, don't fix it. In line with this, you can say that you only want to make a big change when you really see that you run into something. If there is no major problem, then I want us to look at the monster in the mouth again here, since it is about the Constitution. Then I want us to ask ourselves, what are we getting over ourselves? There may come a time when we are almost reluctant to do so, even though we realize that we need to do something. Then we might think: it's better, but a two-thirds majority will never make it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u68	Mrs Van Toorenburg is right to say that I am a great fan of the United States. I'm also a big fan of the UK. The difference is that the UK does not have a constitution and the United States does.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u69	That's because England has laws that still apply for a long time. That's special indeed. It remains that I seriously think that if you go over such a bridge, you must know very clearly what the great added value of that is. If we have to find out that it has never gone wrong, then I want to know when it can go wrong. When are we going to paralyze Europe because we have to make a decision in which we have hesitations? The point of accession has rightly been mentioned. How far does accession treaties go? Are you all right with a two-thirds majority? I would have liked it to be so at the time of Greece's accession, because Greece would not have been able to join. We would have had a lot less debates and a lot less misery. In that case, we would have thought it might have been wise for it to have applied, but I would like to see the example worked out by the author. I'll come to a conclusion. We would like to reassure the author on our points. We continue to doubt whether the major step we are taking is justified, given the uncertainties and challenges we are currently facing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u70	Mr. Chairman. Firstly, I would like to express my appreciation for Mr Van der Staaij's initiative proposal. It is always perseverance and courage to place a subject on the agenda as an individual MP. I come to the heart of this argument. We were against this bill in 2009 and we are against it. The arguments for the bill did not convince us at the time. Those arguments have remained unchanged. The letter of amendment does not add anything that meets our previous concerns. I am not going to repeat these objections in detail today. The proposal for an initiative has already been dealt with in detail by this Chamber in the first and second periods. My predecessor, Mr Kalma, spoke very well of the objections. At the heart of our objection is that we believe that Parliament's involvement should take place mainly during the journey and not only afterwards. As far as we are concerned, the priority must be elsewhere. In addition, thanks to another initiative law, my colleague from D66 has also said something about it, in which the PvdA was one of the initiators, we have already built in an additional test before laws can enter into force. I am referring to the consultative referendum that can be used since July 2015. Finally, Article 91 (3) of the Constitution provides for an increased procedure. This has been the subject of discussion before, but there is still disagreement over the increased procedure. We are therefore wondering whether we should look again at this increased procedure. Occasionally, you may wonder whether that is perhaps a dead letter in our Constitution. We need to look at this so that this procedure can be applied more frequently. I would like a response from the initiator and from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u71	I would like to thank Mrs Fokke very much for the proposal for a referendum law. Much has happened in that area, but I want to take the PvdA to the heart of the problem now. I believe that the substance of the proposal is less revolutionary than Mrs Fokke suggests. If we now decide to adopt European rules, European treaties by two thirds, a simple majority will decide on them. Mrs Fokke herself referred to the Constitution. Perhaps we should look at that again, but that is exactly what Mr Van der Staaij has done. He has looked at it and has come up with a proposal to clarify it, to clarify the rules of the game in politics, even when it comes to Europe. Why is the PvdA opposed to this proposal, which actually only repairs something that's a little rattling?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u72	Our starting point is not the same. I do not think that this initiative proposal is going to fix anything. We've had a three-stage missile since July 1st. There's good business in that. Influence must be exercised in advance and not afterwards. That is the first reason why we do not consider this initiative legislative proposal to be sensible. Furthermore, there is now an advisory referendum, but this is not binding. In this sense, a bit of bad luck has been mentioned today, but the corrective referendum is still ahead. I call on the Chamber to take the lead in that regard. The third argument is that, even if Article 91 (3) has been in the Constitution for a long time, we are all never able to come up with exactly what we want with that article. State committees don't come out either. If you look at the legal history, you can see that the article has hardly ever been used. That's where the challenge lies, isn't it? If you add this up, the PvdA sees no need to support this initiative proposal. So neither do we.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u73	You have the full support for the corrective referendum, but it is also a bit about logic, the constitutional logic that a simple majority in the Chamber decides whether to vote by a two-thirds majority. Mrs Fokke cannot deny that that actually means that a simple majority is needed? That problem is trying to solve Mr Van der Staaij, and I think that is a charming solution. I really don't understand why Mrs Fokke wants to insist that a simple majority should decide to vote by two-thirds majority, which means that that two-thirds majority is always determined by a simple majority.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u74	I wouldn't mind repeating myself. Mr Van Raak takes one thing out of it. I understand that, because we always do that in debates. We always get something out of it that happens to suit us. I'm just saying the force lies in the three-stage missile. You don't exercise influence afterwards, you do it in advance. That is why we say that it must be done at an earlier date. That is one reason why we do not consider this initiative proposal to be a very good one. The second is that we have had the consultative referendum since 1 July. Mr Van Raak is very proud of that. He made an attempt to ride his own bike, so that things would still get a bit on his mind. That was a nice try, but not entirely true. And now we have the third argument that we already have Article 91 (3) of the Constitution. Mr Van Raak zooms in on that, but as far as I am concerned, all three belong together. Look at Rule 91, third paragraph. If you add those three together, we'll think you've insured everything. In that case, we do not consider this legislative initiative to be necessary. Mr Van Raak and I differ on that. I don't think you should add any more tools to the toolbox if it's done properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u75	Thank you. Then we arrived at the end of the third term on the part of the Chamber. The initiator has indicated that he can reply immediately, so I would like to give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u76	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Members of Parliament for their input into this third term, indeed in a long legislative process. The own-initiative proposal was already submitted in 2006. Mr Herben of the LPF Group took the lead in this. He suspected that the SGP Group might be represented longer in this Chamber than the LPF Group. That turned out to be a fair assessment. That is why I was the sole initiator of this. I was delighted to do so, because the legislative proposal provides an answer to the issue raised so prominently in 2005 in the referendum on the draft European Constitution. There were strong objections among the Dutch people, who were then not sufficiently recognised in the parliamentary process. At the time, Mr Herben and I did not think the same thing about the need and desirability of a referendum. The LPF Group was in favour of this, the SGP Group was and is not. However, this also shows that the appreciation of this bill and the constitutional rule of the game set out in this proposal are in fact independent of the way you look at a referendum. It is about whether you want to achieve a strengthened majority within our representative system for treaties that have a major impact on the Dutch legal order. Then why did it take us so long to get the finish line in sight here? A further letter of amendment has been drawn up which has also been subject to a separate procedure. That letter of amendment saw that the return of powers from the European Union to the Netherlands or to other EU Member States would no longer require a two-thirds majority. Among other things, the VVD Group had made a point of this, but also the PVV Group. So we've changed the bill on that point. That's actually the new thing compared to the treatment in 2009. The second reason we are talking about it now is that it was said at the time: let us also wait and see how the Constitutional Commission is going to judge this; let us ask the State Commission to look at this section as well. Well, that's what happened. The State Commission is not in all respects unanimous on how this problem should be addressed, but I would like to repeat these words in a majority because I wholeheartedly support it. It is desirable to amend the Constitution in order to ensure that important treaties can count on broad parliamentary democratic legitimacy for our country and the constitutional system. That is the core issue here, including as far as I am concerned. I think it would be a good idea to state now that we are not talking about all kinds of other questions, such as: should Europe be given more powers in the future, yes or no? That is an interesting debate and we all take political positions in it, but no matter how we think about it, I think we should be able to agree on what is a fair rule of the game. A rule of play in the sense of: what parliamentary support is needed? That is also the intention of this bill. That is why, as initiator, I want to stay away from the question of how to proceed in these areas. In fact, I still believe that all parties could be in favour of this bill, because it seeks to make the rules of the game fairer and clearer. I would like to address a number of questions from different spokesmen and resist the temptation to do the debate all over again. After all, it was carried out in detail in 2009. I would now like to focus on the questions that have been raised. D66 indicated in Mrs Koşer Kaya's person that nothing really changes. I believe, however, that the interruption debates have already highlighted the fact that a different standard is being introduced into the Constitution. According to the Constitution, a European Treaty amendment now requires a simple majority. The new will really be that there will be a need for a strengthened majority. Whether or not that actually leads to change ultimately leads to speculation. Mrs Van Toorenburg asked: will Europe not be locked up, will it not be more difficult in the future? My reaction to this is: that is the question of how it will develop. That's speculation in the end. In my opinion, the key question of this debate is much earlier: what is fair, what is right? In view of the system of the Constitution and looking at the practice of all kinds of other countries in Europe, look at Germany, Italy, Greece, Austria and the countries that we can list even more who know weighted procedures for European Treaty changes. So yes, there will certainly be changes in the norm. Whether that is actually a reason for a changed situation is speculation. We have to wait and see. In any case, it is a good thing that the bar is set higher, given the impact on the national legal order, and that the Netherlands will have to do even more both within the parliament and outside Europe to ensure that Dutch interests are protected as best as possible, because there is broad democratic support in our country. It is therefore essentially a question of strengthening the position of Parliament, recognising the reality of the European legal order and of fair constitutional rules of the game. In relation to the point of the referendum, I have already indicated that, in my opinion, this is not really related to the appreciation of these constitutional rules of the game. That is what I wanted to say in response to Mrs Koşer Kaya's questions. I am very grateful for the support of the VVD Group, through Mr Taverne.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u77	The State Committee concludes that the Chamber should make more targeted use of the instruments it already has, indicating that, if you use them in a targeted manner, the problem does not arise either.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u78	It is true that the State Commission is not satisfied with the way in which Article 91, third paragraph of the Constitution is now being implemented. At the same time, the majority of the State Commission states that a constitutional change is necessary. I have already indicated this by saying that this ensures that important treaties can count on broad democratic legitimacy. There are then different views on how to do that, but the majority of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities has said: a constitutional change is desirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u79	The how is indeed important. The State Commission has responded to this: Chamber, make more targeted use of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u80	That's part of the story: Room, make more targeted use of that provision we already have. Mrs Fokke said that a constitutional change is a long-term issue. Wouldn't it be worth doing something about that already? The answer is yes, but a chamber motion has already been adopted which states: we have a problem. In all European treaties, from Maastricht to Nice and Amsterdam, we said that application of Article 91 (3) was not necessary, since there was no derogation from the Constitution. We have followed a very scary interpretation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u81	In the 2009 debate, it appeared that the Chamber found itself in a majority: it is actually a good thing that a broader explanation is given. That is what I thought at the time was the profit of the debate. However, the fact that Mrs Fokke now repeats that question is, frankly, a source of concern for me as to whether this is sufficiently guaranteed. It was then expressed as Parliament's opinion, recorded in a motion, but it could also just sink away, because it is not anchored in the letter of the Constitution and can give rise to much discussion again. In my opinion, that does not solve the problem. So yes, it is evidently widely shared that there is now a problem, as there has been too little application of Article 91, third paragraph, particularly with regard to European treaties. Is it really a beckoning perspective that we say: although it has not been a practice so far, will we give a broader explanation in the future in the Second and First Chambers? On the basis of what has happened so far, I honestly do not have sufficient confidence that this will actually be the case. If we acknowledge that we have a problem, why don't we settle it nicely right away?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u82	Mr Van der Staaij brings it back to a discussion on standards: if there is to be a large majority, is that a simple majority of 50% plus 1%, or is that a qualified two-thirds majority? The reason for this is: yes, the latter would be a parliamentary strengthening. Does Mr Van der Staaij, the initiator, consider that the current system, which is based on 50% plus 1%, does not lead to proper parliamentary decision-making? So are we actually wrong about our system that is based on a normal majority?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u83	It's not about whether you think the final score is right or wrong. It is not a question of who wins the game, but of whether that is a fair rule of the game. In view of the far-reaching measures which European treaties contain for the Dutch legal order, the system of the Constitution contains a qualified majority. Some countries even have a system of two readings or the same procedure as in the case of constitutional changes. Frankly, I think that a qualified majority, the demand of a two-thirds majority, is the minimum you can expect in a decision-making process in a parliament. As Mr Jurgens once pointed out in the First Chamber, is it strange that even in the case of a minor amendment to the Constitution, for example: is the mayor the head of the city council or not? Two readings are needed with two-thirds majority, while a European treaty which will remove our Dutch guilder in exchange for the euro will suffice for a simple majority in a single reading. That's not a fair constitutional rule of the game, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u84	So the debate is not about parliamentary reinforcement but about the assessment of which proposals need a simple majority and which one needs a qualified majority. European affairs - that is a political judgement - should, in your opinion, have a qualified majority. That is a political debate and not a standard discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u85	I do not see this as a political discussion, I see it as a state-law principle. For treaties that have a huge impact on the Dutch legal order, a strengthened majority is necessary, a broad parliamentary democratic basis, whatever you think about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u86	Both the author and the opponents of this initiative proposal quote from the report of the Constitutional Commission. I ask the author who selects the most selectively, the author or the opponents of this initiative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u87	I did not know Mr Bishop could ask such difficult questions. It's never so neat to blame others for selective shopping and to say to yourself that you've tried to express the most core passages in the state committee's report. Let me actually keep it more. In any case, I think it is very important that the majority of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities has indicated: yes, we see a problem and yes, we believe that this requires a constitutional change.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u88	I had hoped for this answer. Indeed, as Mrs Koşer Kaya points out, the legislative proposal states: increase the operation of Article 91 (3). It follows: a majority of the State Committee believes that there is a reason to go further and considers that a constitutional change is desirable. This is entirely in line with the aim of the applicant. Is that a correct conclusion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u89	That's correct. Unanimous: yes, there is a problem and it has to be different. A majority: a constitutional change is the best route.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u90	The author indicated: treaties concerning the Dutch legal order, not the Dutch Constitution. In fact, he says that it is a political debate and not so much that there would be no solution to treaties affecting the Constitution. In fact, treaties from Europe that touch the Constitution also require a two-thirds majority. My question is another one. If you have any doubts or questions, you can also ask the Minister: can you advise us, does this affect the Constitution or not, and if so, should there be a two-thirds majority in the Chamber? Then you solved the problem, didn't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u91	Mrs Koser Kaya actually comes back to the question of whether it is better to agree on whether a two-thirds majority is needed on the basis of the argument of conflict with the Constitution. I have indicated that it is true that you can give a narrow and broad explanation of this and that until now the government has always chosen the narrow explanation, which has never really been said about a European treaty: according to the letter of the Constitution there is a derogation, so a two-thirds majority is needed. However, there can also be a broad explanation. That would be good. A motion has also been adopted on this. But it is still an interpretation debate, because we continue to run into that problem. How come we've explained the different ones? This is because very often there is no conflict with the letter of the Constitution, but a major impact on our constitutional order. The position of the legislator, parliament and judge is greatly affected by European treaties. That's a problem we're gonna keep on having. Let me quote Mrs Van Toorenburg's example. What if there are now far-reaching European proposals and the admission to the Netherlands of foreigners is determined entirely by Europe and the Netherlands and the other Member States have nothing to say about it? That would be quite a far-reaching step. Would that require a two-thirds majority? You will then have a discussion about what is contained in Article 2 (2) of the Constitution. That article reads: "The law governs the admission and expulsion of foreigners." Well, that doesn't conflict with that. If that law states that it must comply with European rules, then it is not contrary to the Constitution. The same applies to the monetary system. You can easily say that it is not contrary to the letter of the Constitution, but that impact does. This is something you can accept by saying: let us look back on all the treaties on which the European Union is founded. With 27 countries, there is really no proposal to amend the treaties for every wipe-up. Then there is a lot going on and it very easily affects the position of the Dutch constitutional order. That is why it is right to ask for that two-thirds majority. That's not too much to ask, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u92	It was a very simple question, to which I received a very long answer. However, the essence remains that the question of whether it affects the Constitution can be put to the Minister. Mr Van der Staaij also says that this is not a question of the rule of law. I'm assuming that's what he's taking back. In case of doubt, the Chamber may ask the Minister whether it affects the Constitution. The Minister can answer that. It is obvious that there will then be a discussion about this, because we do so every day here. It is, however, a question of whether the confidence in the Chamber is high or not. That's the crux. In my opinion, Mr Van der Staaij is referring to the latter, while I am referring to the first, namely that we can have an adult debate on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u93	Those debates have taken place, but I maintain my point that Article 91 (3) of the Constitution requires, if you read it in the letter and take into account the narrow interpretation that is prevailing so far, provisions that differ from the Constitution or differ to such an extent, but that, as the State Commission points out, there may indeed be decisions, changes to the Treaties, which have a major impact on the national legal order, but are not contrary to the Constitution. Our Constitution contains many more substantive provisions, but they do not look at sovereignty, for example. That is why there is no rapid conflict with the Constitution on the transfer of sovereignty to Europe. For this reason, I would like to say that it is desirable to supplement the Constitution with provisions that explicitly refer to European treaties.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u94	We, as lawyers, have invented something very nice for that. You have the letter, but of course you also have the spirit of the Constitution. Could you not say that there is still some room in this article if, instead of relying strictly on the letter of the Constitution, you looked at the spirit of it a little more?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u95	I agree that there is room for interpretation of Article 91 (3) and that it would be a good thing if a narrow interpretation were to be brought to a more broad interpretation. But then there is still discussion, an interpretation debate, about the spirit and the letter. That is more complicated, more controversial and more sensitive to political coloring. Why are we gonna be difficult when it's easy? And easy doing is saying: we can assume that European treaty changes have a major impact on the Dutch legal order. Then it is in line with the system of the Dutch Constitution to use this increased majority requirement, then it is also in line with practice in other countries and then I would like to admit to Mr Van Raak that it is a modest step, not a revolutionary step, towards strengthening the position of Parliament and strengthening legal certainty, because it continues to suffer from the narrow or wide interpretation of existing Article 91, third paragraph. I was in the process of expressing my appreciation of Mr Taverne's contribution. I notice not only that sometimes the wine gets better by leaving it for a while, but also that it can help in the positive assessment of that wine in this case. The VVD Group, which had previously indicated that it was not quite clear what it was going to be, is now convinced of the desirability of this proposal. A majority for this proposal may thus be seen. This has been worth waiting for and discussing further. I continue to hope that this support will be broader. In my view, all the groups have good arguments to support this. We will also need them because, in the end, a two-thirds majority is needed to show the light of this constitutional change. But if I see the slow but nevertheless growing support for this bill over time, I am still confident. I thank Mr Van Raak for his contribution. I really appreciate this. He has surprised me in the eloquence of the compliments he has expressed on this bill. In his compliments, he has made it abundantly clear that, on the one hand, it is a modest contribution that we should not overvalue, but, on the other hand, we must recognise its usefulness, value and reasonableness. I like that. I would also like to thank Mr Bosma for his words of appreciation on behalf of the PVV Group. The SGP Group has been asked whether a lighter requirement has been envisaged when it comes to bringing powers back from Europe to the Member States, to the Netherlands. This is a nice example of a question that you might think of, if you would answer that politics: this is attractive, that's what I'm for. However, when I look at it purely constitutionally, I say that it is not reasonable to make a lighter demand. The normal course of events is a simple majority; in the case of legislative changes with a special impact, we demand a two-thirds majority and in the case of very special constitutional changes, we demand two readings. In this system, I think a simple majority is appropriate, but not an even lighter one. I confirm to Mr Bishop that we are more in line with many other countries that have strengthened procedures for European treaty changes. Not all countries have such a procedure and not all countries have regulated it in the same way, but many countries do have a heavier procedure. The examples are given in the explanatory memorandum and the note following the report. Are we critical enough towards Europe? I see this more as a political question which I would like to separate from the question of what purely constitutional rules are, what is at stake in this debate. Mr Klein raised the question of why we are now focusing entirely on the hand brake at the end and whether we should not look at how we can adjust on the way instead of taking action by a strengthened majority at the end. My answer would be: let's not play it against each other. I believe that it is important for treaty changes that have a major impact on the Dutch legal order to be early and to speak well about it as a parliament, so that it can be actively involved and influence it in the interim. In the final phase, too, we must make a fair rule of play applicable. It's not or-or, it's and-and. This is also the case in the Constitution's system in a number of other cases where treaties do lead to derogations from the Constitution. Article 92, which has not yet been mentioned, also states that "in the case of bodies governed by international law, powers may be conferred on bodies governed by international law". Then we don't say: you have to do that early and don't act at the end. The constitutional system is to ensure that the majority requirement imposed on it complies with the weight of that treaty or law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u96	That's my point. In the course you always have to deal with a simple majority in advance. If we, as a parliament, indicate in advance how we would like to see a treaty or to see it amended, we will have that discussion with the government, a simple majority applies. When we need a simple majority in the run-up to indicate what the wishes and insights of this Parliament are, I wonder why we need the qualified majority at the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u97	In the constitutional system it is reasonable to set that two-thirds majority requirement if there is a major impact on the Dutch legal order. That is the current practice, and I would like to join in that. I don't want to play this out in relation to "before" or "before being involved." That must be done, but that is not an alternative to this fair rule of the game at the end of the journey.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u98	If in the preliminary stage the fair rule of the game is a majority and only a majority can say that this has a major impact on the Dutch legal order, which is a political balance, then you can say: in that political balance I choose a simple majority in one case and in the other case for a two-thirds majority. That's the current system. It would be illogical, then, if all decisions were taken by simple majority and qualified majority was requested at the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u99	I do not agree with Mr Klein that the impact on the Dutch legal order is purely political. I would like to approach this as objectively and as constitutionally purely as possible. What are the consequences for the area of the Dutch legislator, the administration and the judiciary? If it is changed significantly, it is reasonable to apply that qualified majority. Mr Klein says that there is a simple majority in the preliminary draft, even in the case of motions and so on. That is true, but that two-thirds majority requirement at the end means that this simple majority must take account of the need for broad support at an early stage. This only promotes the sympathetic listening to objections voiced by other parties, those who are not needed for the simple majority, but for the two-thirds majority. I think that was at the heart of Mr Klein's question. Mrs Van Toorenburg has shown herself to be an eminent wine connoisseur. I'm not going to argue about that, but I'm having a bit of a problem with the fact that a good wine can have such a bad aftertaste. It's just not a good wine, but a bad wine that might look good. The same applies to the assessment of this bill. This is really good wine and it also has a good aftertaste, is my firm conviction. I could then say: good wine does not need a wreath, so I will leave it at that. However, I would not do enough justice to Mrs Van Toorenburg's substantive remarks. That is why I am going to deal with the question of whether this is closing Europe or whether it is crippling it. If this were the result of a reinforced procedure, we would already have a problem, because many other countries already have a weighted procedure. In those countries which have such strengthened requirements, it appears that they are forcing proper account to be taken of the concerns raised by Parliament. It can therefore increase the negotiating position of the Netherlands within the European Union rather than the government's ability to say: it seems to me to be a good thing, but I do need that two-thirds majority in the end and I really cannot come home with this. It just forces you to get the best out of the can. Mrs Van Toorenburg proposed making it concrete, because then it will speak even more. I'd love to! May I give an example of Romania's and Bulgaria's accession to the European Union? This example shows that it matters if the two-thirds majority requirement is included in the Constitution. This bill has been passed by a simple majority, but it would not have made it if a two-thirds majority had been needed. This was due to the CDA's vote against. The CDA then, as a large party, made sure that that two-thirds majority didn't happen. Would Europe have become lame? Could Romania and Bulgaria never have joined? That's just the question. I suspect that if that two-thirds majority requirement had applied, there would have been even more intrusive talk with the CDA. "What then are your reservations? Oh, you do not think that corruption is being dealt with sufficiently." Then perhaps we should make sure that there are better guarantees in Romania and Bulgaria, otherwise we will not get the CDA. So even in this case, the impact of that negative vote would have been greater. So it shows at the same time that it can really make a difference. It's not like it doesn't matter. There are examples where it really makes a difference whether it is a simple majority or a two-thirds majority. Mrs Van Toorenburg cited an example herself: how is decision-making on refugees? This example shows that the parties who still cried in 2009 "it's all mustard after the meal', "nothing happens in Europe' and "Europe is finished so we don't have to change the Constitution', were also wrong. Europe is constantly facing new challenges. Again and again, the question is: what are we doing intergovernmentally and what are we doing supranationally? If that leads to treaty changes, I believe that it is still necessary to obtain broad parliamentary support for this. I hope that this example, which shows that this bill can even increase the impact of the CDA, will allow the CDA to vote in favour of this bill. I hope that I have responded sufficiently to the questions and comments of the Chamber. Mr Taveerne has already expressed the hope that this is really the last term. I would like to add that at first reading. I hope, of course, to come back here at second reading, because if it is up to me, we will not get enough of this fine subject and we will continue to discuss it in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u100	I give the floor to the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations for his response and advice to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u101	Madam President. While the various liquids are being replaced here, I start my limited role. After all, this is an initiative law, for which I always pay many compliments. In this case, it is even an initiative law to amend the Constitution. Thus Mr Van der Staaij has placed an even larger portion on his plate and now also on the plate of the House of Representatives. Let me begin with the conclusion of the government's opinion. That opinion does not depart from the opinion given by the Government in the second term. This happened in 2009 at the time of the cabinet-Balkenende IV. The two main arguments mentioned at that time still apply in the eyes of the government. 1. If European treaties were to lead to a derogation from the Constitution, a two-thirds majority would of course be necessary. I refer to the third paragraph of Rule 91. 2. Moreover, the real influence of Parliament is exercised in negotiations before a treaty comes to the table. It was also just mentioned by Mrs Fokke. After all, 28 countries are negotiating with each other and trying to reach a treaty. If the treaty is there once, you can of course reject it, but then you will find yourself in a completely different scenario. The greatest influence can of course be exercised before. I would add a few more points, and then I will address the questions that have been put to the government. It has already been pointed out that the adoption of this constitutional amendment would lead to the need for a two-thirds majority in the European Parliament, for example, to change a treaty, but not for the ESM Treaty, because it is an intergovernmental treaty, which is far more far-reaching. You might think that's an absurdity. And indeed, and this is new in relation to the 2009 debate, there has been an additional threshold in the adoption of European treaties, namely that a referendum can be held on it. That is an advisory referendum, but still... This was gonna be fine. I come to the question of what that means for the influence that a country might have in such negotiations. But before I get there, there are two other points. The letter of amendment, which has now been adopted, does not require a two-thirds majority if the European Union's influence is reduced to one of the Member States or to the Kingdom. There may be some tension between that change and the fundamental view that constitutional changes on the main side need a two-thirds majority. This could also be the case, of course, if a power moves in the opposite direction. This obviously is not about the principle of constitutional change per se, but above all about direction. You then come into a completely different discourse, namely whether you want to create additional obstacles in one direction that you would not want to create in the other direction. Finally, on this point, it is interesting that the letter of amendment states that a treaty which merely provides for the transfer of powers from the European Union to its Member States requires a simple majority. However, I believe that in practice there will never be a treaty in which only one power is transferred in one direction. A treaty will always be a package of measures, where different powers can go in different directions or where there are very different things to the transfer of powers. Frankly, I do not think that what is now being introduced by letter of amendment will quickly become topical, because negotiators always want to ensure, even if they want to take account of it, that the Treaty does not only cover the reduction of powers, but also that there is another element in it. And then this clause doesn't apply.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u102	The Minister gives advice and I want to take his advice very seriously. With regard to the letter of amendment, I would like to point out that I think it is logical that a two-thirds majority is needed when the Netherlands transfers sovereignty to Europe. The fact that a simple majority is proposed when something is retrieved makes sense to me too, considering that the Netherlands is the holder of sovereignty, not Europe. If we turned this around, we would get Europe to have sovereignty and transfer it. No, it's about sovereignty that we bring back. In this context, I find the letter of amendment particularly logical.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u103	That may be so, but I am merely saying that you cannot rely on the reasoning that any constitutional change between the competences of Europe and the Member States requires a two-thirds majority, and that you link it to the direction in which that constitutional change goes. That is possible, and this is a comment on my part. More importantly, in practice, I think that it will not happen soon that a treaty merely means that Europe's powers go to the Member States, because this is always part of a larger package that deals with some issue, and in that case you cannot rely on it. In such a case, this two-thirds majority remains necessary, including in cases where powers from Europe go back to the Member States. I come to speak in a moment about the questions that have been asked to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u104	My thoughts on the Minister's answer lead me to two more questions and one comment. In line with Mr Van Raak, I say that this is a democratic legitimacy. I'll share that with him. Does the Minister share with me that for democratic legitimacy it does matter whether you convey or retrieve anything? My second question concerns the possible interlinkage of transfer and retrieval in a single treaty. Does not the practice of concluding treaties and agreements at EU level teach that there are constantly many exceptions per Member State? We now see it in the distribution of refugees: the Baltic States have a different percentage than other countries. Is that such a problem in practice, as the Minister suggests?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u105	First of all, I should like to address the issue of democratic legitimacy. That is a complicated discussion, because the intended purpose of this constitutional change is to prevent the majority of the House from concluding a treaty. After all, the majority of the House can only support a treaty if there is a two-thirds majority in favour of it. There will never be a treaty that the government or a majority in parliament says should not be concluded. This is only interesting if there is a treaty that a majority of Parliament says it wants to conclude, which is not allowed by the Constitution, because a two-thirds majority is needed. Whether the democratic legitimacy is with it or not is verse two. This also gives me the opportunity to comment on what Mr Van Raak said, namely that we need to discuss whether or not this is the text of the proposal for a treaty amending the Treaties on which the European Union is founded. Or is it a treaty on which the European Union is not founded? In that case, that two-thirds majority is not necessary. I understand that decision is still taken by a simple majority.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u106	Mr Taverne, you did ask more questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u107	That's right. I thank the Minister for his response. I would also like to ask whether the problem the Minister raises is that there is a single treaty which includes both the transfer and the withdrawal of powers. In practice, it is always the case that exceptions are made for certain Member States.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u108	The latter is certainly the case. However, I wonder whether the exception clause introduced by letter of amendment is relevant if there is a more complex treaty in which powers go in different directions. My impression is that this is not the case, because the Treaty does not merely transfer powers from Brussels to the Member States. Let me begin, in order of the speakers, by answering the important question raised by Mr Taverne, but which also came back to other speakers, what this means for the influence of the Netherlands in establishing treaties in Europe. This increased procedure with a two-thirds majority indeed exists in other Member States, such as Romania and Hungary, but does not exist in Germany, France, Spain, Italy, Belgium, the United Kingdom and Scandinavia. It is difficult to say that this increases the influence of Romania and Hungary, because of course the ability to negotiate depends on your mandate. A parliamentary government, which you can therefore accept, has a majority in parliament behind it, can say in the negotiations in Brussels that it would very much like to meet it at some point, because then it will submit it to Parliament with approval. So one can be a little confident that this will lead to support. However, if you have to say that there can still be a consultative referendum and that you also need a two-thirds majority in two chambers, you have less mandate to negotiate there. So it's just a question of increasing your influence with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u109	Then may I ask the Minister to take our negotiators back on course?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u110	I think that this question needs some clarification.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u111	I cannot imagine a negotiator who can say at the table that he needs something to get a majority at home can bring in less than someone who is thought to have the majority already.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u112	That wasn't my point either. My point is that you may expect a majority government to assume that when it negotiates in Brussels, it will in a sense know its support. You never know 100% for sure by a majority of the coalition. So it finally negotiates on behalf of Parliament. However, when you have to get both Chambers with a two-thirds majority, you certainly have to make a big reservation in the current political landscape. So that makes it more complicated to meet these wishes. I leave in the middle what this ultimately means for the position that the Netherlands will have with it, but I would point out that there are many large and influential countries that decide on this by a simple majority. Mrs Koşer Kaya asked what I think of Mr Pechtold's amendment. The cabinet supports that amendment and I refer to the arguments I have just given. I have actually already referred to Mr Van Raak's question on the two-thirds majority and whether half of them decide. I understand both sides of the dilemma. If a two-thirds majority of the Chamber has to decide whether it is a matter to be decided by a two-thirds majority, then everything is always decided by two thirds of its members. Well, that's a choice. The remuneration of Members of Parliament is now decided by two-thirds majority and a simple majority determines this. I believe that I have already implicitly answered Mrs Van Toorenburg's questions in my introduction. She pointed out the possibility of introducing the consultative referendum, which, of course, creates an additional barrier. The objective of foreign policy remains, however, I believe that the government, Mrs Van Toorenburg and most of the parties in the Chamber do not disagree on this. That must of course remain possible, because otherwise you will end up in a completely different path. Mrs Fokke asked about the interpretation of Rule 91, third paragraph. I have just gone into this and it has also been discussed in detail by a state committee. There is now a firm explanation from the Government and the Council of State: it must be a derogation from concrete provisions of the Constitution. So that narrows it down a bit. In 2009, the Schinkelshoek motion was accepted in order to make an explicit consideration of Article 91, third paragraph, by means of European treaties. The task lies with both the Chamber and the government. The cabinet will therefore always make this assessment of European treaties transparent and explicit, with a view to the Court's assessment. I think I have answered the questions I have been asking. Despite these reservations, I would like to express my deep appreciation and congratulations for this legislative proposal. It may be that it is now gaining a majority in the House of Representatives, but I am not getting ahead of that. We'll see. That would be quite an achievement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u113	The keeper wins, according to the proverb, although we still have to see if it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-4.u114	The vote on the legislative proposal and the proposed amendment will take place on Tuesday 22 September.
