ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister of Defence, as well as her officials, the support staff and, of course, everyone who is watching and listening. I would like to inform you that Mr Segers has signed off on this debate. The Minister will start with a general introduction, after which she will answer the questions. They discussed with the spokesmen how they would intervene. I would like us to conclude the answer by the Minister for lunch in the first time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u2	Mr. Chairman. Thank you. Before I begin my introduction, I will reply briefly to part of Mr Bontes' speech. He spoke of the far-reaching feminisation of the armed forces. Not so long ago, a battalion was practicing male soldiers in a field near a forest. During that exercise, a female soldier suddenly comes out of that forest. A male soldier runs towards her and the woman goes back into the woods. The man goes after her, and for a moment there's a lot of noise. After that, the female military gets out of the woods again, alone. Then five men run towards the woman. The woman goes into the woods, the men go after her. A little later there is more noise and then the female military comes out of the woods, alone. A complete platoon of male soldiers is running towards the woman. The woman goes into the woods. The platoon's going after her. There's noise. Shake the trees, the earth trembles. After that, the woman comes out of the woods alone again. Although, there is also a male military coming out of the woods stumbled, with torn clothes and a black eye. He reports to his commanding officer and says, "It's a trap, there's two of them." This is a very serious joke within the armed forces. It has many appearances. But, Mr President, there is no feminisation or feminisation. Perhaps Mr Bontes means that the armed forces must continue to have sufficient escalation dominance. If that's what he's saying, of course I agree with him wholeheartedly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u3	Mr Bontes feels addressed and would like to ask the Minister a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u4	By my plea, I did not mean the opposite man-woman and I do not want to say that women are not allowed to work in the Defense Department. Feminisation is a policy theme, including in education. The second part of the Minister's speech touches my story more. The military is an instrument that can no longer escalate. The armed forces aren't prepared for that anymore. I have deep respect for Margaret Thatcher; really deep respect. But did the minister think Thatcher would ever let her military say "pang, bang" during exercises? Did the Minister think that Thatcher would ever dare to say in a TV broadcast by Jeroen Pauw: because of my arrival there is more gender awareness at the military summit? And then you leave your commanders, your commanders with empty ammunition depots! Do you think Thatcher would have ever dared say that? That's my point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u5	You'll ask the Minister through me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u6	I believe that Mr Bontes was indeed referring to sufficient escalation dominance and its importance to the armed forces. Then he and I are very much in agreement. That is why the ammunition stocks have been replenished. They will also be supplemented in the future. Let me be clear: ammunition shortages are unacceptable to me too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u7	You may ask a very short second question, Mr Bontes. We have just agreed that we will be making pointy interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u8	Yes, but this was an introduction in which I was addressed personally. Then I have the right to initiate my interruption, don't I? That cannot be done with two words. I'd love to, but I can't. Isn't the Secretary of State completely abandoning the Department of Defense in terms of sufficient escalation and teeth? Will the Minister be able to respond to that again? Can it make it clear what it is going to do to make the present image disappear? It's not just an image. They are also facts, because there are huge deficits. We set up gender teams instead of fighting. How is the Minister going to get rid of this image, because it's a picture based on facts?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u9	I am at the beginning of my speech and it will make it clear what I am doing. I believe that over the last three years I have also made clear what steps I will take and what steps I will take. Mr Bontes spoke about the gender teams. I would point out to him that about half of the world's population is women and that these women also have important information in certain mission areas. In order to establish contacts, a female soldier is sometimes crucial, also in the context of the security of our male soldiers. This applies, for example, to the detection of IEDs. I think it is clear that I will tell Mr Bontes a great deal more about what I am doing, what I have done and what I have yet to do. Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank all the spokesmen once again for their input in the first term. This shows once again a great deal of involvement in the work of the Defense Department. Great involvement also with the people, military and citizens who do that difficult work at home and abroad. They do so with great commitment and, as Mr Teeven said so beautifully yesterday, not rarely with danger to the body and its members. All this in the realization that our freedom begins with that of another. Mrs Eijsink quite rightly gave her own interpretation of the three d's that characterize the deployment of the armed forces, namely strength, courage and perseverance. We must not lose sight of the essential importance of this work. I said the same thing last year. There is one more reason for that. After the 2014 Summer of War and the MH17 disaster in Ukraine, we found ourselves in a worrying new reality. Disturbing, because 2014 was the year in which the security situation at both European eastern and southern borders really deteriorated. Disturbing, because our society is also exposed to its effects. The events of the past year show that this unrest does not just blow over or pass us by. On the contrary, and its impact is considerable. The terrorist threat is substantial and therefore real. Migration flows are large and also pose enormous challenges for our society. "Russia rolls its muscles," said Mr Knops. Certainly, the power-political thinking and action of Russia, both in its own region and beyond, is a source of great concern and tension. Let us not forget that the security situation in East Asia must not be ignored either. A conflict there can have far-reaching repercussions for Europe. The far-from-my-bed show doesn't exist anymore. I can't stress this enough. Then the question is, what's next. How are we gonna be here in a year, in five years, in ten years? Have we then managed to reverse the tide or has the security situation deteriorated further, with all the consequences for the freedom and prosperity that have been built up in this part of the world for decades? There is a great deal at stake, and this budgetary treatment is therefore something about it. More and more people are rightly aware that defence is an important anchor, an important anchor in a shaky world order. It is a basic guarantee that cannot be used lightly, and the policy must indeed be kept up-to-date and the premium payment must not be broken down. "Where the DOD's mission became ever more acute, the defence budget was getting smaller," Mr Segers said yesterday. The cabinet announced a trend break in the previous budget for a reason. In this budget, the cabinet takes action. The trend of falling defence spending has reversed and the upward trend has been put in place. Like many members of the Chamber, the Cabinet is aware of the changes around us and of the increased importance of a strong military force. However, I have said many times: we are not yet here. That is why the cabinet has underlined that strengthening the armed forces is based on a multiannual perspective. In other words, the cabinet recognises that further steps need to be taken in the coming years. The cabinet has already appointed these follow-up steps, particularly in the letter of 19 June last on the consequences of the cabinet on the Van der Staaij and Others motion, the first motion to be understood.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u10	Before the Minister goes any further on what I have said in my speech, namely that defence is not an end in itself but an instrument for peace and security, I would like to go back to the goal of defence: peace and security. Also listening to the minister, I look back at the threats in the world. The cabinet has an international security strategy which also guides the armed forces. I have pointed out in my contribution the growing interlinkage between national and international security. Does the Minister also see that it is important to establish a link between these two strategies?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u11	You bet I can see it. Of course, there is an increasing connection between internal and external security. It is also named, for example in the note In the interest of the Netherlands. It refers to the SNV (Strategy National Security), but also to the international security strategy. I think it's also being re-appointed. It can be seen in the way in which the departments of V and J, of State Departments and of Defence cooperate, for example in the Steering Group Military Operations. Officially, but also politically, we sit together regularly to ensure that we stay well hooked. It can also be seen in the Threat Picture of Terrorism Netherlands, which receives the Chamber. It clearly outlines the external context, as does its link with the implications for our internal security. The cabinet is therefore very aware of the growing intertwinedness and shows this in all kinds of documents. It is therefore not the case that the National Security Strategy is in itself and that there is also something like an isolated international security strategy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u12	Despite the Minister's reply, I do not see a substantive link in both strategies. Let me give you a concrete example, which the Minister also refers to: terrorism. The efforts made internationally by the Netherlands with military missions can increasingly be a breeding ground for radicalisation. In the end, this can pose a risk to our own safety in the Netherlands. Is the Minister prepared to look with her colleagues in the field of security, including national security, to see whether both strategies at that level are building bridges? Because those strategies are a guide and I miss a link between them. I would therefore like to put that request to the Minister again through this interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u13	At least I'm very aware of it. I am quite sure that my colleagues in the Foreign Affairs and Security and Justice are also very aware of the intertwined nature of internal and external security. I will convey Mrs Hachchi's concerns, but one thing is certain: both strategies refer to each other over and over again, as in the memorandum In the interest of the Netherlands. There will be joint action. I will ask the gentlemen if there are any possibilities to look even more strongly at this in future versions or updates. I'm moving on. I was just talking about the follow-up steps set out in the letter of 19 June last on the consequences of the cabinet on the Van der Staaij I motion. During the recent General Political Reviews, the Chamber, with broad support for the Van der Staaij II motion, asked the Cabinet to work on this follow-up step. Like many Members of Parliament, I am convinced that the beacons will have to be moved further in the coming years. As Mr Bishop said, the situation in the world simply does not tolerate a hollowed-out military force. It is therefore interesting to zoom in on the strategic challenges for the Netherlands. That's three. Firstly, that is the collective defence in the NATO context. Russia's destabilising action has undoubtedly led to the first major task of defence, which includes the collective defence, gaining considerable importance. For example, there will be a long-term increase in the use of the armed forces in the context of reassurance measures. NATO is also known to make higher demands on the availability, readiness, preparedness and mobility of the Dutch military units. More than in the past two decades, account must be taken of a crisis under Article 5. In that case, a major appeal to the armed forces is likely. We must be sufficiently prepared for this. We also need vigilance when it comes to the Caribbean part of our Kingdom and its protection. The military presence in this region and the possibilities for strengthening this presence, if necessary, are demanding; we have discussed this more often. The second strategic task is our great interest in stability at the edges of Europe, close to the edges of Europe but sometimes further away. For this, both conflict resolution and the so-called fast security and stability promotion, the so-called "slow security' are urgently needed. In all cases, this is a long-term issue and undoubtedly a setback. Quick fixes aren't here. Please note: the use of the armed forces in the context of the international legal order also serves Dutch interests in a very direct way. We are talking, for example, about combating terrorist threats, to which Mrs Hachchi just referred. We are talking, for example, about combating excessive migratory pressure and safeguarding our trade interests, and I can go on for a while. In this context too, therefore, I would like to stress that the commitment is by no means non-binding. The third strategic task I would like to summarize is the safety of our physical and digital supply lines. The Netherlands is an important hub in the world and we owe a great deal of our prosperity to it. The Netherlands is a hub of goods, for example the ports of Rotterdam and Amsterdam. It's a node of people, think of Schiphol. The Netherlands is a node of data, think of the Amsterdam Internet Exchange. The safety of the Netherlands hub and thus of the physical and digital supply lines, the so-called "flow security," is of great importance to our economy and is of great importance for the stability of our society. And yes, especially in the digital domain, new challenges are rapidly emerging. Mrs. Hachchi pointed that out yesterday. In addition to a source of prosperity and creativity, this domain has become the battlefield of state, crime and terrorism. This may be less visible to most of us, but the consequences may be devastating. As a digital delta, our country has high ambitions and also the government digitizes greatly. We must therefore ensure that our country remains a safe place to do business, a safe place to work, live and communicate. Defence together with others makes an important contribution to this. In general terms, I have not even mentioned the increasing appeal to the armed forces in the context of the national task. In any case, what are the priorities in the context of the multiannual perspective against this strategic challenge? What are we supposed to think about? The extra money for Defence in the 2016 budget, as you know, will, in particular, strengthen the basic readiness of the armed forces. The measures that are being taken are mainly in the sphere of material and human readiness. As Mr De Roon rightly pointed out yesterday, our people must have resources or equipment that work properly, which are properly flying, sailing, driving and more than that. When it comes to the follow-up steps, additional measures, for example in the sphere of practicability, are conceivable in order to strengthen this basic readiness. Thus, with the available staff and equipment more and better practice to further improve generic practice and overall readiness, from low to high in the violence spectrum. This is certainly important in view of the high demands placed on the armed forces, including NATO. However, in the context of the multiannual perspective, future-oriented investment in the armed forces is also needed. This is, of course, about the replacement and possible extension of military capabilities of great importance, including in the context of a new security context. For the record, if there is any ambiguity about it: replacing is not the issue. We must keep an eye on the military effects that we want to have in the future. Of course, it can also be about new capacities that the armed forces desperately need and with which, for example, the Netherlands can make a significant contribution in the international context. In the 2016 budget, I have already made it clear that the investment needs for the next 15 years are greater than the available budget. In the end, of course, here too, whether we like it or not, ambition must be in line with the resources available. In any case, this leads to choices, including in the 2016 budget. I cannot rule out the need for additional choices in the coming years to remain within the financial framework, but it is equally obvious that I should like to stress that the need for investment is explicitly taken into account in the development of the multiannual perspective for the armed forces.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u14	The Minister talks about investment needs and lists all the threats and issues that are going to affect our security, in which Defence will play an important role. That's a big deal. The Minister says you will have to balance ambition and resources. From that point of view, I would like to put the following question to the Minister. Looking at these many threats up to cyber, the digital side, is it not much wiser to pursue that versatile military force, which this minister, like its predecessors, continues to maintain at national level, at a slightly higher level, namely multinational with our partners?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u15	I will come back to that in a moment, if you will, because I would like to deal with that in the block of international cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u16	On the contrary, I think it is important to look at the security situation and the threats even before we zoom in on the partners and cooperation from the main points of view. I would like that question answered now. We're gonna go into the depths when it comes to working together.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u17	That's fine. Indeed, Mrs Hachchi pointed out yesterday the versatile nature of the armed forces. She was also critical of this, as were Mr Grashoff and Mr Van Dijk. But let me say here that a versatile character of the armed forces that has sufficient escalation dominance does not mean that you are an all-rounder. That is not and will not be the Dutch armed forces. Let us not forget that in recent years entire weapons systems have been cut out of the Dutch armed forces. Indeed, Mrs Hachchi was most pronounced yesterday with the choices she made. If I've understood her correctly, I'm overreacting now maybe a little bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a struggle to narrow the army down to just the cyber command. Then we still have an air force with or without hunting flies, which is not quite clear to me, and a Navy. Then we leave other tasks to other countries, who should be responsible for other armies. These proposals are, in my view, really out of the ordinary, because for such far-reaching types of task specialisation there is no basis for such a Europe that Mrs Hachci and I share very much. Task specialisation, which is at issue when we are talking about the immediate lifting of entire armies of armed forces, in which countries, by mutual agreement, reject full armies, presupposes confidence in the willingness of countries to give up their sovereign decision-making powers on the deployment of their armed forces. That's not gonna happen. Mrs Hachchi is well aware that I have long advocated in Europe a not too narrow approach to the principle of sovereignty, namely that of the greatest possible collective capacity and thus the greatest possible capacity for action at national level. I shall come back to this later in reply to Mr De Roon's questions. Mrs Hachchi is well aware that the Netherlands is at the forefront of the integration of armed forces, of pooling and sharing. First of all, this is done with strategic partners, as Mrs Hachchi knows very well. However, I must stress that the broad international willingness to divide tasks and capacities between them is very limited, if not nil. The unilateral lifting of armed forces would seem extremely unwise to me, as this could even undermine the safety of the Netherlands. It is precisely international institutions such as NATO and the European Union, which co-form our cooperation in the field of defence, that demand a contribution from the national armed forces in all areas. That is precisely why I often talk to your Chamber about how we build the armed forces, namely with basic capacities, supplemented by niche capacities. This is another form of task specialisation in order to be able to operate as complementaryly as possible in an international context.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u18	We're interrupting in two. You may ask another question in a new interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u19	I would like a new interruption, but I would like a question answered from me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u20	I'm pretty strict. You're going to have another interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u21	I'm going to use my second interruption because I think this is really crucial. When I listen to her answer, the minister starts at the back, namely with the existing military with the existing parts, while I am not standing on this interrupting microphone for nothing, thinking about what the world is asking us, what threats we are seeing and what that means for our security situation. On that basis, you can only conclude that you can prepare yourself for the struggle of the twenty-first century and therefore make substantial investments, only in cooperation with partners can and must be realised. When I listen to the Minister, she says on the one hand: yes, Mrs Hachchi, we do, and on the other: no, Mrs Hachchi, that is not a good idea. Then the Minister immediately flees into the existing armies and talks about abolishing and the choices involved, while the reasoning must be what is needed and what threats we see, to make those choices on the basis of them. I ask the Minister to reflect on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u22	It is not exactly the first time we have had this debate, but I naturally respond to the choices made by Mrs Hachchi yesterday when it comes to abolishing parts of the armed forces. I have just said that I am not a great advocate of an all-ingress of the Dutch armed forces. I heard Mr Grashoff say that yesterday, but there is no mention of that in any way. Since the Golden Age, we have been working together with a number of partners for our security, both internationally and nationally. Working together is a win-win situation and the Netherlands is at the forefront of this. I have said many times and I repeat once again that the military domination of Western armed forces is not given. The speed with which crises arise, the growing diversity and threats and the complexity of those threats call for a military force with great capacity for action. And that is not just the Dutch armed forces. It is always embedded in a larger whole. Mrs Hachchi and I are very much in agreement on this, but that is quite different from deleting a part of the armed forces. And yes, we must always be able to respond to technological and social developments that are taking place very quickly. Mrs Hachchi, Mr Grashoff, Mrs Eijsink and many others also said yesterday that the future of the armed forces can only be seen in a European context. That's right! More cooperation between European countries in particular is urgently needed, precisely in order to increase that collective capacity and hence national capacity for action as far as possible. It is also time for Europe, as I said earlier this week, to position itself as a convincing security partner in a general consultation, because we can no longer expect the Americans to take the chestnuts out of the fire for us.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u23	Mrs. Hachchi, a brief follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u24	I fully agree with this answer. But if you push through this answer, it means that you acknowledge and recognise that you are dependent on partners and that you consciously choose to do so. That is task specialization, because those choices need to be made at national level. I'm not saying we're gonna have to cancel a military unit tomorrow, but you're gonna have to make those choices too. I also share the view of the Minister I have just listened to, because I think she sees it that way. Those choices need to be made at the level of the way you distribute the extra money.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u25	When international institutions such as NATO and the European Union ask us to make a contribution in all areas, it seems logical to me that we should ensure that our basic readiness is in order. I shall come back to that later, but you have already seen that in the distribution of the additional funds. You have also been able to read this in the letters on the employability objectives and the limitations that we still have. There are restrictions everywhere and they will have to be addressed everywhere, and that is what we are doing. Only then can we make our contribution in the context of NATO and the EU.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u26	As the Minister says, I conduct this debate regularly. I think it's clear where we are, too. I would like to ask the Minister whether it is not also the case that we can talk about job specialisation, partnerships and so on, it is largely dependent on the parliamentarians in the various Member States and on the way in which they work together, because that is where decision-making takes place. I can't hear the Minister say it. I imagine she knows more about this as a former MEP. We have shared it many times, but isn't this cooperation largely political will? Whether it is called task specialization or versatility, the Labour Party has been in favour of it since 1999. Perhaps the Minister can respond to this. If she does so, we will also break the debate as if we were on our own, national, not co-responsible for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u27	Sure. I have also given credit to this Parliament on a number of occasions. This Parliament is extremely active in strengthening its links with fellow MEPs, precisely with a view to further cooperation. It recognises and recognises the need for this. And yes, in the end it is indeed very often a question of political will. You can see that national and short-term interests are all too often dominant, whereas in the long term it is actually a big loss. I have often said that Europe is also a long-term issue. Sometimes you think "my God, it can't be any faster" and then you look back after so many years and you think "hey, a lot has been achieved." Looking at this far-reaching international defence cooperation, I think we have taken more steps in recent years than we could have imagined three or four years ago. The commitment of this house and the commitment of Defence and the Cabinet in a broad sense to achieve greater capacity for action is a great asset. I really hope that we will be able to continue this work with all our strength.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u28	Mr Van Dijk also has a question on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u29	I'm following the Minister's plea. It is actually and-and: the Netherlands must maintain a good military force, but it must also work together at European level. How does the Minister deal with the opinions she has received over the past year from prominent Dutch people and from the International Affairs Advisory Council? It states that at least EUR 1 billion and, preferably, EUR 5 billion must be invested in the defence sector if we are to get the military force back to strength, versatile. Does the Minister agree? I saw her driving an armored vehicle this week, and my impression was that she actually agreed. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u30	I was still setting out the multiannual perspective. This will be dealt with. As I have just said, I agree with many of the Members when it is said that the beacons must be moved further. It is not for nothing that the cabinet set out the follow-up steps it envisages in the multiannual perspective, in the letter of 15 June. I was just talking about what we are doing now: to further strengthen the basics. I also spoke just now about the follow-up measures and steps that can be taken, including in the framework of the basic spirit, for example the strengthening of practice in order to raise the level of generic practice. I also said that we must invest in the future of the armed forces. This is also important in the context of the multiannual perspective. In doing so, I had reached the third point, namely the further strengthening, also in the context of the multiannual perspective, of military units focusing on the operational and logistical support of combat units, in military jargon the "enablers," the combat service support. Investment in such units will not only enable us to significantly improve employability and perseverance, but will also bring me back to Mrs Hachchi O'Brien to make an important contribution to the joint resolution of recognised deficits, so-called shortfalls, within NATO and the EU. We have seen the practice of recent years: there is a strong demand for supporting capacities. They are scarce in all allies. The result is that, several times, the same support units, with the corresponding overload, I would almost say, of personnel and equipment, are really being called upon. If Mr Van Dijk is talking about moving the beacons, I can tell him that we are working on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u31	I thought it was a very nice speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u32	Me too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u33	But it wasn't really an answer to my question. My question was whether the Minister agrees with all those people who argue for substantial investments in defence. I'm just gonna assume she's okay with that. We've seen that in the news before.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u34	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u35	My question is this: is the Minister so honest in recognising that these massive investments are not going to be made today and that she is therefore being forced to make fundamental choices about the level of ambition, because otherwise things are going to get really tight?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u36	As I have just outlined, fundamental choices are being made every day, for example when it comes to the money available for investment. Ambitions must be in line with the resources available, so choices must always be made. Mr Van Dijk is trying me a little bit when it comes to mentioning amounts. He talked about all those people who have mentioned amounts, from AIV to well-known Dutch people and so on. Yesterday a number of other members of the Chamber asked for that too, and I understand that. What amounts do I think, what does it take? With all due respect, I think that Members understand very well that I cannot just mention an amount here, not because I have no idea or idea, but because I want to speak to my colleagues in the cabinet first of all in the preparation for the next budget. That's the way it is, and that's the order I like to work in. Mr. Chairman. I will not repeat all the follow-up steps, but in the context of the multiannual perspective, of course, it goes without saying that the ever-increasing demands of the armed forces in the information age also have our particular attention. With the increase of EUR 17 million in STIVD decided this spring, this important step has obviously been taken. Certainly, intelligence is of growing importance; several Members said so yesterday. I have also made it clear, I think, that we are not yet here. We weigh and prioritize. Demand is greater than supply, and ambition must be in line with available resources. Let me also be clear here: the strengthening of the capacity of the STUDY, in accordance with the Segers motion, is also part of the follow-up that I have just spoken about. This also applies, of course, to the information-driven action of the armed forces. I would also like to make that clear. IT is, in fact, the prerequisite for any operational innovation. Moreover, it is a fact that the armed forces are getting increasingly involved with the cyber domain. It is clear that we are only at the beginning of the developments which may have a profound impact on military action. We do not always have a picture. When we built the electricity grid a long time ago, we had no idea what that grid would lead to. This also applies here, but I am sure that this will require additional investment in the future. So I agree with Mrs Hachchi that additional investments in cyber will be needed. Mind you, the current intensifications are sufficient to achieve the stated ambitions; you cannot do everything at once. As you know, an earlier investment for the development of cyber capacity in Defence amounts to EUR 45 million, including human exploitation. I think that was already announced in the 2011 policy letter, although I am not quite sure. Anyway, in the 2015 budget, even more money for cyber has been released as part of the intensification in that budget: 5 million in 2015, 7 million in 2016 and 9 million in 2017. That is not in the budget of last Prince's Day, but in the budget of the Prince's Day before that. Several Members have spoken eloquently about the importance of multi-annual agreements on Dutch defence efforts. The Clingendael report which I have sent to the Chamber analyses the way in which multiannual political agreements are reached in Denmark and Sweden. These examples, as set out in the report, have both advantages and disadvantages. We all have to face them together. It is clear that the military as an organisation will benefit from the prevention of successive drastic changes in policy and certainly also from some financial clout. At the same time, the uncertain security situation will continue to demand strategic agility from the armed forces in the coming decades. I would therefore like to make sure that multiannual defence agreements can be settled in a tight political straitjacket that can no longer be escaped. I think the Chamber is very much in agreement with that. I've said many times that it doesn't benefit from political day-to-day events. This has been a major problem for the organisation over the past two decades. So I am aiming for greater stability in the plans and the defence budget. Yesterday, Mrs Eijsink called for a good discussion in the House of Representatives. I can only support that call. I hope not only for a good discussion in the Lower House, but also for a good discussion between the Chamber and the Government. One of the main benefits of multi-annual agreements on defence efforts is likely to be that these agreements protect against ill-considered cuts. In this context, Mr Knops proposed that the General Court should examine the structural impact of the cuts in defence, as was the case with the AIVD. In itself, that is a very sympathetic proposal, but quite frankly, I would have liked Mr Knops to have tabled this proposal four years ago. Then the cabinet decided on the cuts that are now, as we speak, having their effect. Now that the upward line has been set under this cabinet, I honestly do not see the added value of research into the cuts that have been made at the time, the consequences of which have been felt every day. I don't need that examined. I do, of course, appreciate Mr Knops' incessant encouragement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u37	I had to find a good time, but I couldn't sit here. The Minister says almost triumphantly that all this happened before her time and that she is putting things in order, but if only that were true! This minister doesn't do that at all. The percentage of GDP has never been so low. The Minister doesn't know what's going on with the Defense Department. The Minister doesn't know where the problems are and doesn't want to open up. How can the Minister say with a dry eye that the Court of Auditors should not be involved? We have seen the misery of the AIVD, also on the basis of the Court's investigation. I think it is very important that this clarity should be made clear, that this Minister should indicate how much she still needs and that she should stop talking about ambitions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u38	There is clearly no question of triumph. Every day I see the pain in the operational units. I am well aware that the intensifications we have announced in this budget will only lead to tangible effects in the same operational units in the long term. So that pain is still in the organization for the time being. Don't blame me now for lack of openness. I think I'm more open than anyone about the limitations in the Defense Department and what I'm thinking about doing about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u39	I do not agree with the Minister at all. She'll understand that, too. The Minister announced when she took office to bring ambitions and resources into line. And what happens? Nothing at all! There's a trend break going on. Every week in every newspaper, I see generals say it squeaks and cracks. The Minister doesn't like this, but I'll tell him. The minister has nice stories, but it's about the actions. Now that this minister has been in office for three years and the Chamber has to observe that there has been no increase in the percentage of GNP, we can simply throw away all these fine stories. In the end, it's about what happened, not what happened four years ago. We talked about this yesterday. I talked about it last year and the year before. It is about what this cabinet is doing now or rather failing to do and what this minister is responsible for.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u40	I am responsible, but I cannot ignore the fact that what was decided four years ago now leads to effects, to pain in the operational units. This cabinet will take responsibility. I have just explained in detail that last year we announced the trend break, with money, that we continued this trend break this year, with extra money, and that this trend break will continue. Mr Knops can be very angry here. Again, I very much appreciate his encouragement. But in the end I have to move forward with the Chamber and take those steps. In the end, we will see, also in the upcoming annual reports and budgets, even after this cabinet period, that the decisions that are now being taken lead to positive effects rather than the devastating effects of the measures in the 2011 policy letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u41	We'll do the interruptions in two.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u42	Yes, this is my second interruption. This is an important point. The Minister always says she's very happy with my encouragements. I'm a soccer coach myself. If my players respond like the minister does, I'm gonna have a good conversation. The Minister does not do anything with those encouragements. There is an amendment that is not recommended. The cabinet says there's no money. There's been a trend break. They're fine words, but in the end, the purchasing power of Defense doesn't increase. That is even recognized by our own generals. I'll tell the minister to stop telling me these great stories. You can only say that you are not making any further cuts. This cabinet can say that, but for the rest there has been a lot of talk over the past three years and a lot of plans have been made, but little, too little has happened. I am not saying that nothing has happened; too little has happened. Is the Minister prepared to acknowledge that that percentage of gross national product under her reign has not increased over the past two years?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u43	Agreements were reached at the NATO summit in Wales; I shall return to this later in my speech. The cabinet has repeatedly indicated that it is serious about these agreements. That's exactly what the Cabinet is doing. Perhaps that does not have the pace that Mr Knops would like to see, and I can imagine something about it, but this cabinet is taking on its responsibilities when it comes to the changing security environment and the need for a strong military force.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u44	I'm very sorry, but this cabinet doesn't. The Minister was in Wales with the Prime Minister and made arrangements there. I asked Mr Teeven about this yesterday. He was a lot brighter at this point and said: that pace must rise. What is the Minister doing in response to an elected chamberal motion or calls in this Chamber? She thanked the Chamber for the encouragements I will continue to encourage her but she moved it all to next year, to the 2017 budget. That means another lost year. This is not what we expect from this minister in that tank, the most powerful woman in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u45	With all due respect, there is more decisiveness shown than in the years before. I will continue with my speech. I was at the multi-annual defense agreements. I mentioned another possible advantage, which Mrs Eijsink also mentioned, namely that such agreements make the Netherlands more reliable as a partner. I have long argued in the Chamber that European countries should stop taking decisions on the deployment of the armed forces or the acquisition of capacity. We really need to do this together. A crucial condition for deepening defence cooperation and developing joint capabilities is reliability and predictability. Multi-annual agreements can also play a significant role in this respect. So yes, I am certainly open to discussing the advantages and disadvantages of multi-annual agreements. We were just talking about the agreements we made at the NATO summit in Wales, to which Mr Knops and yesterday Mr Bishop, Mrs Teeven and so on referred. We take these agreements seriously. I would like to be clear, because there is occasional noise on the line: NATO has not agreed to spend 2% of GDP on defence in ten years' time. There is a desire to grow. We have certainly indicated that the allies who are below the percentage of 2 are going to stop the decline in their defence expenditure in any case. That's what the Cabinet did. It has also been agreed that these countries will seek to increase this expenditure as their GDP grows. This cabinet also does that. They also agreed to further increase the percentage of GDP spent on defence within 10 years. In short, the cabinet will abide by the commitments made at the NATO summit in Wales. And there will be another NATO summit in Warsaw. And certainly, I say to Mr Knops, the broad parliamentary support and therefore the encouragement that I still feel here and there are important aspects of this. Because, mind you, that goes right through the parties eventually. Mr Knops quite rightly said yesterday that there is no SP or CDA security or anything. Eventually, there is no financial basis without a political basis. The wider the political support for the armed forces as a basic guarantee for the security of Dutch society, the more stable the financing of the defence effort will be.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u46	I see Mr Van Dijk, but shall we let Mr Knops go ahead?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u47	Mr President, I understand that I am a little bit ambushed. I came in a little later. I apologize. I'm not trying to make up for it, but this is an important subject. The phenomenon arises a little in this cabinet that ministers go abroad, make agreements there, sign signatures and then come back to the Dutch Parliament and then need a lot of phrases to indicate that those agreements were not really so hard, that we all have to see that relative and that the cabinet is doing its best. The latter is something we can expect, and so does the Minister. I complimented her for that yesterday. The Minister is now saying that 2% is not hard. I agree with her on this point, because that is also in those agreements. But that 2% has not been taken up; a path has been agreed, which has been set aside for ten years. For the first two years, the Minister has made zero progress. What does that path look like in the years to come? Maybe I'll still be a little happy today; I'll give it a try. Mr Teeven said some very sensible things about this yesterday, but how does the Minister see it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u48	I do not know if Mr Knops was already inside, but I started talking about the strategic task, about how I see the multiannual perspective, about the trend break I see before me and about the follow-up steps that the cabinet envisages. I understand Mr Knops' wish that I stick amounts to it. It is not that I have no idea, because of course I do, but you will first discuss these matters in the Cabinet in preparation for the next budget. I am sure Mr Knops remembers this from the governments in which the CDA participated. More information on this will follow in the 2017 budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u49	Fine. The cabinet comes up with proposals, but does the minister actually say the following to me? "Wait a minute. In 2017, the concerns are that this 1.14 is a kind of permanent thing and that we do not make any movement towards the 2. Feel free to go to sleep. Have faith in me. It's gonna be okay." Is that what the Minister is trying to say to me or can she not even say that to me?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u50	What I say to Mr Knops is that I think broad parliamentary support is a great thing, because it ultimately leads to financial support, so important for the defence sector. This takes place within a multiannual perspective, on the basis of the follow-up steps that I have just outlined more than comprehensively.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u51	The Minister should explain these multiannual agreements a little more clearly. I have the impression that it is a very symbolic discussion. Mrs Eijsink said yesterday: it is not a question of budget law, it is always in the Chamber. How hard are these multi-annual agreements when you agree to commit certain defence expenditure over the next five years? Or does the Minister say: no, it doesn't go that far, the Chamber always keeps the budget right? But then what is it? Can the Minister give a clear example of what will change if there are multiannual agreements for defence?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u52	Mr Van Dijk is ahead of the troops! Enthusiasm is always good, but I think the Chamber has just called for a good discussion in the Chamber and between the Chamber and international partners on what multiannual agreements can mean, including their advantages and disadvantages. I have sent reports on this matter to the Chamber and have appointed pros and cons. I have said that the discussion on this subject will have to take place in greater detail. So we are actually at the very beginning of a discussion, for which I need context to be able to have that discussion properly. First of all, the conversation should take place in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u53	Before the troops run out, the SP suffers more often. I'll take it into account. But I understand there's actually nothing yet. After all, the Minister says that we should think about it, followed by amendments and motions for resolutions. But there is nothing concrete yet. The minister keeps the church in the middle: there are advantages and there are disadvantages. So, if I understand her correctly, she's not speaking out either. She doesn't say: making multiannual agreements is a good idea, we should do that. I am very sceptical about that. But do I understand that the Minister is still in the middle of what she thinks exactly?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u54	Being a little skeptical is not bad at all, because that is also part of the conversation that the Chamber is going to have. I just said there are pros and cons. You have a Swedish and a Danish model, which could be translated into the Dutch context. That is all still to be done. Last year, during the budget debate, I stressed that day-to-day rates in terms of policy and financial stability had a far-reaching negative impact on the armed forces. Those daily races are really devastating for a military force, because you can break down that military force or parts of it on an afternoon-afternoon. Before you have everything sailing, flying and driving again, you are endlessly farther. We have just talked about the effects of the 2011 policy letter, which are now being felt and will continue to be felt in 2016 and in the years after. We also talked about the current intensification, which only comes back to the operational units after years as a positive experience. That's the reality of the Defense Department. So I think it would be a good idea to discuss in depth within the Chamber and between the Cabinet and the Chamber what these political daily rates mean for an organisation such as Defence, an organisation that guarantees the security of Dutch society.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u55	I too find the Minister's reply to Mr Van Dijk's interruption somewhat lean. The focus seems to be very much on multiannual agreements that could protect us from political daily rates. But that's a very defensive approach. What does the Minister intend to achieve with these multi-annual agreements? What do you think they're aiming at? If the Minister doesn't have a clue about that, it's gonna be a bit of a miraculous conversation here. I suppose the Minister has a vision for that, don't I?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u56	With all due respect, this subject has been raised by a broad majority of the Chamber, looking at what is happening in Sweden and, for example, Denmark. I have just mentioned a number of advantages. In the context of the European defence cooperation, which is so important to the Chamber, and which I will continue to advocate, it is important to be a reliable and predictable partner. These multi-annual agreements can also matter in this context. That could be an advantage. However, I have outlined that we must be careful that such a multi-annual agreement is not at the expense of the strategic maneuverability of the armed forces, because the security situation does not allow it. It is a conversation that is being held in the Chamber, and on which we are going to have a far-reaching exchange of views. If Mr Grashoff is asking me for a sort of silver bullet, which is to translate the model from Sweden and Denmark to the Netherlands, I cannot do so now. I would like to stress, once again, that this has always been a subject of discussion in the many AO's we have had over the last few months, which has been brought in by the Chamber in particular.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u57	It's like the minister says, "If the Chamber insists on talking about it, that's nice, but I don't have anything to do with it." This, while I think the Minister has said earlier that she has a certain enthusiasm about it and that she sees opportunities. I can also assume that the Minister, as a specialist in this field, has a view on this, but apparently it is lacking. In any case, I have a specific question, on which the answer is crucial for me to decide whether I think it is a good idea at all. I am not concerned with the story of the political course of the day; I think that may be important, but not primarily. Does the Minister perhaps agree with me that this type of multi-annual agreement can also lead to specialization and not being able to continue to do everything by the Dutch armed forces being supported by good international agreements with fellow EU Member States?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u58	That is possible, but I have just spoken in detail about the various types of task specialization and the way in which the armed forces in Europe, including the Dutch, are being built up, with basic capacities, infantry units, frigates, fighter planes, but also with a number of niche capacities. The latter is also a form of task specialization. This can complement the different allies within NATO or the different EU countries. Yes, such a multi-annual agreement could be crucial in that context. That's what I just said. If that's what Mr Grashoff means, we'll find each other. I will return to Mr Van Dijk. He asked whether the intervention in Afghanistan, Iraq and Libya was wise. A number of Members, I believe Mr Knops, Mr Segers and others, have wondered whether it would be wise to discuss this during a budget debate. I agree. We talk very regularly in AO's and in plenary debates about the various operations in which we participate. At a higher level of abstraction I have to do a few things from the heart. After all, a military mission can never be seen in isolation. It is always part of a larger whole, political, diplomatic, humanitarian. The preparation of military missions is always very careful on the basis of Article 100. Detailed briefings, discussions with Parliament, and that again in a broad sense. It is not only military, it is also political, diplomatic and humanitarian. The Netherlands never does it alone. We always do it together with partners. Afterwards, missions will be discussed and evaluated. Does that mean that all these missions were successful in all respects and that in all respects all goals were achieved? No, I don't believe that. Would the situation always have been better if there hadn't been any intervention at all? It's impossible to say that. Maybe it was a slip of the tongue, but yesterday Mr Van Dijk said that I was a little shocked; perhaps I am now short-sighted in saying that the West actually owes the migratory flows to itself. The largest migratory flows come from Syria, where the international community has completely failed when it comes to intervention. These large migratory flows are being initiated by Assad. The government takes the deployment of the armed forces in a broad sense, including political, diplomatic and humanitarian, very seriously and does not go on ice overnight. I am quite sure that this also applies to Parliament. These are difficult trade-offs, which involve major interests, with human rights at stake, which threaten the rule of law and allow breeding grounds for instability to grow explosively. Caution should always be exercised. However, as Mr Segers rightly pointed out yesterday, we must be careful not to allow such caution to lead to paralysis. We must also recognise that there is not always a kind of golden bullit and that sometimes a very long breath is needed. We must also recognise that the balance is different from one situation to another and that you cannot follow a black and white approach. Sometimes you have to settle, no matter how painful that may be, for preventing worse.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u59	Mr Van Dijk has a question on the Minister's answer to his question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u60	Absolutely, Mr. Chairman. I am a little surprised that the Minister says: is budgetary treatment appropriate to talk about the impact of missions? We are talking about the defence budget, so we are talking about the status of the armed forces and the tasks that they carry out. I asked one question yesterday: are the missions on which the Defense Department is cooperating effective? I notice that there are all kinds of authoritative people around me who say that, for example, the 2003 war against Iraq was not a success. Tony Blair said that, Halbe Zijlstra said that. We haven't given enough thought to that. I think that this debate is very suitable for that. I now ask the Minister of Defence whether she shares Mr Zijlstra's view that there has been insufficient thought about the war against Saddam Hussein in 2003.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u61	It is not the first time I have discussed this with Mr Van Dijk. I am therefore a little surprised by his question, even though I do not think we need to repeat everything that has been discussed in AO's and other debates. We talked about Iraq. That's when I said there's definitely lessons to learn. We have talked about Libya and, in particular, its follow-up, capacity building and the situation in which it is located. Are there lessons to learn? Sure, absolutely sure. So that is what Mr Zijlstra is talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u62	This is very educational for people who are trying to understand the political debate. I am asking a very clear question and then the Minister comes up with a bit of a general answer. I ask her very clearly whether she agrees with Mr Zijlstra that there has been insufficient thought about the war in Iraq in 2003? Does she share that opinion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u63	I happen to know Mr Zijlstra's article. This is a very extensive and long article, in which it focused on the so-called Arab Spring, which has now become a harsh winter. That is what Mr Zijlstra rightly raises. We must keep a very close eye on the regime that follows the regime that falls. This is a question which, of course, needs to be involved in all future efforts and in all current efforts carried out, inter alia, by Defence in a broad sense, including political, humanitarian and diplomatic.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u64	So you agree...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u65	The Minister will now continue her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u66	The Court of Auditors has a few comments to make on the preparation of the measures to strengthen basic powers. Yesterday, Mrs Hachchi remarked that there might have been a reverse cheese bowl. I think that's funny, but that's out of the question. So I might be able to reassure her. There is no reverse cheese bowl in the sense of everyone x%. I have just referred to the letters on employability objectives, the degree of operational readiness and the limitations on material readiness. When allocating the extra money, it looked precisely where the money is most needed and has the most effect. As mentioned above, the improvements envisaged are directly related to the operational output of the armed forces. If Mrs Hachchi looks closely at last week's letter and its distribution, she will see that there is no joint and several distribution. On the contrary, we have looked very closely at the necessary measures to strengthen the basic readiness to do so as far as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u67	Mrs. Hachchi on the reverse cheese dish.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u68	That is what I want to talk to the Minister about. We received the letter Tuesday, or Monday. I have looked at the letter carefully, including the appendix and the table. Perhaps percentages have not been used, because the ratio is indeed a bit difficult to explain. There is, however, 'a little bit more everywhere'. Let me make the question very specific: what is very striking about the division between land, air and sea is that the army has gained quite a bit, namely twice as much as in the Air Force and the Navy. How did this distribution come about if there is no reverse cheese-shaving?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u69	We have looked closely at the bottlenecks. We have already established with each other that all the links in the operational chain need attention. So you can see that as well, because many units of camps, as outlined earlier in all the letters I mentioned earlier, are to a greater or lesser extent affected by these bottlenecks. Next, the Minister, the Commander of the Armed Forces and Operation Commanders will be sitting around the table in good harmony, different from what is suggested here and there. They end up cutting corners, making decisions and making sure that basic armed forces are put in order.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u70	Apart from those who are all about the table in the end, we are dealing with this minister here. So, if we have any questions, we will put them to this minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u71	I'll explain the process. With all due respect, Mrs. Hachchi asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u72	I think I was still working on my interruption. It's fine that the Minister wants to share the process with us. Let me say that, but I come to the conclusion that the reverse cheese bowl has indeed been used again in this case. Something has been added to everything, but if there is no distribution key, it really is striking that the army has received a lot in proportion. That may be because we have read a lot about the army in the media over the past few months, but it can't be that the loudest screamer gets the most? I can't believe that. I would like a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u73	This conclusion is really far from my point of view. This is so beyond all reality that I may experience every day with the operational commandos and with the Commander of the Armed Forces. I actually sketched the process more because I thought Mrs Hachchi asked for it, but it is certainly not the case that the one who screams, cries or squeals loudest, then gets the biggest bag of money. It doesn't work like that, but let me also make it clear that we don't have screamers, cryers and pagers in the armed forces. In the end, a decision will be taken to address the bottlenecks that are visible to all units as much as possible and as well as possible in order to put the total basic readiness of the armed forces in order. Let me also say something about the operational commands. We're pretending they're all on their own now, but the reality is that they need each other desperately, in every mission. There is no operational command that operates in isolation, in its uppie.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u74	The Minister continues. No, Mrs. Hachchi, we're not gonna do two interruptions in a row every time. Then there are four deadlines. You've already done that once. Mr Knops did that once, but we do not do that every time. So the minister's gonna move on. I give the floor to Mrs Eijsink.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u75	Let me make a point of order. I agree with you that there should not be four interruptions every time. I'd like to sit down, too, but this is a budget debate. We do it once a year. Therefore, I think it is important that we have the space to get the answers we want.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u76	I'm sure you'll get it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u77	Then I'll sit down, but at least I can assure you that I still have an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u78	I thank the Minister for the explanation she has given. I don't know if there's a reverse cheese bowl. I am concerned that no part of the armed forces operates independently and that the armies all need each other in swallowtails or whatever they want to call it. I think we've all learned that over the past few years on this side. In that sense, the distribution that is here is as it is. I am also confident that the Minister will restore the basic readiness that has been discussed in recent years. My question focuses on the effectiveness and efficiency measures that will emerge in the coming years. The amphibious units need each other again for other tasks and so on. As so often as we discuss and assess a mission here, we know that the armed forces all need each other internally. Can the Minister comment on the effects for the coming period? And how does the Chamber get an insight into that? We must, of course, move from basic readiness to a view of readiness at a higher level. Could the Minister respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u79	I think I did that in the written answer, but I love to do it again. I also made a commitment to Mrs Eijsink on this point earlier. I understand that she attaches importance to this, because you want to be able to follow where these intensifications lead. We were just talking about the fact that the consequences of the 2011 decisions I am not saying to put this off from me are now having an effect and are now being felt and that the intensification of today's decisions will not lead to effects for the operational units tomorrow. It takes time to train people and to get things flying, sailing, driving and so on. So, at the request of the Chamber, and in particular following the motion by Mrs Eijsink and Mr Teeven, we have included the matrices in the budget on operational readiness, standard and limitations. I've discussed that with the Chamber before. We report on the employability targets. This will be reflected in the annual report, which it will see again in the next budget and so on, and so on. I'd like to give the Chamber a profit warning. It will not see in the next annual report, and therefore not in the 2017 budget, a clear improvement in all kinds of restrictions that have been lifted immediately, because things take time. But the Chamber will be able to follow it and well. It is in the annual report, in the budget and, of course, in the regular letter on employability objectives.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u80	Mrs Eijsink, briefly in second instance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u81	Then it is good to see at some point that the basic readiness is back in order. I would also ask the Minister to respond next time. For I agree that effects within the armed forces require years, whether it is about austerity or overrides, but the Chamber must have a good understanding and at some point see a far-reaching basis. That has to do with our continued commitment. Thanks to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u82	I'm responding to the profit warning, because then I'll always be alert. If this minister, who generally tells very optimistic stories, gives us a profit warning, we must pay attention. We've been given an overview after our request. I told you before, it's a bit of a shot shot of hail. It's the reverse cheese dish. Everyone gets what: 1 million, 2 million, 3 million. That is precisely why the Minister is issuing this profit warning. Indeed, the effect of these limited additional resources will not be noticeable. Isn't that exactly why the Minister is now issuing the profit warning explicitly?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u83	It will be noticeable, but I will issue the profit warning in case the Court thinks that there will be a huge improvement in the next annual report. This is about the 2016 budget, and the next annual report is about the year 2015. I am also giving a profit warning for the 2017 budget, because I have just said that intensifications which are now being implemented and their impact will not be effective until later. So the effects aren't seen until later. That's the profit warning I'm giving you, but they're gonna have an effect. That is exactly what the Chamber will be able to follow, with some sense of reality. I say that right away, because it takes time to really get the effects of intensification into the workplace. That's what I said on Prince's Day. It takes time to train people. It takes time to recruit people. It takes time to acquire stuff.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u84	Exactly, and we don't really have that time. That's why it's all too little and too late. I have made comments on this before. I have one question about the state. There's one post in there that's still pm. In a footnote: there is no estimate yet for the intensification reserve at CLSK; this will be added later. Can the Minister explain why that is not in this table? Why can't these amounts be mentioned?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u85	Because we were still gathering more information. I'll brief the Chamber on that. Mr Teven also asked me yesterday if I could just confirm that there will be no major shifts in the first supplementary budget. I have thought that this letter will give the Chamber the best possible insight into the current estimates. Of course, if things are implemented and their elaboration is taken forward, something can shift. However, I do not expect major shifts. Even if something was included in the budget at Princess's Day, something could be pushed over at the first supplementary budget. But there will be no mention of the image that Mr Teeven may have had of great landslides. Yesterday Mr Knops spoke of 'the many pm posts'. It was one at CLSK. The Chamber will also be briefed on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u86	The Minister spoke of "small fluctuations between now and May" and "land shifts between now and May." There's still a lot in there. We can assume that these are small shifts between now and May. Can the Minister confirm that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u87	The best thing would be if there were no shifts at all. Big shifts I don't expect, so they have to be small shifts. Should it degenerate into grand shifts... guarantees you do not have in life... then I will communicate openly with the Chamber and argue them. I don't expect that, but let's say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u88	The Minister continues. I suggest we give her some space. We're still trying to finish her lunch break term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u89	Yesterday Mr Teeven asked whether the 9 million added would be sufficient to increase the use of ammunition for training and training. That is a relevant question, because much has been said about it. In the coming years, ammunition stocks will be further brought to a level. As a result, ammunition will be available for the missions and there will be no displacement in training and training. From 2017 onwards, 7 million will be available for ammunition, up to 9 million structuralally. That is an intensification, so that comes on top of the existing ammunition budgets. As spokesmen have seen, no additional budget for ammunition has been added for 2016, as there are no structural deficits for 2016. On the one hand, all this has to do with variation in use. On the other hand, long delivery times of ammunition make spending of extra budget in 2016 simply impossible. I said earlier in response to Mr Bontes, and I would like to stress this once again, that ammunition shortages are always undesirable. However, we must realise that the sustainability of a number of types of ammunition is limited. It is therefore not only a matter of insufficient resources to increase certain stocks. We have many hundreds of types of ammunition, but of some species the shelf life is limited. Therefore, these ammunition are purchased in limited quantities, including in 2016. It concerns some types of ammunition for small-caliber weapons in particular. The deficit in 2015, on which a lot of fuss arose, was this type of ammunition. Variations in use, long delivery times and production delays have then led to a shortage of ammunition for training and training. I stress that deliveries are expected both in 2015 and 2016. Again, for me too, shortages in ammunition stocks are unacceptable. We will do everything we can to keep walking in when there is a potential shortage. Mr De Roon referred to the additional 60 million for BIV. I was a little surprised that he paired that up with sending our people to bounty islands like the Seychelles. I just hope I didn't quite understand him. I would like to stress that there is no such thing as a mission on a bounty island. At the end of October there was a short port visit to the Seychelles of Sr. Ms. Groningen who is active there in the region. Perhaps that's what Mr De Roon was referring to. Furthermore, we are not active in the Seychelles. I think it is a difficult idea to suggest this, because it creates the image that we soldiers would send to bounty islands. I can assure Mr De Roon that Mali, Iraq, South Sudan and the Horn of Africa do not exactly resemble bounty islands. These are dangerous places where our military forces are working under difficult conditions. I'm coming to the AOW hole. Mr Van Dijk asked and Mrs Eijsink asked in particular about the tax effects. I have already responded in writing, but I can say the following. We now have a facility to compensate for the lost AOW. In the written answers I explained that unfortunately there are still adverse tax effects. All agreements made by the Defence Department in terms of terms and conditions of employment will never compensate for tax effects. To be honest, that would be unbelievable, too. After all, the tax situations of former employees differ from one person to another. In the written replies, I also indicated the underlying cause of the problem, namely that the retirement age and the AOW age are different today. The structural solution to the problem is therefore to bring the retirement age back into line with the statutory AOW age. An adjustment of the retirement age is provided for in the new end-of-service scheme which I am discussing with the power stations. This is reality, reality, and there's nothing else I can do about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u90	I understand what the Minister is saying, and I understand the process. That does not alter the fact that I had dozens of people on the e-mail last night with their personal situations and stories about this. They're often poignant. There may be another course of action. The College of Human Rights has said something about this. This concerns not only this minister, but also the government. I would ask the Minister to look again at the fiscal aspects. Is that even possible? I very much agree with the Minister that it is not on the side of the armed forces. The functional age discharge was once decided in the cabinet periods for this purpose. That cannot go from the sum of defence, because out of the 7 billion we have now, 1.1 billion is already earmarked for pensions. The MPs know that, too. So there's less left. Can the Minister respond to that? This is a very serious blow to the people we are talking about, the men and women who have been sent out and are confronted with it. Again, it is not only on the Minister's sign, but also on the government sign. Of course, I did the math, too. It's a lot of money at all. That's why it's called the AOW money. Can the Minister respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u91	In all honesty, I say that the DOD has been clear from the beginning. It was always about compensation for lost AOW revenue; to put it that way. Defense can't comment on the tax effects. Indeed, we cannot take care of it. Mrs Eijsink is right to say that. Of course, I am prepared to raise this with my colleagues in the Finance Committee, but this has been raised before. I would also like to ensure that we create hope for a group for which we have just reached an agreement with the power stations. After all, that hope will be vain hope. I do not want to anticipate a discussion with the Finance Ministers, but this is the hardest reality. I really think it is important that I reach an agreement with the power stations as soon as possible on the new end-of-service scheme and thus the underlying cause approach, but unfortunately I cannot compensate for the adverse tax effects. I just can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u92	The minister says he's going to talk to her colleagues. Of course, that's much wider. I understand the limitations and the difficulties, but I'm gonna do it again. After all, we are also talking about support for our armed forces. This support also includes the men and women who have now left the service and whom we often talk about. I think it is right that these men and women confront us with the fine meetings for veterans. They say: it is very nice to be there and a lot has been built up, but there has also been another reality; for you know, now that I am 58 years old, I am getting functional retirement and I am in this situation. Those aren't all men and women who left the service with pay scales 16 or 17. Can the Minister promise to take another look at this? And yes, with a number of unions it is well discussed. The minister and her crew, human beings, have fought for this tremendously. I would like to give that compliment, but we are also standing here in front of the people who feel that we are actually leaving them in the cold. Because even though we are working hard on it, there are no intermediate solutions yet. Hopefully the Minister will be able to agree to that. And no, you shouldn't hope at times when you can't. You shouldn't do that. You have to stay real within the possibilities, but that doesn't mean you can't start the conversation again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u93	I think it would be a good thing if I sent a letter to the Chamber before the end of the year, in which I set out a number of things. I attach great importance to what Mrs Eijsink just said. Idle or false hope can really cause even more damage and lead to even more disappointment. So we have to keep an eye on reality, and it's not always funny. So, Mr President, before the end of the year, the Chamber will receive another letter on this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u94	This was a promise from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u95	This is a very clear case of injustice to the military. I would also like to say that I notice that my right-wing colleagues from CDA and VVD have a high regard for more money for Defence, but that I have not heard them about this obvious injustice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u96	Ask the Minister your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u97	Does the Minister say the following: I see the injustice and I also see that there is discrimination here, because the predecessors of these soldiers did not suffer from an AOW-hole, but yes, the resources are not there and actually it is a matter of the cabinet; Defence cannot solve it and that is why it is a pity, but unfortunately? Do I understand the Minister that well?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u98	I think I've made that clear. Mr Van Dijk suggested yesterday that the strengthening of the provisions for the 2016 budget should be used for this, but I can tell him that the amount that would be needed to do so goes beyond that intensification many times. There is therefore no budgetary room. There has really been a good look at compensation, to meet the inconvenience and discomfort as much as possible. This has also been discussed with the power stations. The Chamber will receive an additional letter on this subject, so that I can explain everything once more so that there can be no misunderstanding. I really want to make sure that false hope is created now. You know the expression of gentle healers. I'm really afraid of that in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u99	Politics is making choices. I don't care if the Secretary of Defense or the government has to make that choice. This is an injustice and it must be resolved. The Minister says: it is much more money than the extra money that came in for Defence in 2016. I therefore ask her: if she is going to write a letter, can she put it on paper about how much money is involved? The SP will then appeal to the cabinet, because the Minister of Defence will have to find a solution for this in collaboration with her colleagues in the cabinet. Is she willing to put that in that letter?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u100	I just promised to send the Chamber another comprehensive letter. I'll take a good look at what I'm putting in. Just for the record: compensating the Anw-hole, so the current, standing arrangement, is not exactly free either and is at the expense of the available wage space for active servants. You have to find a balance all the time. They too have been on the zero line for a long time and have had to hand in quite a bit. It's not exactly a spread bed for anyone. I'm moving on. We have been asked about the timetable and the end goal of the reserve policy. This was also reported in the reserve note of 24 October 2015. There's been talk of 20,000 people. I said that I am not going to commit to targets, but that I do like a challenge. So I am certainly aiming for substantial growth, but setting a target is, of course, extremely risky. Please note that the planned intensification is, of course, more than just a growth in figures. It also concerns the way in which reservists are integrated into the development of the overall staff policy. The further development of the reserve policy is also based on the findings of the pilot "We talked about this during the WHO Staff Committee and the country comparison. I will inform the House of these findings as promised before the end of the year. The good news is that the intensification in the coming years will allow for quantitative and, above all, the desired qualitative growth. In the course of 2016 I will inform the Chamber further about the further development of the reserve policy in a new reserve note. Several questions have been asked about migration flows, refugees and the role of Defence in this. Mr Teeven was very clear about this and asked whether, for example, Defence could play a role in the early warning on migratory flows. Anti-smuggling should be built into the mandate of relevant UN missions in, for example, South Sudan, the Central African Republic and Lebanon. I very much agree with Mr Teeven that defence can play an important role in this. I also agree with the view that, where possible and relevant, the UN should pay attention to this in missions. This started with MINUSMA partly on a Dutch proposal. However, I admit immediately that this is a very modest success, because the UN mandate for MINUSMA still does not provide for a real executive mandate in the field of human trafficking or illegal immigration. This was simply not supported by the permanent members of the UN Security Council. It is a step in the right direction that we have managed to draw attention to the issue. Mr Segers also asked about this: what is the Netherlands doing now? Do we commit ourselves within the existing mandate to doing work that in any case indirectly contributes to tackling migration and trafficking in human beings? It is not the picture that Mr Teeven has in mind for the future, but it is the small steps forward that must also be taken. When I look at the collection and processing of intelligence, there is indeed some insight into smuggling routes and activities. This information shall be processed, where possible, in the intelligence products shared within the mission. The trainings given to the Malian police within MINUSMA are also of course relevant. We are talking about a more effective fight against crime, including trafficking in human beings. Finally, it can be noted in general terms that stabilisation in Mali contributes to ensuring that migration flows towards Europe do not increase, at least one of the side effects. In this light, the Dutch contribution to MINUSMA is still very topical. This, as I say, in line with Mr Teeven, may, as far as I am concerned, also happen on other missions and even more so. I would like to point out, as I have just said, where possible and, of course, where relevant. However, we must make it clear that the UN missions work on the basis of a mandate and that this mandate in New York needs to be adapted to enable such a task to be carried out. Quite frankly, my experience so far has been that there is not much support for an executive task for the UN, for missions in this area. However, this also applies to the fact that there are also contacts from Parliament with the UN and also from the government, and that in the coming years we may be able to work together to ensure that a breakthrough is made in this area. Mr Teeven also asked about the EU Battlegroup and its involvement in the monitoring of reception camps. I find that an interesting suggestion. The Battle Group is an instrument of the Common Security and Defence Policy, the European Union CSDP. This means that the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union sees that the use of such an instrument does not take place within the European Union's Convention Area. The monitoring of reception camps by an EU Battlegroup within the EU Convention Area is not at issue. The use of such an EU Battlegroup to monitor reception camps in the region outside the EU Convention Area is, in principle, possible. However, for this to happen, it is necessary for the EU to launch a CSDP operation. Then there is the question of whether the use of the Royal Marechaussee can be increased for border surveillance. As you know, V and J are the authorities responsible for border control. Of course, we are working closely with that. I can say that, at the moment, there is talk of the importance of strengthening border control at our external borders, i.e. the European external borders, but also of the desirability and desirability of the temporary reintroduction of border control at internal borders. Mr Dijkhoff has often and intensively discussed this with the Chamber. It is also good to mention that the Netherlands is of course already making many contributions in the context of Frontex. Navy ships will also be deployed in this context. The Chamber has been informed about this, because in the summer of 2016 the Netherlands will make a patrol ship available to Frontex. We will, of course, continue to see whether other ships can be deployed at other times and, of course, as soon as the Cabinet decides to do so, the Chamber will be informed of this. Yesterday, we also discussed Frontex in relation to Sophia and the questions raised earlier this week during another debate on the effectiveness of that mission, EUNAVFOR MED and Sophia. The second phase of Sophia, in which we now find ourselves, concerns suspicious ships boarding, confiscating and arresting human smugglers on the high seas, the so-called phase 2a. Sophia, so-called phase 2b, cannot yet act within Libyan territorial waters. So that effectiveness is still limited, and we have also limited that of the week. But what isn't can still come. I do believe, however, that here too, it will be a long-term issue; so the holder wins. Sophia and Frontex. It's good to lay that link for a while. There are ships, Italian ships that have IND and OM on board, to register migrants directly upon transfer and to arrest any smugglers. These are small developments, but they are good developments. The European Union is really coming a long way from this point of view. Mr Houwers asked a question about the system of benefits. Within the government, as the Chamber knows, we work with the treasury system, so does the Defense Department. It is important to justify the expenditure of all departments in the same way. Whether we like it or not, that's a reality. Another accounting system does not, of course, provide any more money for the defense. I assume that Mr Houwers is concerned mainly with flexibility. In particular, the potential benefits of a system of benefits are that the LCC, life cycle cost thinking could be better supported as expenditure could be more easily shifted between the different financial years. Mind you, that's one of the first things I've been able to take care of since I joined as Secretary of Defense. For the investments we now have the agreement that we can take unspent funds with us to subsequent years, the so-called unlimited end-of-year margin. So I don't really need such a system for that either. It has to be noted that the introduction of a benefit burden is a rather complex, time-consuming and costly journey. So I understand what Mr Houwers is saying and I think we understand each other very well, but at the moment I do not see the advantage of moving to the benefit system.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u101	The Court of Auditors gives opinions on this matter. It is often discussed whether it might not be an idea to raise this issue in a broader context, so that we do things differently in the public sector. To that end, I call on the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u102	Mr Houwers is asking me a little bit. I often wear many hats, from EZ and now again from Finance. I will pass his request on to the relevant colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u103	Thanks for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u104	If I'm right, I've answered most of the questions. If I don't, I think I'm gonna hear it like that. I'd like to say one more thing. Our defence effort is ultimately a derivative of what the Netherlands wants to mean in the world, what we stand for, our identity, our values and our interests. The Netherlands is a modern country, which wants to deliver quality in particular. We have a relatively large economy and, in the words of former Foreign Minister Joseph Luns, we have a large foreign country on which we depend. The Netherlands is therefore a country that is vulnerable in a sense but certainly also a country that is able to connect. A country which has for centuries been committed to promoting the international legal order, whether or not encouraged by well-understood self-interest. In such a country, Mr Knops will do well, and there is a modern military force that can continue to make a significant contribution to international security and thus to national freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u105	In my opinion, a number of questions have not been answered, so I will try again. First of all, I would like to comment on the reaction of the cabinet to the AIV opinion that we received. That was sent yesterday during the debate, on which we asked a question, by Foreign Affairs. Why is there no mention of light army at all? Is there a role for the Defense Department on this? Will the Minister take a more detailed look at this, in particular on the advice of the AIV that more money should go to the Defense Department and there should be a delta plan for Defense? My second question is about the Marechaussee. I had asked the Minister what the consequences would be for the possible increased border controls for the Marechaussee. Of course, the Minister of Justice has a responsibility for this, but so does the Minister of Defence, particularly when it comes to capacity. When it comes to it, I am very curious whether the Marechaussee is available and whether all constitutional and national tasks are guaranteed. I think that is a very important point because there is increasing pressure on the Marechaussee and this is a very essential task.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u106	I too was somewhat surprised by the fact that the opinion of the AIV went to the Chamber just yesterday. I didn't think that was fancy either. So if I may return to that in second term, I am very grateful to Mr Knops. Here's what I'm saying about the Royal Marechaussee. In the context of the events in Paris with Charlie Hebdo, the Jewish supermarket and so on, there has been an intensification this spring, including for the Royal Marechaussee. As I said last week during the transfer of command from the Royal Marechaussee, the KMar is increasingly being called upon. As we know from our military, everything is of course being done to meet this growing profession over and over again. In the end, however, there are limits. These boundaries are also mentioned in the discussions in the various fields of work and with the various authorities. You must also dare and want to reprioritize. At MTV and border control, for example, you can see that the Royal Marechaussee is being used, supplemented by the other defence components. By the way, that shows how the defence components depend on each other. If tasks are required of the Royal Marechaussee for which an intensification is needed, I will also make that clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u107	I fully understand the need for reprioritisation. That's really a cabinet matter. I think it is right for the Minister to inform us about this if it affects some of the national constitutional tasks that may be compromised, so that we know that it is not a matter of pushing away. It needs to be communicated more explicitly to the Chamber. I think it is very important that we recognise that the new tasks are there, but also that they cannot be fulfilled without it being at the expense of anything else. There are always other effects, either temporarily or for a longer time. It would be good if the Chamber were informed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u108	Of course. If you have to make an extra contribution temporarily, you can. If this temporaryity is transformed into a structural situation, it will affect other things and other priorities that may be irresponsible. Then the Chamber will have to be informed. Prioritization may also mean that information-driven action gains in importance, i.e. from risk-based to rule-based. That's a capacity-free thing to do. So there are several angles to approach this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u109	When we were just talking about the reverse cheese bowl, perhaps it was a good thing that you sent me back to my chair, Mr. Chairman. I was then able to think about the answer given by the Minister, namely that the operational commandos were on the table and that this came out. We have a Secretary of Defense. This minister is political leader of the department. She's also the most powerful woman. We are, of course, proud of that, also as a chamber, that our minister has become that of all the other ministers. However, I also expect the Minister to do something, in addition to the operational commands, about the vision of the issue to which the armed forces must go. I therefore ask her what element in the distribution that has now been chosen, because it has come from her on the basis of a vision.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u110	The vision, the note In the interests of the Netherlands, the construction of the armed forces, the basic capacities, the niche capacities, the fact that we cannot do it alone and must do it in a European context, the solidarity within the NATO alliance that needs to be more balanced; I do not need to repeat it all. The vision for this intensification has been extremely pragmatic, namely: get the basics in order and ensure that our soldiers are able to fulfil the tasks that politics, national but also international, sets them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u111	Yeah, I can follow that. However, I have just had a discussion with the Minister. I also hear the points she considers important, for example cooperation with the partners. It is, however, extremely important that the Minister, from a political and political point of view too, should look at the embodiment of it and be directed, whether money goes off or money comes in. Let's hope there'll only be money in the future. The Minister must also make choices and not just leave them to operational commanders. Let me end this interruption positively. If the Minister is looking for inspiration, I think that is always welcome, and I would like to give her an essay from an ex-military: captain of the Air Force André Bosman, a very esteemed colleague, also here in the Chamber. His essay is titled "No craziness, all marines." I'd like to hand it over to the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u112	I'd like to receive the essay. For the sake of clarity, interaction between the Minister, the Commander of the Armed Forces and operational commanders is the order of the day and Mrs Hachchi does not have to worry about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u113	This piece goes through the clerk to the minister. We are also ensuring further dissemination, because that is so nice to colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u114	The Minister has just briefly addressed it, but I would like to have a clear response to Mr Teeven's pilot balloon to stop the piracy mission in Somalia and to move it to the Mediterranean. Then he wants to fight the pirates with private security. Do you share the view that this is unrealistic?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u115	The great danger is that we are now going to repeat a debate that we have had earlier this week. At that time, I said at two different times, namely during various AOs, that the Atalanta mission is being evaluated. This does not happen in isolation, because it is being looked at in connection with the training mission with Somalia and Kamp Castor. It is clear that the threat of piracy, which was previously sky-high, has failed, but as I said earlier, piracy has not disappeared. The root causes are still there and it can take another huge flight. Atalanta is not just about the Netherlands, but also about Europe and NATO with Ocean Shield. So we need to look together at how it is arranged and how we are going to do it. Are we going to do it temporarily or permanently and how do we make our capabilities available? I also said that it is not just about the frigates in the Gulf of Aden. It's a lot more than that. It contains a mix of instruments. It includes measures that shipowners can take themselves, for example certain aspects of the ship that they have to tackle in order to make people less easy to scramble on board. It's also about the Vessel Protection Detachments, the VPDs. Are these marines, as in the case of the Netherlands, or are they private security guards, which is commonplace in all our neighbouring countries? That's another separate discussion. It's a mix of instruments. This piracy is not over yet, but the risks have been reduced. They're looking at it now. How are we gonna fill out the missions? What can the Netherlands contribute to this? Are we gonna make another assessment? Are we temporarily present in the area? Those are all questions that are now being reviewed. If the cabinet has formed an opinion on this matter, Mr Van Dijk will be the first to be informed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u116	We've been hearing this for three years.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u117	Mr President, let me get this straight. Any extension of Atalanta and Ocean Shield shall be accompanied by extensive information to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u118	Okay, I'm gonna get back to my follow-up. The point is that Mr Teeven said on behalf of the VVD: we will stop the entire Defence mission against the pirates in Somalia; we will replace it with private security. Is it right for the Minister to say that there are no plans to stop the anti-piracy mission in Somalia? If so, I conclude that this test balloon is not going to be realized.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u119	There were a lot more nuances in Mr Van den Broek's speech; I listened very carefully to him. Mr Teeven said that we should look closely at how we deal with our expensive frigates. Is it possible to fill in the missions in a different way if there is a decreasing risk? That is part of the evaluation and will be further informed to the Court.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u120	Does the Minister consider that our armed forces are currently capable of fulfilling their constitutional duties? A yes or no is enough for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u121	Mr Bontes also took note of the letter on the employability objectives I sent him around Princess Day. The answer is yes. There are limitations, but this is without prejudice to the fulfilment of employability objectives and demand.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u122	In summary, the Minister considers that the military can fulfil its constitutional tasks. I put that in the context of the letter from the prominent people with a defence background, because they question that. The officers' association also questions it and the words of General De Kruif are also added. If it adds up, does the Minister still believe that the military can fulfil its constitutional tasks? So the people pulling the emergency brake, she doesn't think they're right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u123	That's way too short. The Court of Auditors shall report on the employability objectives. The restrictions are perfectly clear to the Chamber, and I am transparent about that. I have also indicated how we are going to resolve these restrictions. In addition, I have indicated that, in the context of the constitutional task, less or less recourse can be made to the armed forces. There has been a change in the security environment and an increasing appeal to the armed forces. I have therefore said that further reinforcement of the armed forces is necessary. What follow-up steps are being taken for this, I have already told you; already in my letter of 19 June. I explained it to you. Several calls have been made to move the beacons further, and yes, those beacons will have to be resisted if the Netherlands wants to continue to contribute to the international security situation and thus also to national security.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u124	I'd like to return to the purchase of the Reaper drones. The Minister has informed us that it will not be on the agenda for the next seven years, as this purchase has been postponed in time. Now today I'm reading an interview with the Air Force Commander that was published on the Internet yesterday. He says in that: I have every confidence that we will get the financing of those Reaper drones around next year. I have two questions for the Minister. First of all, what exactly is this trust at the Defence Summit that the financing of the Reaper drones will come to fruition next year? Secondly, does the Minister fully share that confidence?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u125	I haven't read the interview yet; I'll do it in a minute. We have said that the demand exceeds the available investment budget. Ultimately, ambitions must be in line with the resources available. So that leads to choices. As regards the budget and in response to questions from Mrs Sultan Günal-Gezer, I also said that we are not going to sit back and wait, of course, but that we are going to look carefully at alternatives. Leasen was then mentioned, and so on; these are all things that are mapped out. The confidence expressed in an interview in this matter again, I still have to read that interview I do not recognize, because we are now in the process of mapping out the various possibilities. The Chamber will be further informed as to whether it is possible, because I promised it. A certain amount is also attached to leasing. I was just addressed to the fact that I am politically responsible, as well as to the interaction with the operational commander and the Commander of the Armed Forces; every day, with great pleasure. In the end, however, I must ensure that this ambition is in line with the resources available. The operational commanders know that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u126	A brief follow-up question, Mr De Roon.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u127	I am just glad that the Minister confirms once again that there is a lot of work going on to make it possible for the Reaper drones to arrive earlier than seven years from now. That is a good thing. I will then, if I may, Mr President, please proceed to my second interruption. This relates to Turkey's NATO membership, which we discussed in detail yesterday. I don't want to repeat any of that. However, a fact is that at the moment the Minister says: we need Turkey in NATO; it is an important ally on a geostrategicly important point; and, in addition, with everything that goes wrong there, Turkey must be addressed in forums other than NATO on what is not right there. I do believe, however, that I hope the Minister agrees with me that Turkey is currently a rotten apple in the NATO basket. The annoying thing about rotten apples in the basket is that they can contaminate the other apples. Now my question to the Minister is the following. In all these other fora, Erdogan simply raises his middle finger as soon as he is addressed to what is not right under his rule. How much longer will the government continue to tolerate that? What further human rights violations and violations of what is fundamental to Western values will Erdogan be allowed to commit before our government once says: it has been enough, now Turkey has to leave NATO? How long will the Minister continue to tolerate that rotten apple in the basket?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u128	Being a member of a military alliance does not mean having to treat each other without criticism. That doesn't make any sense. In my opinion, in replying to the written questions, I also said that NATO might not be the best frame to talk about this. It is possible, but the European Union and other bodies are more obvious. The Ambassador has also recently made a point on behalf of the Netherlands. We have also seen Mr Koenders in action a few times. We do not need to turn our hearts into a murder pit, in a language that Erdogan understands perfectly, naturally with due regard for some pleasantties that are also part of friendly and friendly contacts.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u129	Finally, Mr De Roon.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u130	The Minister is now saying nothing but what she has already said in the written reply to what was exchanged yesterday, but my question goes further. Erdogan simply raises his middle finger to all of us as soon as he is addressed on these points. The question is how long we will continue to tolerate and tolerate that rotten apple remaining in that NATO basket. The Minister may say that this is being discussed in other fora, but the rotten apple is in the basket for which she is co-responsible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u131	Yes, but within the military alliance, the contacts are open again and again. If a critical note has to be cracked, so can I. That doesn't mean you're always on the same page. In all honesty, I do not want to disappoint Mr De Roon, but I simply have nothing to add to the answers I have given earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u132	If you'll allow me, I had a third interruption, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u133	You do it all the way at the end of the block!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u134	Yeah, that seemed so convenient to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u135	Since you have not made any further interruptions during the answer to the questions, I will allow you to do so, but try to put it briefly and ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u136	Thank you for this fair approach. I am now concerned with the Minister's efforts to make cooperation within the EU defence force less non-binding. Let me translate "free of charge" with "less sovereignty." I note that the whole of the EU is shaking at its very roots right now. In many countries, the Netherlands, France, Poland, Portugal and Finland, anti-EU parties are currently the largest in the country. In many other countries, parties that do not want more but less EU are among the largest parties in the country.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u137	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u138	My question is: is it so wise that during the Dutch Presidency, the Defence Minister does not want to be less, but rather more, EU-wide, while the large stream of not more, but less, EU-wide is increasing. Why does the Minister want to rattle that rising current? She's just not gonna make it!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u139	More or less Europe? This is, of course, a question of which areas Europe can be relevant and important to Europeans and also to the Dutch. I have often spoken about this with Mr De Roon. I have a heart for Europe, but I am also a pragmatist towards Europe. We do not have to declare Europe sacred. Please don't! That won't be necessary at all. Europe has become a democracy, as has the government, the province, the municipality and, in fact, all governments. The monster of bureaucracy, including European bureaucracy, tends to attract all kinds of tasks, which is unnecessary and leads to a lot of irritation. That's not strange to the government either. We must be critical of that. We must ensure that unnecessary rules are abolished. However, more Europe in a particular sub-area can be important in order to serve the interests of the Dutch as best as possible. We discussed this last week, as well as the questions about the principle of sovereignty that you raise with it. I spoke about that a moment ago. How do we define sovereignty in 2015? That's the question. I spoke at the beginning of my speech about the strategic challenges facing the Dutch armed forces. I also made it clear at that time that defence really is not just about defending that little piece of Dutch territory. It's about a lot more. How do we best serve the interests of the Dutch? These interests are, by definition, cross-border; I was talking about physical and digital leadership lines, and so on. That means that your answer can only be cross-border. This does not mean a bureaucratic Europe that is cumbersome and can't do anything anymore, but it does mean that you have to join forces where that brings added value.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u140	A brief follow-up question, Mr De Roon.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u141	I would like to remind the Minister of what the chairman of the VVD group recently said in an interview: the more Europe tries to do, the less it performs. I also call on the Minister to ensure that the EU-critical party, the anti-EU party, is currently the largest in the polls. I do not therefore foresee that the Minister's efforts will lead to results. People don't want that either. I do not understand why the Minister goes against what people in our country want, namely less Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u142	As a Europragmatician, I suggest that we continue to look carefully at how we can best serve the interests of the Dutch. I am not in favour of more Europe in all areas. I have just said that Europe has also become a bureaucratic monster and that you must therefore dare to be critical. You don't have to declare it sacred. That is not necessary at all, but that Europe is not on Mars. We too are Europe and so we ourselves have the helm in our hands. By definition, our security interests are cross-border. I'm not talking about a European army. I am not talking about task specialization in the sense of abolishing entire armies. One thing I am quite sure is that this cross-border cooperation with our strategic partners is not nice to have, but necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u143	I'll be back on the Reaper. This was discussed in the substantive legislative consultation held on 2 November last. My colleague Mr Günal-Gezer spoke about this at that time. I've got the Acts here for me. I have another question for the Minister. Seven years' delay is a long time. Even in my group, questions have been asked about this, because it is very important to look forward to the future. Seven years is a lot. Why exactly is it seven years? I have looked closely at the weapons system program, but my question is mainly about the following. In 2013 we decided that the Leeuwarden Air Base will be transformed from a Main Operating Base to a Deployed Operating Base; sorry for English, but that's what we started calling it. What does that mean for Leeuwarden? Leeuwarden's ready. This is covered by the Air Force, people are trained and both the municipality and the province expect from us as government some stability and continuity. That does not mean that I do not understand what is ahead and what has become the choice. The municipality has written a letter on this matter to all our colleagues and probably also to the minister. Can the Minister respond to that? It concerns 100 people, the creation of a special unit for this purpose. Then, of course, there will be further consequences if the Minister says that she may come up with other solutions; I have the Acts before me. Could the Minister give us a hint of the veil, including for these people, who naturally expect us to be reliable?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u144	No one's gonna be surprised that I got a burn note too. I have already said in the legislative consultation that the Main Operating Base is maintained. I later repeated that in the direction of the King's Commissioner. So there are no immediate consequences for the area tomorrow. I understand that they would like to see this additional employment created there, for example, as a result of the Reaper's arrival. In response to the letter of fire, I did inform you that if I do not solve the problems of basic readiness and invest in other things, I will have a much bigger problem and perhaps have to decide to turn the Main Operating Base into something completely different, so first things first. I'm sorry about English, but that's the starting point. I think the region is well aware of that. Leeuwarden remains a Main Operating Base. I'll be back on the Reaper. Everything costs money: the acceleration, the alternatives and so on. Mrs Eijsink will agree with me that the financial frameworks are leading. Again, you must be careful of vain hope, of false hope. Of course, we are going to look at what is possible, because the need has not been created for nothing. I have promised earlier, in response to questions from Mrs Günal-Gezer, that I will return to that, but it must all be possible and real. I would nevertheless like to make some sense of reality when it comes to acceleration, alternatives and so on. Those investments are made appropriate each year within the financial frameworks. It is now a seven-year period, but I sincerely hope that it can be changed. In seven years, a great deal can happen, as I have also discussed with Mrs Hachchi. Thinking about the product and about the alternatives does not stop. The Chamber shall be informed accordingly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u145	I thank the Minister for this answer. I think it is important that the Minister should do so to include the Chamber in future developments, perhaps before we receive the 2017 budget, because this remains a very important point. Developments do not stand still, but the financial frameworks are leading. I have been the first to talk to successive ministers about this in recent years, so I very much agree. But then it is also good to present the alternatives to the Chamber in good time, because it is also a responsibility of the Chamber to think with the Minister about these visions of the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u146	This is one of the few times I have come forward, Mr President. Thank you for giving me the opportunity. I have a question following what Mrs Eijsink is saying. Of course, all the political groups received that letter from Mayor Crone. Those concerns are justified. We all understand that. I also understand the Minister's answer that it should all remain within the financial framework, but I have the next question to ask the Minister, following what Mrs Eijsink is asking. She also has some concerns about the seven-year term and the delay of those drones and those unmanned planes. That's been put on hold for a while. Clingendael talks about multiannual plans. Now I have to think about it, and the Chamber must also focus on it, but I would like to hear the Minister's views on it. If you can translate the word "multi-annual plans" into "multi-annual agreements" and your multi-annual agreements, after the Court has thought through, into "multi-annual budgets," will you perhaps be able to recover the legitimate problem that Mrs Eijsink raised of that seven-year delay in time?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u147	The advantage of these multi-annual agreements, or whatever Mr Teeven put it, may be that there will be more stability in certain planning processes. That's how I see it now, but that conversation still needs to be made. Then you are not busy every year to make your total investment needs fit. Shifts will always take place, including in the context of multi-annual plans, but they are now taking place with very serious shocks. So I see an opportunity there, but I also just spoke about the need for strategic maneuverability of the armed forces. We must also avoid this straitjacket. So there are opportunities and benefits. It would be good if we tried to translate the report on this subject and the model we see in Sweden and Denmark together into the Dutch context.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u148	I thank the Minister for her first-term answers. I would also like to thank the Chamber for its constructive attitude, including in the interruptions. This brings us to the end of the first deadline for dealing with the defence budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-6.u149	After the suspension of the meeting, the order of business will be followed. I would ask Members to be careful, because the order of business is a request for postponement of the votes, the outcome of which we do not yet know. So the second deadline for dealing with the defence budget could just start faster.
