ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u1	We have arrived at the first term of the government. I would like to welcome the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations, Mr Plasterk.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u2	Mr. Chairman. As you have seen, a number of my staff have worked on the written answers to the questions up to the late hours. If it is correct, the questions are all addressed in the written answer. For this reason, and in view of the time available, I intend to present my contribution in the first term as follows: I will make a brief general introduction and then briefly discuss nine subjects. I'll just mention those subjects. First of all, I would like to mention the events in Paris and, in conjunction with that, the capacity of the AIVD and the Intelligence and Security Services Act. Secondly, I will deal with migration and everything that has to do with it. The third issue is decentralisation. The fourth is the municipal finances, including the aldermen's burning letter we recently received on this issue. Fifth, I will deal with the digital government and the open government and so on. Subject number six is the Public Administration Act, and in particular the questions asked about its abuse. Subject number seven is Safe Public Task, especially the Safe Public Task Expertise Centre. Subject eight is the Association for Small Cores. The ninth issue is the referendum on Ukraine and its organisation. I think I have addressed many of the issues raised by several speakers. Perhaps there is a category of other questions left, but I can see that in the interruptions. I'm starting my brief introduction. This is my third budget in the field of BZK. A lot has happened in that area. I would like to take this opportunity to say that I am proud of the people who do this, in the organisation and around it. I'm also proud of the inter-administrative interplay of the past few years. I would like to mention with the ten fingers I have ten subjects that have happened to great things or are happening. I do not intend to provoke another debate on each of these subjects. I'd just like to mention them. Some of these topics are also on my first list. First of all, I would like to mention the biggest change in internal governance since time immemorial: the large decentralisations in which BZK is the coordinating department. I'll get back to you on that. Secondly, I would like to mention the setting of a ceiling for maximum salaries in the public sector. That ceiling was introduced and then reduced by €51,000, from €230,000 to €179,000. In a month and a half, this ceiling will also apply to the care sector and to housing corporations. Then it applies across the whole range of the public sector. The third issue is the zero line for civil servants. It's off. There is a wage space agreement, in which BZK played a coordinating role. Fourthly, the protection of local politicians. In fact, for the first time there has been a departure from the view that there can be no form of national funding if there is local cause for protection. We've created a safety net for that and we're about to fill it out. As a fifth, I call the waterboard elections. The turnout has doubled, because we have now organised it in the polling room. The sixth topic is the scaling-up of municipalities: there are now 30 municipalities less than at the start of this cabinet period. One of the most difficult mergers in this area was the one in the Gooi, which was stranded here earlier in the Chamber. As you know, there are elections there today. Seventhly, we have laid the foundations for the new Intelligence and Security Services Act. I'll get back to you on that. Point number eight is the supervision of finances and integrity in the Caribbean. That's reinforced, in a way that didn't exist before. Ninthly, we do a lot of local government. Perhaps we will come back to that in the event of interruption, but we support, among other things, G1000-like citizens' initiatives. Finally, it is the major issue that is now being raised. That's what my two hands are full with. That is perhaps a good picture, because the municipal administration has a lot to do with the question of how to deal with asylum seekers. I'll get back to you on that. BZK sits together with relevant directors such as Dijkhoff, when it comes to asylum and emergency shelter, and Blok, when it comes to creating housing, with local government at the table to pour those things into the barrel. I only mention that to emphasize that the classical mother department of BZK is really acting in the heart of the events of this moment. I would once again like to thank the staff and the co-drivers with whom we do this in consultation. I couldn't help but think about it. I would just like to take up the issues right away, but not after I have said the following. Mrs Wolbert pointed out that she was replacing Mrs Fokke. She and her wife Angelique have had a baby by now. Perhaps Berend Fokke can be made immortal by means of the Acts of the House of Representatives with my congratulations to the family. We hope to see Mrs Fokke again in this place. Back to a much more serious subject, the horrible events in Paris. This is perhaps one of the toughest issues we have had this period in Europe and also in the Netherlands. Tomorrow there will be an extensive debate with the Prime Minister, the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of V and J on this subject. I have referred in writing to tomorrow morning's debate on the questions of V and J or prevention. I am now happy to address the questions that lie in the policy area of the BZK. First of all, the question of international cooperation between services has been asked. I would suggest first of all that the cooperation with the services most involved in these horrific events, i.e. the services in the immediate neighbouring countries, is excellent. There is no reason for the Dutch service to complain about this. As you know, we have already agreed on previous occasions to continue looking for ways to cooperate better in the context of the Counter Terrorist Group, an informal intelligence team. One of the topics in which the Netherlands has taken the lead is the alignment of the criteria for drawing up lists of people to be identified. That is what was asked for in the motion for a resolution. The service is committed to that. I cannot inform the Chamber about this in detail in public, but it has been asked. Through the appropriate channels of the CIVD I can of course inform about this in detail. In any case, it will play an important role during the Dutch Presidency. In the meantime, I have also been on the agenda to go to a meeting of relevant directors and to step up cooperation with them. I see that Mr Van Raak wishes to place an interruption. I am looking at the President: I can take a breath here or finish the block across the AIVD and Paris. I'll leave that to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u3	My advice is to keep breathing anyway. I am also looking at Mr Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u4	I would like to comment on cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u5	Mr Van Raak therefore wishes to put his question now. It's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u6	For a few years now, I have been hearing that cooperation is good, but when we look at the events in Paris last Friday and the attack on Charlie Hebdo, Brussels, Copenhagen, London and the Thalys, it was always clear that attackers were in the sight of a number of secret services. I do not know how many attacks there are, I think much; so there may be very good cooperation there, but the attacks that have been carried out always show that people were in sight but have not acted and that information has not been properly exchanged. Does the Minister therefore agree with me that the time of good intentions is over?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u7	I have two comments to make. Firstly, the fact that someone is targeted by a security service does not mean that any threat of attack can be removed. Secondly, the fact that someone is targeted by a security service in public does not simply say that the other security services do not know about it. The fact that there has now been an attack in Paris and there may have been someone who was in the crosshairs. I would like to say, however, that I did not say that, in general, cooperation between all the security services is optimal. I said that in the specific case we are talking about, which is about cooperation with the neighbouring countries directly concerned, we have no reason to complain about cooperation with the security services in those neighbouring countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u8	If that information exchange is there, then there has been a problem with the disruption, with the action? Surely there has been a problem with cooperation with police, justice and ggz services? These attacks also show that there's information in a lot of places, don't they? Often the people who are in the picture also have a criminal background or a ggz background. There is a lot of information on many services and yet you can see that it does not shift from one agency to another.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u9	Now Mr Van Raak asks for an assessment of what happened to that information in France. I'm not gonna give it here. Secondly, strictly speaking, it is no longer a question of the level of knowledge of the service, but of what action has been taken on the basis of that knowledge. For that I would like to refer to tomorrow morning's debate. That's about the action. I confine myself to political responsibility for the collection of knowledge by the service. I am speaking about this in public as far as I can and no further than that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u10	The collection of information and that cooperation are extremely important. Yet we see every time something goes wrong. Whatever that is, I am not going to argue with Minister Plasterk right now. That will probably all be dealt with in detail tomorrow. I'd like to hear from the Secretary of State. If you want to maximise this cooperation at European level, you could also ensure that INTCEN really gets its hands on it, so that, first of all, that cooperation can actually take place and secondly, that Member States can also ask INTCEN to sort out certain things. Is the commitment of the Netherlands, especially when the presidency is taken over, to make this possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u11	That's very close. National security is a national responsibility. From that national responsibility, we must recognise that where the threats are international, it is impossible to address the problems adequately with the security services of a single country. We will therefore have to do so by allowing services to work together, from service to service. Governments can, of course, play a stimulating role in this. It remains that national security is a national responsibility. So I do not want to go to a situation in which it is decided in Brussels how we deal with our national security or with a body that is controlled from there. In addition, one service is much more professional, much better at secrecy or much more reliable than any other service in Europe. We will therefore have to choose our partners.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u12	Terrorism does not remain within the borders, but goes beyond them. Of course, we think it is extremely important that we have our own security and intelligence services here in the Netherlands. That's why we reversed the cuts. It is very important that the protection of Dutch society is properly taken into consideration. At the same time, we do see Mr Van Raak saying that the cooperation is not going well over and over again, for example at the Thalys. Then it is not strange to say: can we at least at European level ensure that INTCEN gets hands and feet and is democratically guaranteed? This will enable national security services to pick up and investigate questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u13	Actually, I've already answered both questions. The serious incidents mentioned cannot be put forward in isolation as an illustration of the fact that cooperation between the services is not working. I am in favour of cooperation with other services in Europe and beyond, but not of giving up powers. As far as I am concerned, the democratic guarantee of these services will also have to be provided at national level, assuming that the systems in those countries, including for this democratic guarantee, are also different.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u14	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u15	Mrs Koser Kaya, we are doing the interruptions in half. I would ask you all to keep the interruptions brief and give the floor to Mrs Van Toorenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u16	The Minister rightly points out that there is a need for careful consideration of how the services work safely, but he also recognises that a battle will soon have to be fought within Europe under the Dutch presidency. One of the Members of Parliament has been preparing for this presidency for a very long time. The Foreign Office is also working to make a real move. We all run into these borders every time. The Belgian Minister for Justice also points out that it really is not getting along. I'm just looking at how that relates to what the Minister is saying today: it's actually going better and we're getting to the point, while the Netherlands understands that it has to use its leadership role to make a move in this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u17	I agree with Mrs Van Toorenburg that we must cooperate as much and as well as possible. The discrepancy that it identifies may have to do with the sometimes somewhat loose way in which services are discussed. It is not always clear whether this is about police services or about intelligence and security services. Again, for the intelligence and security services too, there is still room for improvement if we look at Europe, for example, in terms of harmonising the classification criteria for the danger of someone. Each service has a valid system for that. However, if these systems are all different, communication is not optimal. That is a particular point of attention. I have added that cooperation with neighbouring countries is no reason for us to complain.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u18	I would suggest to the Minister that he sit down with a number of Members of the European Parliament. I know he likes to look people in the eye to get this right. What do they run into with their other colleagues? We are getting signals that, for example, there is informal cooperation on everything in Greece, but no agreement has been reached on it at all. It would only depend a little on good will if essential information is passed on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u19	That's what I'm telling you. I am happy to do so, because all input is welcome. I believe that Mrs Van Toorenburg and the government agree that this is without prejudice to the fact that the ultimate responsibility for national security remains national. That's what I'm gonna keep up in that conversation. I like to have that conversation. The second part of this first point is the capacity of the AIVD. Questions have been asked by Mr Veldman, Mrs Van Toorenburg and Mr Van Raak. In fact, all the speakers have talked about it. I have already done it in writing, but let me make it quite clear that the AIVD currently has the capacity to do the work that needs to be done. Many debates have already been held and we all know that at the start of the cabinet a coalition agreement had been reached by the House of Representatives and that the government does not do so with a substantial cut in the AIVD. In successive steps, we have been able to turn it into a continuous increase in the budget. When I arrived, the budget for the AIVD was 193 million and now it's 213 million. It's only gone up, and it's going to rise even further. That is necessary, because there are, of course, new circumstances. You always see that success has many fathers. I will leave it in the middle for a moment who has all been at the cradle of it. The last two intensifications at the AIVD have emerged from the bosom of the cabinet, but then we have indeed received broad support for this in the Chamber and I am grateful to the Chamber for that. The key question is, of course, what I do when the AIVD tells me that he can't actually do his job anymore, because he doesn't have enough capacity and resources. I admit that I will immediately put that on the table in the middle of the Trêveszaal, and that cannot be without consequence. Mr Veldman already referred to the statements made by the Prime Minister who, as a primus inter pairs, can make that kind of statement more easily than I do as a portfolio holder. So he has already said: if there is a reason to ask for additional capacity for national security, then it cannot be that the cabinet is looking the other way. The answer to the question is therefore affirmative.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u20	We leave the fight over why it all went so dramatic but behind us. We're looking to the future now. The government's letter on the appalling attacks in Paris talks about stepping up and increasing preparedness. Not only there is spoken in such terminology, but also in the answer to the written questions. It says: priorities are set if necessary and capacity is released. That sounds a bit like choices have to be made later and that may not be the right choices either. I would therefore like to hear from the Minister whether he has the idea that there should be money. As a CDA, we have tabled an amendment of EUR 200 million to strengthen the safety chain. If there is another battle to be struck at the AIVD, the Minister really has to say it now, because the terminology in the letter and the answers suggest that it is a bit pinchy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u21	A comfortable position for a wallet holder! The Chamber is now more or less offering that I should report it if I need an extra budget. At the same time, this brings with it a responsibility. However, my answer to this is: no, the budget for the AIVD... Mrs Koser-Kaya had the graph with her even though I brought it with me, too, on which you can see that the monotony is crossing. It has quadrupled since the year 2000. There are and will be new people appointed. There is no need to allocate any additional budget at this time. I admit that Mrs Van Toorenburg also knows when I think this is necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u22	Fine. Thank you. Can you also indicate which priorities might become a retroactivity? It is a complicated word, but what, in other words, is sacrificed if other choices have to be made? Can the Minister tell us that, too? We know, then, whether it is necessary for us to adapt.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u23	That is a question of the internal priority of the AIVD and we do not talk about it in public. Let me say this about it. If events such as those of the past weekend occur, this naturally requires an immediate extra effort from the service. I was there last Saturday, and then you suddenly see some dozen people who wouldn't have been there if they hadn't. This must, of course, be taken into account within the organisation in the short term, and that can be done. If such situations were to occur often, the moment may come when we have to say: it runs us over the shoes. Before that happens, we need to be there. I say to Mrs Van Toorenburg that I will inform her that this is the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u24	It is stated that the AIVD is in order and that there are sufficient manpower and resources. However, how does that relate to the fact that AIVD had to borrow policemen last year because there was a shortage of manpower? Is that problem completely solved? Don't we see that again?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u25	I've heard that a few times in the first term. I may have reacted in body language at that time, but it is not strictly possible for me to confirm or deny here what the staff policy of the services is like. So I never confirmed the report on the appointment or borrowing of police officers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u26	It is possible that the Minister did not confirm that. It is only indicated by various agencies, including those of the intelligence service itself. So again the question: if it is claimed that the AIVD has its affairs in order, how does it relate to at least the stories of intelligence staff themselves that this is not the case and that even policemen should be borrowed because there would be a serious shortage when it comes to following all the jihadists returned to the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u27	I'm not gonna respond to AIVD staffhearsay on personnel policy. Perhaps I can explain one more point on Mr Van Klaveren's point. I read in a quality newspaper recently that every time there is a reason to keep an eye on someone, I have to sign it. Indeed, this is the case, and that 30 FTEs should be deployed immediately. The latter is not exactly the case. I am pleased that the opportunity is being offered to contradict that. The use of special resources does not have to be automatic for someone to be followed 24/7. It may also be that a phone is being tapped or someone is being watched. So this might still be a footnote. I really can't go into that formation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u28	For the Acts, I report that Mrs Van Toorenburg has temporarily left the sitting for the constituent deliberations of the Committee of Inquiry into the CIVD. The Minister continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u29	Thirdly, I would like to address the question of what this means for the revision of the Intelligence and Security Services Act. Let me immediately link the answer to Mrs Voortman's question as to what the recent judgment of the Court of Justice in the Broken case has brought with it. Both new facts, on the one hand, the judgment of the court, on the other hand, of course, the increased pressure to equip the security services in terms of instruments, lead me to believe that, as a cabinet, we should speed up the review of the Intelligence and Security Services Act. I've also had internal meetings to get on with it. The aim is that in the first quarter of 2016, i.e. the coming year, we will bring a law here in the Chamber. I would like to stress that there is also, of course, an advisory process between the Council of State, which I do not have entirely in control. However, I intend to do so as soon as possible, also because we must be in compliance, in accordance with the ruling of the court recently made.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u30	That verdict was made on July 1st. As I understand it, the ruling was that within six months there should be an arrangement to ensure that lawyers are no longer bugged in advance without an independent test. If the Minister is going to submit a law soon, he is not going to make it six months, because an agreement must be reached on 1 January. How's the Minister gonna do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u31	That is a good point from Mrs Voortman. By the way, the State appealed to the Court of Justice after the judgment in June. The grievances, as we know, have been rejected by the court. So that is a new fact that has occurred more recently than June. Indeed, because the legislative process cannot be completed in human terms before 1 January 2016, we will have to come to an arrangement under ministerial arrangements. Otherwise, as a service, we will have to join in the verdict that we should no longer use any special means in a client-lawyer interaction. That wouldn't be good for national security.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u32	So the Minister now states that he has made an arrangement before 1 January to ensure that lawyers are no longer bugged without a prior check?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u33	Yeah, and if that's not the case, then those lawyers can't be bugged. That's how I wanted to close this block.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u34	But not after Mrs Koser Kaya has committed her interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u35	I had also asked questions about the colocation, the living together of the AIVD and the STUDY. My precise question was first of all the following. The cohabitation doesn't start until 2022. It was intended to start as of 2018. There's an 11 million-dollar hole. This would have reached 9 million in 2017 and 11 million from 2018 to 2021. My first question is whether this hole affects the AIVD's capacity.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u36	No, it doesn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u37	My second question concerns the situation after 2022. The Minister states in his letter that the synergy advantage is then 3.1 million. The user fee would amount to 15.9 million in 2022, I understand. What the user fee is at the moment, I haven't been able to figure out, but what would that fee be in 2022 if they didn't move in together?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u38	The plans for living together with the Defense Department were made when there was also a plan to make substantial savings on the formation of the AIVD. Then it would indeed be possible to move in at the barracks in The Hague with relatively less large interventions and then end up under one roof. In the meantime, the STIVD and the AIVD have intensified. Then a larger building is needed to house all these services and to house the equipment properly. As a result, the costs on that side increase again. However, these costs can be met within the budgets of the services. So this does not call for a new budget from the general budget. In any case, it also has great advantages in terms of content to have these two services in one location. New construction will have to be carried out for this; it is not a small matter. I've sent the Chamber the ministerial decision on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u39	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u40	No, Mrs Koser Kaya, the Minister continues his speech. You can't be satisfied with the answer, but we made an appointment. If you wish to return to this subject, you have a second deadline. The minister continues to his second block.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u41	Mr. Chairman. I'm going to my third block, the decentralisation. No, I'm going to block two first, about migration. The large flow of asylum seekers is, of course, one of the major issues facing our country and Europe. As Members know from another occasion, cabinet policy consists of three objectives: to try, through reception in the region, to limit the influx into Europe, to distribute the influx into Europe proportionally between the Member States and the people who are here in an even sober but humane manner and to treat and work on the integration that is part of it. Homeland has an important position in that entire trajectory. For example, we are steering a public consultation to be held soon. As Minister for Foreign Affairs, I chair the administrative consultation on financial relations (Bofv). In this consultation we try to identify the financial consequences. We are ultimately working towards a government consultation with more or less the same composition. However, this will be chaired by the Prime Minister. The objective is to reach a final agreement on costs and on how they will be embedded, including in the National Budget. In addition, we have a director's table. I come to speak about this in the block about decentralisation, but this way of working, in which municipalities and those involved in the Empire together try to ensure that there are no gaps and that no issues are thrown over the fence, we like it. The intention is to organise a management table on this subject under the chairmanship of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. There are also administrative consultations, for example of the Secretary of State for Security and Justice with municipalities and with the King's Commissioner on emergency care. These consultations are conducted jointly by V and J with BZK. Last week we had such a discussion with the King's Commissioner. I also consult with Mr Blok, who is leading the way, with the municipalities on the construction of temporary shelter, emergency shelter and various forms of housing. I've already informed the Chamber that BZK has set up a flying brigade. A lot of use is being made of it. One can call the team if one has questions about how to deal with sessions with residents about asylum seekers or how to deal with the threats that sometimes arise from them or with the protection that is then necessary for local government. If necessary, people from that flying brigade can also offer their services on the ground. This is also being used. In other words, this is a big challenge. I'll be right there with the devolutions. The model we have sought there, together with all the levels of government, suits every level of government well. I think that we are doing well to tackle this big issue, this great challenge for Dutch society together.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u42	I said yesterday that many municipalities in the Netherlands are being put under pressure and that they are formulating it as such. The municipal authorities say they feel pressured by the COA. They are told on Monday afternoon at 5 p.m. that a few hundred asylum seekers are arriving and have no way of doing anything about it. The COA seems superpowerful. It is not only being forced on the municipal authorities, but it is also felt by many citizens. Last night, a very large part of the inhabitants of Otterlo said they did not want asylum seekers. There will be a vote in The Hague tonight, but there will be no vote; it will all be under the hat. That's a widely-behaved feeling. I need a bit of a run-in, Mr. Chairman. Many people seem to lose faith in local democracy. Does the Minister recognize that sound?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u43	There is no denying that it creates tension when a greater flow of asylum seekers is emerging in Dutch society than in previous years. Yeah, that's exciting, and I recognize that, too. I would add, however, that, strictly speaking, the Empire is still called "technically" instruments which have "placement" and all kinds of ways of actually forcing local government to do things. My aim is not to use these instruments, but to do so in good consultation with local government. My experience so far is that people are prepared to do so because they feel that responsibility. That's how I started. First of all, we are trying to limit the influx into Europe through reception in the region. Secondly, we are trying to divide the influx in Europe equally. This could mean that more people are coming to France and perhaps less to the Netherlands. Thirdly, we do not let people sleep on the streets. That is not good for anyone, not for the people themselves, nor for public order. We will have to take responsibility for this. This is how it is experienced by local government.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u44	Mr Bosma, briefly. We know you can do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u45	Technocratic may be right, but look at Otterlo last night: the people are against it massively and the municipality is ahead of it. There is an increasing gap with the citizens who always thought that the city council was their friend, but who find out that the city council is their enemy. That does not happen in one place, but in many places. People lose faith in their local government. That's not their friend anymore. It's their enemy. That's how they see it. This can have major repercussions for public administration in the Netherlands. The Minister says: well, whatever?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u46	No, I'm not saying that. I have just said that I recognise that this can create tensions in local societies. I don't recognize that the city council is now perceived as an enemy. That wouldn't be right, but neither is my image.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u47	In particular, I hear the Minister giving a number of procedural answers about management tables and administrative consultations. It's really good that that happens. It is good that the Minister is talking to the various directors. I also asked a number of other questions yesterday. Look at the huge influx that is taking place now and at the trouble it takes to find places where people can be caught. What does that mean for society? What does that mean for municipalities? Can municipalities handle this? Where are the challenges? When should the Minister at some point say: I do not know if it is still feasible? What does it mean in concrete terms? I would like a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u48	I have already said that to Mr Bosma: that puts the pressure of course on local societies. People worry and don't know what its consequences will be. A sensible local government - that we have to a large extent in the Netherlands - is faced with this and deals with it in a sensible way. So I recognise that pressure is there and that it can cause tension. At the same time, I would like to point out that we have good local governance that deals with it in a sensible way. We had a session at the Tower the other day with the Commissioners of the King and mayors. It's been a few weeks; it's been reported as well. When we were back in the Trêves room, we said to each other, "God, what good local government we have. People say: you can say all kinds of things and we want to talk to you later on about the costs. That's all so. But now it's all hands on deck. I really appreciate that vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u49	I hear the Minister say it causes tension. I think we all see that. However, there is a follow-up question. If you look at the numbers that are coming in now and you are going to calculate what that means for the number of status holders that we may have to accept here for a longer period of time, the question is what this means for the follow-up steps. Can municipalities handle it? Does the minister say to municipalities that they should just do it and that he perceives it as it is? Is it possible that there will be a moment when this Minister also says that we might have to think about further steps in losing out what we can and can't offer?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u50	I keep my finger on what municipalities can handle as responsible for local government, but I don't do that on my own. I have just painted that one conversation is being held together with the Minister of Housing and Rijksdienst and the other with the Secretary of State of V and J. So we are doing this together. We have several ministerial committees that meet each week, both to discuss the level of influx and the level of implementation of local measures. In this commonality we will have to constantly see whether it can be done in this way and where there is the bandwidth within which we can act. It remains that I realize a not very specific answer, but there is also no number to be attached to it. In the end, it is a weighting that we must achieve in the cabinet collective. That therefore transcends the portfolio of BZK alone. I think I can move on to the third issue. As I said, the biggest change in domestic governance since the Second World War is the major decentralisation. This afternoon I had a directing table with several mayors, representatives of the VNG and the departments. In this case, Secretary of State Klijnsma was there. Secretary of State Van Rijn, I believe, was in a general discussion. I'm sitting in front of the director's table, which is also being prepared by the State Department. Mrs. Voortman asked me when I would be in charge as a minister. The direction rests with BZK, which is without prejudice, of course, to each of the portfolio holders in the fields of youth care, care and social security. Let me explain. A year and a half ago, there was a great deal of concern about whether this route would be completed at all. I remember three things that were said. The first was that the municipalities would never succeed in organizing the necessary partnerships to get these tasks. The second was that it would never be possible for the Empire to abandon these budgets from the municipalities. You will see that there is too much pressure from the House of Representatives to put all shots in again, was said. The third was that you would see that the Empire would not be willing to let go of it and to really lay the responsibility, including the policy responsibility, at that other level of government, at the municipalities. We have now passed the date of 1 January 2015. In fact, these partnerships are now there. They were set up in good consultation with the VNG. That missed budget is there. There are still some grumblings about asking for reports, but there is no doubt that responsibility has now really been placed with local government. It wasn't thrown over the fence. We have those high-frequency control tables. Those director tables are responsible for the social domain task force chaired by Han Noten. It constantly buzzes around the country to see if things are going well and signals at the direction table if things are not going well. This is gonna be a trajectory, so we're not done. This is gonna take years. I recently visited Denmark with Secretary of State Van Rijn, where seven years after the major decentralisations there is still work to fine-tune the matter and make improvements. So it's far from ready. The biggest task for the coming year will be next. I'm gonna use some jargon. I apologize for that. The transition has now taken place. So the task has passed from the Empire to the Church, but the transformation, as they call it in the jargon, the integral that offer care, is far from ready everywhere. The municipalities will have to work on this over the coming months, years. We will provide assistance from BZK where we can.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u51	Regietables, task forces, flying brigades. It will all be, but the aldermen say the alarm clock and say, "We don't have enough money for home care, youth care, support for disabled people and people looking for work, and poverty reduction. We have gaps in the budget. We don't have the money for it. And if we have partnerships, we have nothing more to say about it. We must abandon our citizens or drop a gap in our budget. And then we also have to cut a billion dollars from the government. It can't be!" What does the Minister say to the aldermen who say they can't?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u52	I'll get to the finances and the letter the aldermen offered. I would have identified that as a separate block. At an earlier stage, it was indeed pointed out that these partnerships, which are called common arrangements, worked inconveniently because their accountability cycle was unfortunately coincident with that of the municipal budget. As Mr Van Raak knows, we have amended the law so that the municipal administration knows in good time what should happen in these common regulations and can take them into account in its own budget. We have often had the debate here that common rules are always sub-optimal when it comes to democratic legitimacy. After all, every municipality sends people there. So you're gonna get a kick-ass responsibility. The alternative to a common scheme of five municipalities is to make it one municipality. I have heard Mr Veldman speak in favour of this. Sometimes congregations do that, too. We support them in that. I am not putting that in the way, quite the contrary. But they're gonna have to do it by themselves. I am now filling in Mayor Noten van Dalfsen, who said: we have 15,000 inhabitants; we manage to do so as an autonomous municipality; we work together neatly on the tasks for which it is necessary. If that is the view of the city council, then I agree with it and accept it as a minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u53	From VVD and PvdA the entire board had to be turned upside down and there were all municipalities with 100,000 inhabitants. After two weeks, I think it's decided that's crazy. Then the one billion cut was continued. Aldermen say, "It is one or the other. How is it possible that we have to implement the government's policy of making substantial cuts - 40%, 30% - and that we will also get an additional cut of 1 billion?' No one understands that. I also asked the representatives of the Labour Party and the VVD yesterday. They didn't have a story to tell, except that it was already agreed. What's the Minister's story? How is he going to explain that these municipalities have to cut an extra billion dollars because of poor government policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u54	Mr Van Raak will be able to ask that question twice, because I will be dealing with the finance in a moment. He's put it twice now, but I'll answer it. The question does give me the opportunity to remove the myth contained in the government agreement that the government would force all municipalities to merge up to 100,000-plus. That's never been in there. There was a somewhat woolly text about a long-term perspective where the municipalities would eventually grow to a larger scale. At that time, we were asked in the very first debate: are you going to impose it from above? It was said from the cabinet: no, that is not the way we run the Netherlands, but we are going to remove obstacles. I now note three years later that the net number of municipalities has decreased by 30 and that there are still a number of reclassifications on the list. This is an autonomous process that has been going on for many decades. I'm sure you will.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u55	To get it very clear and sharp, the letter with the distress call of the aldermen simply has to do with the fact that the coordinating minister has been deafeningly silent, with interim adjustments over and over again, with instability and with the unpredictability of the situation. If the task force had seen that, the minister should have called. If they did see it and the minister heard that call, he should have done something. Now I would like to hear very clearly from the Minister that from now on there will be no more interim adjustments, that there will be no more instability and unpredictability and that it will be in line with the budgetary cycle of the municipality.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u56	I'm about to come up with that in the finance block.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u57	This isn't so complicated, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u58	It's not.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u59	I don't think it's complicated at all, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u60	Exactly. I agree. You agree with me, fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u61	Mrs Koser Kaya, I would ask you to put it briefly. That sounds pretty clear to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u62	Mr President, it is very clear. I want an answer to my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u63	Mrs. Koser Kaya, I understand that. You will receive an answer to your question. If the Minister says he'll come back to that later, he'll come back to that later. That's up to the Minister. This debate is far from over.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u64	If I have understood correctly, I have been asked to take up the fluctuations and the cuts on budgets. That is part of the fourth block on the municipal finances including the letter from the aldermen about it. In that context, I would like to come back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u65	In that letter from the aldermen there is one point on which I am deeply concerned, namely that this whole transition also endangers the quality of life. Then we're talking green and roads in the municipality. Is that what the Minister is worried about? And what's he gonna do to prevent that and reassure those aldermen?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u66	These decentralisations are not at the expense of livingability. I make a great deal of work visits to municipalities, especially to municipalities where this jargon transformation has already taken place once again and where one person is no longer sold, but where one person comes home from the neighborhood care and says: how are you and what could we do to make your life better? The task of the government is to ensure that behind that one district nurse all specialisms are present, but you do not get six people in one household with all their own forms to be filled out. The fact that it has been implemented and organised in this way, as I say to my social-democratic friends, is also what the Labour Party wanted, because sometimes it almost pretends to be a concession to the coalition party. I am speaking on behalf of the cabinet, of course, but I actually note that this is directly derived from the election programme of the Labour Party. It was the intention to get rid of that national secluded form care and go to a situation where it can be customised and where someone comes home to people to make sure that people get what they need. Municipalities have always said that they can do so in a more efficient and therefore cost-effective way. The first objective is, of course, to improve the quality of life. I'm not saying it's all gonna be okay in one go. We will be working for years in consultation with the municipalities to ensure that everything is finely arranged and that everything is properly set up, so that that improvement in livingability is realized.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u67	I understand what the Minister is saying, but I am concerned about that statement from the aldermen. They say: yes, but we can only spend every euro once, and we must also make cuts in places where we do not want to. In that context, they refer to livingability, roads, greening and that sort of thing. The minister says he doesn't come across that at all. So what the aldermen are saying, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u68	No, I'm not saying that. Of course, this cabinet has also made substantial cuts. It will appeal to Mr Krol that this happened precisely from the point of view of his party. As a result of the ageing population, the share of national income going to health care is increasing so much, that in 20 years time it will not be possible to do so. So we will have to do something to ensure that we keep that same level of care for people who need it. That is why, in the end, care has not been cut back, but less has been started. It has been a major austerity operation that has affected all the departments and all the tasks and has brought the budget back to some balance. However, that has not happened painlessly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u69	Youth care, the Participation Act, household care and I can go on for a while, has certainly been cut back considerably. My question is about the scaling-up discount. In response to Mr Van Raak, the Minister just pointed out that the government agreement never stated that it was intended that municipalities would scale up to 100,000-plus. However, that 1 billion was very hard in the coalition agreement. That is also confirmed by the Minister in his written reply. Then what was the purpose of this austerity?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u70	I'll be back in a minute to finance. I'd be happy to.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u71	This is the block the minister himself brought up, the scaling-up discount. I would like to comment on the aldermen's letter in the next block.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u72	This also refers to the scaling-up discount.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u73	The Minister has clearly communicated in advance that the block of finance is still coming. If you don't get your question answered right away, I'll give you extra space. I propose that we follow the order proposed by the Minister and against which the Chamber has raised no objection.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u74	I'll hold you to that, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u75	Very good. Mrs Van Toorenburg, who is concentrated and back.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u76	Indeed, Mr President, and I would like to remind you immediately of another committee in which I once had a share. I'm referring to the committee that was investigating the transition of youth care. There was at that time the need to leave youth care with the municipality, because it was intended to be tailor-made. We now sometimes see youth services being poured into public procurement, sometimes even European, which makes it impossible for the contracting party to talk to the municipality where the needs lie. I would like specific attention from the Minister to this because he has the coordinating role in the transitions. Maybe he can send a letter to the Chamber on this, because it's really gonna get tight. We pour it into a mess so that there can be no communication with the questioners and no customization can actually be delivered by definition.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u77	I'll admit it. I shall raise it first at the management table, because I have just spoken about it and do not think it is self-evident to answer it now alone. Partly on the basis of the discussion we are having on this subject, I will report to the Chamber on how things stand.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u78	Fine. In Eindhoven, a European call for tenders was launched, but no decision was taken this year. Other municipalities think about it, so there's quite a hurry.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u79	Yeah, that's a promise. Now for the long-awaited topic of municipal finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u80	Just a moment, Mr Veldman first.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u81	Colleagues wanted to talk about finance so quickly that I thought the Minister was going on about decentralisation. Turns out he's done with that already. Yesterday, I expressed my concerns about the way municipalities handle privacy. I see examples passing by, which I do not think are right. In the written reply, I read that the Minister says that the municipalities are on the right track, but that the necessary attention is still needed. Do I have to understand that the Minister says: it's all in order, but some things go wrong here and there, and we need to focus on that? Or can I read out that things aren't in order yet and that they require extra attention? Are you okay or are you not okay?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u82	I'm not gonna start with glasses that are half full or half empty. The second is the case. I still see too many situations that I think are all well-intentioned, but in which perhaps I am exaggerating a little bit now, for example: we are making a spin-out of ggz, of youth care and of this or that, and that puts people in a good position to sit at the kitchen table in exactly the right way in a family and to help people. That is well-intentioned, but it may be information that is sensitive to privacy and that has never been intended to be shared without the consent of the data subjects. The majority of municipalities act independently and do not need to do so in such a broad way. These municipalities can indeed ensure, within the framework of existing laws and regulations, that they offer this kind of care tailored to their needs. We have also made a hand-out for the municipalities. We draw the attention of the congregations. If the task force signals that things are not going well somewhere, we'll ring the bell there, too. This is not in order everywhere, and that is a serious concern. By the way, the College's protection of personal data is also calling the bell. The College sometimes goes further in the conclusion and states that it cannot be done this way at all without a legislative amendment. I am not that far, because I also see many examples of municipalities that, in my perception, within the law as we now have, are able to provide adequate care.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u83	Secondly, I did say that things are not going well and that calls for extra attention. In the written reply I read that there will be workshops and that there will be courses to guide people in them. That's good. I think that's what happened anyway. What additional actions has the Minister taken at the time when he also observed that things are not going well?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u84	The Vereniging van Nederlandse Gemeenten is our first point of contact, but since we have the director's tables, we have put privacy as an item on the agenda. What complaints are coming from the field? What alerts are there to make mistakes? What can we do to assist the municipalities to stop making these mistakes? I have already mentioned it on my own initiative in the debate in the Chamber as one of those points on which we sometimes consider lightly and which still need to be worked on in practice. I come to the letter from the more than 200 Aldermen of Finance. Before I got this wallet, I was the Treasury spokesperson in the Chamber. I was in the city council once. So they're all very sensible and quiet people that you don't get crazy soon. If the two hundred of them are ringing the bell, they didn't all come at the same time, you know, there's really something going on. Let me take two main points from the letter: firstly, the issue of fluctuations and the system in them and secondly, of course, the issue of the budget in general and the scaling-up reduction that was mentioned earlier. I'll start at the point of the fluctuations. We now have a staircase-on-strap-afsystematiek. I looked into that again today. Every time it goes up or down a part of the Empire's budget that is relevant to determining the staircase-on-trap-afsystematiek, the Municipal Fund goes up or down. I believe that this year's budget has been adjusted 13 times. Not all of that happened this year. Sometimes it happens in advance. We already have a forecast of the budget for the year 2019 and that is not the first forecast. There have been previous forecasts and adjustments. They are constantly updated. This system has been decided in consultation with the municipalities, prior to the start of this cabinet period. You always have to put a system like that in place for a couple of years. You can do it in different ways. You can estimate economic growth for the entire cabinet period and, on that basis, draw up a plan for the growth of the Municipal Fund with a score of 1.5% per year. Then everyone knows what he's up to. If it turns out that the development of the Empire's budget is disappointing, the municipalities are lucky. And if it turns out to be rising faster than expected, one will of course think afterwards: we would rather have had the stair-on-strap-afsystematiek. We have had the stair-on-strap-afsystematiek in years of growth and of course the municipalities were content with it, because in the spring, the August decision-making or the autumn note showed that there was a certain accres on top again. That's a few hundred million more soon, in this case. If, however, it goes the other way, it is, of course, painful. What can't be said in times of growth is "take it down the stairs" and when it's a year off "do another system." Then it can't be over. So you have to record for a number of years what the best system is. When this was chosen before my time and before the start of this cabinet period, it was said to municipalities from BZK: do you realize that this can lead to fluctuations if you link this permanently one-to-one. At that time, however, it was decided jointly: be it so, we want to remain one-on-one linked to the development of the national budget. This was also explicitly the wish of the municipalities. We are now in discussion with the Working Group on Standards System to see whether this would be the best system for a subsequent cabinet period, or whether it should be chosen for the more or less in advance fixing of the growth rate. The intention is to draw a conclusion on this in spring 2016. That conclusion will, of course, be shared with the Chamber. The system decided upon will then be able to enter into force as from the next cabinet period.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u85	If the minister talks with the VNG, would he also like to talk to the association of supervisors in the care sector? They are the ones who ultimately have to carry out the arrangements to be made by the municipalities. It'll be pushed through eventually. I'm allowed to be a supervisor myself, and I have no idea what's going to be my healthcare organization's budget next year. I can't take responsibility for that. We lay down heavy responsibilities with supervisors. They see now that things are going wrong. So can the Minister promise that he will not only talk to those who get the money, but also to those who then depend on it, precisely for the purposes of decentralisation? The care organisations must be able to work with this. They should not be surprised by their budget every time too late. For let me, President-in-Office, then they have less money and they have to fire people, and then comes the FNV, which says: that is not allowed. Yeah, so what?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u86	In your absence, I said that we were going to do the interruptions briefly, Mrs Van Toorenburg, so I will say that again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u87	I'll cut it in half if you don't mind. That working party has already started, so I cannot change its composition now. The working group consists of the fund managers that are Finance and GDPR the VNG and the IPO. In spring 2016, that working group will report the findings to the Administrative Consultation Financial Relations. I understand that Mrs Van Toorenburg says that this cannot be the last word. After all, it is only a report on the findings of that working group. Before it is concluded, the other parties must also be heard. I think that would be wise. I can add that a decision on the best system has to be taken before the new cabinet period begins.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u88	This is a bit simple, to be honest. It's a kind of "hang yourself" principle: we agreed at the time, so that's all we need. Anyway, now there's gonna be a working party, as the minister just pointed out. We shall await the conclusions of that. The biggest problem that the aldermen rightly point out in the letter of fire is, of course, the uncertainty factor. You cannot plan and then your budget system is wrong. How could you remove that uncertainty factor, in particular the time when a circular is brought forward, so that it becomes much clearer? This will enable municipalities to respond much better, for example through mid-term budget reviews.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u89	This uncertainty arises one-on-one from the decision to link the Gemeentefonds directly, step-by-step, to the budget of the Empire. Every time the Empire spends a little more, municipalities say they go up with them. That means they'll come down with us, too, if the Empire goes down. The solution for this is to replace the direct, short one-on-one coupling, the step-on-step systematiek, with another systematiek. It's like a mortgage; I don't know if Mr Klein has a mortgage. With a mortgage, you can secure the interest or not. This has both advantages and disadvantages. That depends a little on the future, but we don't know it. I could very well imagine that for the management of the municipal finances you would opt for a system whereby you put it more firmly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u90	It's not so much about locking up or not. That's another discussion. I'm more concerned with timing. With a mortgage, I'll hold the interest for a few years. I know the interest rate can go up one time and down one time, but I can't respond to that. The problem is that local authorities will have to make adjustments in the current financial year at once, but they are difficult to increase in the meantime. Municipalities have no alternative at such a time to receive anything. How can you ensure that the negative effects and the positive effects of the step-on-step system are mitigated, so that it remains planable and no unnecessary burden on citizens?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u91	You can do two things. Either at the start of a cabinet period you can agree a fixed ecrin and say that they will have to do it with 1.5% each year. Or you can look for a system with, for example, a reference date in the spring where the municipalities will have to deal with it. If it turns out that the Empire will spend more that year, this will no longer be added to the Gemeentefonds according to the stair-opsystematiek. In fact, I am already doing so in the work of the working group. You may also be able to invent mixing forms, but this is exactly the kind of thing that the working group is currently working on. I recognize the problem of one-on-one coupling. It does give rise to fluctuations.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u92	I had just asked for the one-billion-dollar scale-up discount.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u93	I'll get to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u94	Are you gonna come up with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u95	This was the first topic.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u96	I thought the minister was at the end of his block, but apparently he hasn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u97	I have tried to say that there are two main issues in the aldermen's letter. One subject has to do with the fluctuations. That's what we've been talking about. The other subject is the budget and the discount that took place on it. I'm going into that now. At the start of this cabinet period, some major cuts have been made, together several tens of billions. One of them was the savings on the Municipal Fund. It was motivated with a slightly woolly text. The idea was that such a reduction could be achieved through more efficient cooperation and scaling-up in the municipalities. With Mrs Voortman on top of this, I cannot fail to point out that such discounts on the Municipal Fund were also provided for in the election programmes of GroenLinks and the SP. It was therefore no big surprise that this discount was fixed at the time. Moreover, the government agreement states that the financial mandate is leading, even if an underlying measure is not implemented. So there's the discount. That discount is not extremely high in this cabinet period. It rises to 180 million in 2017. That remains to be seen in the total Municipal Fund of 30 billion. But the concern of the aldermen is, of course, that this reduction is included in the multiannual picture in the budget under unchanged policies, in the basic path. I understand that concern very well. In the base path, that discount goes by another 800 million. So the concern of the municipal authorities is not so much how this is going within this cabinet period. Their concern is more that there is, as a sort of a firefighter, a discount of 800 million, if no one does anything after this cabinet period. So I hear their plea not only as a message to me, but also as a message to the Chamber I actually have to say: the future Chamber to babysit, because this discount is in the basic path. So if a future cabinet still takes budget decisions, don't forget the municipalities. My colleague from the Defense Department sometimes emphasizes: don't forget the army. As the Minister of the Interior, I understand the appeal of the aldermen as well: if decisions are still to be made, don't forget the municipal administration. But, of course, I can do nothing from this position at the end of this cabinet period.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u98	I would first like to respond to the Minister's comment on the GroenLinks electoral programme. The GroenLinks election programme says that we think it would be better if we went to larger municipalities. That's right, and we're also linking it with a financial picture. But the difference with the cabinet is that this cabinet doesn't say it even more: the minister denies even that the cabinet would want to scale up to larger municipalities, but that it will then stick the financial picture on it. So what's the purpose of the 1 billion cuts on the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u99	First of all, it is a novelty for me that GroenLinks would like to advocate a merger from above in the...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u100	Mr President, the Minister must listen carefully. I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u101	But I heard Mrs Voortman say that GroenLinks also has that measure in her election programme, and the corresponding cut in the budget. The difference with the government would only be that the government does not want to impose it from above.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u102	No, Mr. President, the Minister isn't listening very well. The difference is that the minister indicates that the cabinet has no plans at all to encourage municipalities to merge. That's the difference. The cabinet has no plans to scale up, but has planned a huge cut of one billion. That's the difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u103	What is your question, Mrs Voortman?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u104	My question is: if the cabinet does not intend to consider whether municipalities can scale up, what is the purpose of that 1 billion cut?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u105	I do not understand what the difference is with the GroenLinks electoral programme, which includes this austerity and that measure. It seems that it is not the intention to impose it from above either. Actually, we're doing 100% what it says. The purpose of the cabinet is therefore exactly the same as that contained in the GroenLinks election programme.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u106	What is the purpose of the 1 billion cut? So the goal is for municipalities to scale up. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u107	No, and I think I've said that before. The aim of the financial paragraph of the coalition agreement was to make the much-needed cuts. We don't do that with pleasure; it's no different. The cuts are also difficult to implement on parts, and I fully understand that. I have also just said that the aldermen point out that, even after the end of this cabinet period, there is still a substantial, future austerity in the basic path. I fully understand that they want to draw attention to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u108	Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u109	Mrs. Voortman, I've just given you some space. You've been interrupting in three, because you've waited a very long time. But we agreed to interrupt in two. The Minister has given you an answer. You cannot be satisfied with that, but you will have a second deadline to respond further.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u110	The minister didn't answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u111	The Minister did answer the question. We've all heard that. You cannot be satisfied with that; I cannot judge that. But the Minister has given an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u112	I'd like to build on this. In the General Political Reviews I had the same discussion with Prime Minister Rutte. I assume the cabinet speaks with one voice. The Prime Minister said that the scaling-up discount was clearly an incentive for municipalities to scale up. The aim of the cabinet was therefore to achieve a discount and actually achieve the scaling-up. So it is not just a vulgar cut in the Community fund, as the Minister suggests. According to the Prime Minister, it is an incentive arrangement to encourage municipalities to merge. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u113	Indeed, in the coalition agreement, this austerity was supported by the idea that it could still be a little more efficient with the Municipal Fund, for example by achieving economies of scale and by administrative cooperation and administrative reclassification. From the local authorities it was said that we do not want to achieve this from above and we are very capable of organising economies of scale in other ways, for example through official cooperation or sometimes even administrative mergers. At that time, the cabinet said: that is up to you, but that discount stands, so if you want to achieve it, you will indeed have to work in an efficient way. That's, you could say, an encouragement. You can also say: it is a necessity. That discount is there and we will have to deal with it in an efficient way. In fact, I am saying the same thing as the Prime Minister in a different way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u114	As far as I am concerned, it is completely clear, also in response to what Mrs Voortman said. The only reason for this scaling-up reduction is to ensure that municipalities scale up, and this is now being reduced. That seems perfectly clear to me. By the way, I have just tabled an amendment to remove this scaling-up discount. After all, we just adopted the Tax Plan. There was a cover problem, but now we can get extra money and we can get rid of the scaling-up discount. I'll give you that. Perhaps the Minister will be able to deal with this later in the assessment of the amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u115	That's what the Minister will do.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u116	Yes, I will. But I would like to warn that the political reality was, and perhaps will be, that it is soon to say "government" when asked whether to cut down on subject a, b, c or governance. I have just deliberately mentioned a number of non-coalition parties, because many political parties had these large discounts. I'd like to warn you about that. Sometimes it looks like: take some away from the provincial houses and town halls. But if you look closely, you will see that most of the money from the province goes to nature and roads, and from the municipality to the care for a sensible living environment. My appeal is that parties should have that in mind if they are to draw up electoral programmes in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u117	The Minister's in a very good mood. The difference is that this minister himself has chosen not to scale up. Then you have to be consistent in that too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u118	That wasn't a question. It was a cri du coeur.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u119	It's been noted. Mrs Koser Kaya's predecessor also called for this scaling-up to be imposed from above and for it to be compulsory. I respect that. That's a different choice from the government's.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u120	I think it's so weak of the Minister that he points to: you didn't either.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u121	No, Mrs. Koser Kaya brings it up...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u122	The Minister must respond to the inconsistency in his policy. The cabinet has chosen not to scale up. Then you must also be very clear and say: then we are not going to cut short.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u123	I've answered that before. And I have pointed out once again that it is important that this scaling-up does indeed take place without compulsion from above. Today there is a reclassification election for three municipalities in the Gooi, which are now working together. This has come about spontaneously. By the way, it has cost a lot of work, including from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u124	The minister has now come to the block of digital government.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u125	Mrs Veldman, Mrs Van Toorenburg, Mrs Oosenbrug and Mrs Koser Kaya have asked questions about this. Oh, sorry... Mr. Veldman. I believe that is the second time in two days, because yesterday he was also referred to as a lady by the President. Apologies. Let me say the following about the digital government. First of all, the main objective of the cabinet in the field of digital government is that from 2017 citizens and companies can arrange all matters digitally with the government. This includes achieving a full digital supply of public services, improving the quality of services, increasing their use and integrating public services from the user's point of view. I have drawn up a common implementation agenda with all public authorities and implementation organisations. All parties carry it out now. I'll inform the Chamber about that every year. This progress report will be sent to the Chamber this year. That might also be an opportunity to discuss it in detail. I would therefore add the results of the first monitoring of that GDI. The Court will also receive this year's policy review of the service and innovative government over the last four years. Last year, a National Commissioner for Digital Government was appointed: Mr Eenhoorn. Among other things, he has the task of achieving the financing arrangement for the Generic Digital Infrastructure. He's busy with that. I'll talk to him almost weekly. My official summit certainly speaks to him several times a week. I shall pass on to him the suggestion on the pooling of financial resources made by Mr Veldman. I'll report to the Chamber on what he thinks he can do with that. Mrs Oosenbrug spoke about the open data. I sent a letter to the Chamber about the active provision of public sector information. If I do, we will discuss this in general consultation on 8 December. In the meantime, I'm finishing up the National Open Data Agenda. I'll send it to the Chamber for that AO. So that's in the short term. In my budget, I am paying €820,000 for this. That's what was asked. In the area of these open standards, I work together with the Minister of EZ. Together we have established the Forum Standardisation that sets and promotes open standards. Municipalities are working on that, too. For example, the VNG has made open standards part of the municipal purchasing conditions. It is therefore being worked hard on all sides. Finally, I would like to say something about open data. I believe that it has finally been mentioned in the written reply. I didn't go hard enough to disclose the dates that lie with the departments. Together with my colleague, Dijsselbloem, I have launched a programme in which the trainees, the young staff of the departments who are not yet stuck in the permanent tracks, have made a tour of all departments, looking for files that would still be made public. Indeed, that proved to be more fruitful than fully informing from above down. I've informed the Chamber about that. This has resulted in another 500 datasets that have been made public.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u126	You've finished your block. Then I'll see who was first on the interrupting microphone. In case of doubt, ladies are allowed to go first. Mrs. Van Toorenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u127	Encouraging digitalization is fine, but we agreed it wouldn't be the only way? How could it have happened that only digital communications can be made available to the Tax Administration?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u128	I'm just trying to distinguish this. First of all, I agree with Mrs Van Toorenburg that the objective must be to ensure that the public authorities are fully digitally accessible. Just as you can make payments at your bank 24/7 from behind your desk, you should not have to take an afternoon off before applying for a parking permit, but you should be able to do so digitally. This is without prejudice to the fact that people who cannot do so do not lose their social rights. I think we have already discussed it with each other in a general discussion. I would find it too easy to say: if someone does not want it, he can always go to a window. The intention, however, is that this new technology should collapse as much as possible, as it once did from parchment to printing. I've also been to sessions. I remember the social service in Rotterdam.. where people apply for a benefit and were told: then you must have a DigiD. When people say they don't have them, they're told to apply for them. When people say they don't know how to do that, they don't just get a benefit, but they have to come back and get a course on how to apply for a DigiD and how to access their information. Those are two meetings, I think. That happens with the intention that people learn from it and have ease in the future that they can. That's step one. Then there's a rest group left. That sounds rude, I don't mean it like that. That leaves a number of people who are really not going to do that anymore. For that you have to make sure that someone is available, for example at the town hall, who says: it must be digital, but you are not going to do that anymore; I will walk with you, we will sit separately and then I will do that for you. That will always have to be possible. I'll give you a little longer answer. It has to be digitally where it can be. Where it cannot be done automatically, we should not accept it immediately, but first try to ensure that people will be able to do so in future. If that really is not the case, another solution must be chosen, just as Mrs Van Toorenburg says. The question about the blue envelopes is one for the Secretary of State for Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u129	And I'll take that question back to this minister. Would he like to discuss again with the Secretary of State for Finance why he forced this to happen? The CDA has voted against the idea that only digital communication with the Tax Administration can be achieved. The Minister had just promised the Chamber that communication with the government should always be possible in a different way. The Ombudsman indicates that it is not a very small group; do not misunderstand the Ombudsman. That group should also be able to go to the government otherwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u130	I get it, but I find it procedurally complicated. I also understand from the newspaper that this has been voted on and that there has apparently been a debate on it, in which the CDA has expressed views. In trade-K, my colleague was the Secretary of State for Finance. If the CDA wants to communicate with Mr. Wiebes, it's CDA man enough to do so. I don't think it's right for me to send a message. I answered the question. If there is a specific need for a debate on the Blue Envelope, I can imagine, because it is a very large-scale project that needs to be conducted with the Secretary of State for Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u131	The minister went through the "digital" block very quickly. I would like him to speed up and speed up with the digital agenda. I concluded yesterday that there is not enough momentum, that there is too much delay, that there is no progress, that it is not clear in the budget what the objectives are. We do read that there will be pilots, but things have to be settled by 2017. Do I hear the Minister say that he himself is satisfied with the progress, that there are still some reports coming to the Chamber and that things are actually going well? Or can the Minister imagine what I said yesterday, namely that I am not satisfied with the progress?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u132	That's a bit of a lose-lose situation. If I can imagine that Mr Veldman is not satisfied, then... If I cannot move in, it is not good either. We aim to reach the 2017 date for public access. In the specific field of eID we walk along a thin line. I have had discussions with Mr Veldman's predecessor on the border between public and private resources. At the same time, Minister Schippers and Secretary of State Wiebes want to introduce an eID from their portfolio as soon as possible. In good consultation with the Chamber, it was chosen not to do anything hasty and to start with pilots. If we complete it as soon as possible, then we can go through with it. My preference is to do it as quickly as possible with the eID. It's about electronic identification. That word has been replaced by Idensys, I believe. Anyway, it is about electronic identification in the long term as a successor to what is now called DigiD. I am trying to speed this up and I am experiencing the pressure of Mr Veldman, quite frankly, as a support because it is sometimes against the current in rowing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u133	I don't yet see how the sense of urgency in the minister's office is really on the retina. I would like to call on him to take a more explicit look at his own role in this and to launch some more specific actions in order to ensure that we also meet the objectives we have agreed with each other. The Minister mentioned my proposal, and indeed: would it not be wise to pool the available resources? I hear him say, however, that I will pass on this request to the Commissioner. I do not think that the Digi Commissioner determines how budgets are set up. I think it is the responsibility of this minister himself to make choices. Are we going to make the resources we spend on the digital agenda and open data bundled transparent or are we going to pool them further? That is a responsibility of the Minister and I ask him to take that responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u134	I'll take that responsibility, too. I don't know if it was BZK's only priority in the Spring Note+ if not, then maybe there was another one. I believe that there is an additional 100 million for the digital infrastructure. This has been done partly at the intercession of Mr Unicorn, our digital Commissioner. I did not appoint him for nothing, because I appointed him to be a driver with me in other departments and governments in this important area, precisely because I attach a high priority to it. Once again, I consider the call for further pressure and attention to be given to it as an encouragement. But that objective is, as far as I am concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u135	I come back to the question that was just asked by my CDA colleague. As I said yesterday, I am jealous that we did not vote against the cabinet's proposals. We were really convinced that the people who needed help would actually be helped by both the Tax Administration and the municipalities. Especially in my target group are people who are not helped by a lesson, but really need help. I had a large group of visitors this afternoon, and then it became clear to me again that a lot of municipalities are getting rid of it by saying, "You have to learn it. I'm sure you have a grandson or granddaughter who can do it for you. Otherwise, let the neighbor do it." When it comes to your tax records or personal situations, you don't want to let the neighbor do that. I therefore urge the Minister once again to make sure that municipalities treat the people who really have problems with them more publicly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u136	I have already promised that, but I would like to repeat it. I will indeed urge the municipalities to deal with this publicly. And again, on work visits, I see that there are counters where the digital road is not replaced by paper again, but says: "Walk with me. I have some questions for you and then I can make sure it gets into a digital channel." As far as the blue envelopes of the Tax Office are concerned, I really must refer Mr Krol to the Secretary of State for that matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u137	I would like to remind you once again, after that, that the number of complaints to the Ombudsman is much greater than we had anticipated. I hope you will take that into account and that you really want to change it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u138	I recognize that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u139	I have not been paying very close attention, but I do hear the Minister talking about the digitisation agenda and open data. I wonder if he's handled the open standards in this block or if he's gonna do it in another block. If he does it in another block, I'll hold off on my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u140	No, I think it was my intention to cover this part as well. I thought that I had already done so in writing. In case I didn't do it, I'll repeat it. In the area of open standards, I work together with the Minister for Economic Affairs. Together we have established the Forum Standardisation that sets and promotes open standards. The municipalities are also working on it. For example, the VNG has made open standards part of the municipal purchasing conditions. I would also like to thank Mrs Oosenbrug for the book she gave me yesterday through the President.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u141	I have read the written answers, but I was not quite satisfied with them, because it is indeed about the open standards. Today I was served, because Eindhoven, Woerden and Boxtel are going to place their own ICT in a cooperative. I very much welcome that. I'm also gonna go through those open standards. You can see that as a municipality it helps to gain more control over your own ICT. I had a question in mind, but I lost it for a while. At least it was about the following. The minister says he's talking to the VNG. I would say: take that idea from the cooperative and try to stimulate it. This is what I'm asking in the form of a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u142	I'll admit it. I don't know that article yet. I will take that up and see if we can take that as an example for others and do something with it. I'm gonna move on to topic six. Maybe we can do that briefly. This is actually a question from Mr Veldman concerning the abuse of the Public Administration Act. Without wanting to reopen this whole discussion here, I would like to say the following. We have previously had the debate on the initiative proposal of GroenLinks and D66 for the Open Government Act and on the other hand a proposal which was part of it but which I have also brought before the Chamber in parallel. That actually concerns a very small law, namely a law to close the abuse of the Public Administration Act. I myself was the one who suggested to Mrs Voortman at the time: would it not be good to make this part of the larger Act open government? At the same time, the law is still there. There's a lot of discussions about that. I'm gonna stay out of these discussions, but that law hasn't been passed in two or three weeks. It is urged from the VNG towards the Lower House, again recently, to simply adopt the repair law. It seems that everyone agrees with the spirit of this. It is not 'porem', as we said in The Hague, that people are deliberately and openly taking advantage of such a law to collect a penalty payment, which is clearly not the purpose of the law. That could easily be scorched by that law. Mr Veldman's question was what I would think if that repair law were to be dealt with quickly. I would be in favour of that. This brings me to the subject on which Mr Van Raak, Mrs Van Toorenburg and Mrs Wolbert have spoken, safe public tasks. We have recently had a general discussion on this subject. First of all, I would like to thank Mrs Van Toorenburg for the supportive words she has spoken about the Safe Public Task programme. The discussion does not focus on this, but specifically on the Safe Public Task Expertise Centre. That was supposed to be temporary. It was also agreed with the House of Representatives on previous occasions that it would be a temporary organisation, either self-absorbed or would no longer exist. On the subject of safe public tasks: this is firmly invested in a new organizational unit, Security and Governance, at BZK. So that's permanently in our organization. My conclusion is that we should simply do what we have intended. That centre of expertise has done interesting work. I've also looked at the program. There have been really useful meetings and some other things done, but there is no need to continue this as a temporary instrument any longer. I think that task is well invested in the Board and Security section of my department. This is in response to the questions put. Mrs Van Toorenburg has also tabled an amendment on this. So we do not need to discuss this further at the moment. Then I'll get on with the Small Core Association soon. This was discussed by Mrs Van Toorenburg and Mr Bishop. Mrs Wolbert also asked me for a commitment on this point. I actually want to make that commitment. That subsidy was also intended to be temporary. In the end, of course, we do not have a Association for Kleine Kernen, but a Association of Dutch Municipalities which must represent all large and small cores. However, there is still a specific task for this association, which has been well done. That grant ends. It is actually Mr Blok's portfolio, but I understood him on this. Next year we are talking about an amount of, I believe, €250,000. In consultation with Minister Blok, I can promise that I will invite that association to explain what it would do if it were to be extended for a further year. I need to know that first, because you can't just do that. That conversation, of course, is based on what Ruud Lubbers once called "a positive basic position." Then I'll report to the Chamber on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u143	That's good to hear. Those who have talked about this association and the grant know how important and inspiring the work that is being done there. I understand the Minister can't say here: we're about to. It's fine that there'll be a conversation about that. I am pleased to hear that this is both about the €250,000 grant and about the amount for next year. "Obviously," I'd say. At least now it is on the side of the Chamber in the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u144	Affirmative.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u145	Our financial spokesman always says: 'At least butter with the fish'. So I suggest that we take a look at the amendment with the ministry officials to make sure that we actually guarantee it. If there's money to go, it's got to come from somewhere. We have come up with a nice amendment to that effect. Then we can take a good look at the cover so we can do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u146	My suggestion would be not to do that, because I want to have that conversation first and I want to hear what the association wants to do with the money. Moreover, it is not my portfolio in the end, so I would like to give Mr Blok the opportunity to be convinced on this part of his portfolio that it is useful and necessary. Again, I have clearly stated my basic attitude. That's what the Chamber can rely on. So my suggestion is not to regulate it now per amendment. I hope that the Chamber will agree with the commitment I made.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u147	We are going to consider this for a moment, because until now this association has asked for a discussion itself; that request was not from the Ministry. I also know that unfortunately she received an answer: come back after the reorganisation. So it's not going very well. The confidence is not very great, while if I listen to him carefully, the Minister does have that confidence. Then it might be good to see if we can support the Minister through the amendment, to record it. It's not about a fortune.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u148	The influence of the association may not be that great, but the influence of the House of Representatives is. I have heard very well the first term, and it has convinced me to make this commitment to Mrs Wolbert and others.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u149	That is exactly what I wanted to say. I have now heard the Minister say three times that this €250,000 grant for the National Association for Small Cores is just going to happen. It may be an unusual figure, but against Mrs Van Toorenburg...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u150	No, we're not gonna do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u151	No. But it is good to say from here that if I hear the Minister making such an explicit commitment, I have the confidence, on behalf of the PvdA, that the Chamber has been properly listened to. The PvdA will not really support an amendment in this direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u152	This brings me to my ninth and last specific block at 6:05 p.m. After that, we can check whether there are any questions regarding the written reply. This block deals with the fine subject of the consultative referendum. The Chamber knows that there will be an advisory referendum, and I say it out of my mind on 6 April. Questions have been asked about the funding of this referendum and about what will happen to its outcome. I will answer both of these questions and come first to talk about the funding of this referendum. The consultation referendum organised by the government in 2005 on what was then referred to as the "European Constitution" cost EUR 23 million according to an assessment by Deloitte which was subsequently established. That was a few years ago, so now let it be a little more expensive. In any case, we have to think of that order of magnitude. In dealing with the initiative law on the consultative referendum, I referred to the Chamber as a similar figure; I believe EUR 25 million. That is also the budget that is now being made available: 20 million for the municipalities and 5 million for the referendum committee chaired by Mrs Van der Laan. This committee ensures that the referendum is managed properly at national level. There's also a part of the grant. This is a subsidy for civil society organisations that want to campaign for or against the referendum. That money will be distributed by the referendum committee; that is not what the government is doing. For the record, the government will not apply for a grant from the campaign commission. We assume that we have sufficient channels to give the opinion of the cabinet. The UNG has indeed said that it cannot know whether it can do it for this amount, because the cost of a full election of the House of Representatives is in the order of EUR 45 million. That conversation's still going on. Let me give some arguments; they have been specifically asked. I told the municipalities not to operate the full machinery on the autopilot like before the Lower House elections. I don't think that's necessary. You don't have those big bills to deliver at home. You don't have those forms on which you have to search within the SP list for Mr. Van Raak for a preferred vote. You have shorter rows, because it's a matter of a yes/no vote. Counting can be faster, so you need fewer people and you need less time in those polling stations. I think it could be more efficient. Suppose you have three polling stations at Lower House elections, for example in the city hall or at the station. Now it can be more efficient and the rows can be shorter. Then it may be possible that there is only one polling station, because everyone can find that way too. It is understandable that the municipalities say that it is a job and that they want to have the costs reimbursed. You might wonder what it matters because it's a one-time thing. However, it is quite possible that this is not a one-off event at all, but that there are many more such consultative referenda being held, especially now No Peil has made that app available so that you can easily organise that support electronically. I think that the Empire and the municipalities should make a difference. These referenda must be easily accessible and well organized, but we do have a duty to look in advance at how they can be organised without unnecessary cost. That conversation is not yet complete; we must have it. We must either agree in advance on how to finance it or make a procedural agreement: we are doing it now and then see if that was a real estimate and whether we can make an agreement on it in one way or another. It's still going on. I ask the Court to await this, particularly given the consideration I have just given that it is best not to do so last time. We must organise it properly and at the same time manage the costs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u153	The municipalities have indicated that they cannot do it for this money and that, for example, they cannot create enough polling stations. The Minister says that it is possible for that money and that it is not at all bad that there are not enough polling stations. The SP does mind if there are not enough polling stations. There must be a serious referendum. I think that this conversation with the municipalities is taking a very long time. What's taking so long? We can agree here that these are serious elections with serious polling stations and that there should therefore be a sufficient number of polling stations. That seems to me to be a good starting point for the Minister's discussion with the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u154	For the record: they are not elections, but it is an advisory referendum. That's something of its kind. There hasn't been that before. There has been a referendum once before, but that was a consultative referendum organised by the government. I have pointed out that this instrument may well be used regularly. That is why we will have to do so in a responsible and qualitative way, with sufficient polling stations so that everyone can reasonably cast their votes. If there is one polling station in a remote core, it must be there and stay. However, I would like to see if, if you have a polling station within seven minutes of walking in a certain municipality, it is difficult to walk within nine minutes. I am concerned that the referendum is genuinely accessible and well organised in terms of quality. I did see a message: if we have this budget, we can only open a quarter of polling stations. I find that difficult to imagine and would not approve of it. That's why we're still having that conversation. I'll get back to you on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u155	The minister says that elections are not the same as referendums. You have a ballot note and you have to put it in a bus in a polling station. This applies to elections and to referendums. There must therefore be enough ballots, enough buses and enough places to vote, polling stations. The Minister must quickly complete that conversation with the municipalities and ensure that there are enough notes, buses and polling stations. That's the job the minister gets and no further bullshit!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u156	The difference with elections is that in elections that big grey notes are delivered at home with all those endless lists of names, sometimes 50 parties with dozens of names on each list. People should be able to be assisted in the booth, for example, if they are poorly seen or cannot find it. There are possibilities for that. Finally, it all has to be counted, which, as we know, is sometimes quite a job. At this point, the route where yes or no must be ticked on a ticket, which does not need to be delivered in advance, is easier. I imagine that difference leads to a slightly less costly organization. Mr Van Raak's encouragement not to keep that conversation too long, I put it in my pocket. I agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u157	I want to give you something else. This is the first time. That is precisely why it is so important that it goes well, that it does not fail and that people are involved and cast their votes. That's why the budget has to be good. I would very much like to give the Minister the opportunity to shape that budget in that discussion in such a way that it will be sufficient. That $20,000 is just not enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u158	That is a statement, but I am not convinced of it in advance. I would point out that if we spend nearly 50 million per referendum and we get four per year, it costs 200,000 million structurally. Those are huge amounts of money. If that is useful and necessary and is a consequence of the way in which we have set up our system, it must of course be done. However, I think that we really need to look in advance to see whether this is really necessary. I don't think so. The number of polling stations at the last Provincial State elections........ was 1,500 less than the 10,000 that were before the Lower Parliament elections. And then nobody said, "Oh, now suddenly we don't have a democracy anymore." We can really take a good look at how that should be arranged.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u159	I'm glad the Minister wants to take a good look. My message to him, however, is that the first time it is a matter of care and that it is simply a question of success. I think it is important for the Minister to see that it is done carefully and that it is successful.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u160	I agree. However, once we have established that a referendum is going to cost x, it is also logical that in a subsequent consultative referendum, municipalities should call again and say: if it cost this last time, it must do so again. If we are going to do that x, then I think Mrs Koser Kaya too will agree with me that we should do so in a good way. A second question was asked about the referendum, namely the outcome. This is an initiative law, so it was not adopted on a government proposal. The government has advised neutrally on it. However, I am the guardian of our democratic system, and that means that I have only one task, and that is to ensure that everyone here abides by the law, including that the electoral process, the voting process, is tidy and the way things are going around it. In any case, that means that I have agreed in the Cabinet that if there are any substantive positions of the Cabinet in this referendum or in future referendums, I will not be the first to bear them. I am in a way more referee or organizer than party. Since this is an ex post consultative referendum, it is always a matter of proposals that have already been adopted by the Second and First Chambers. So, with one exception, it is always a question of what the government was for. So there will always be a situation in which a portfolio holder, a ruler, will defend why the government was and is in favour of it. My job will be to make sure that the trial goes smoothly. That also means dealing with the results. The initiative law, which was also established at the initiative of the SP, is very clear about this. If the threshold of 30% of the electorate is not reached or if it is reached and the majority votes yes and therefore agrees with the present decision, the law will automatically be passed. Then there's no rethinking. If there is a valid result and that is no then there must be a review, initially in the cabinet. Following this review, the cabinet may propose either to the Chamber to bring the bill into force or to reconsider and withdraw the result of the consultative referendum. Both these proposals will have to be dealt with by the Lower House and the Upper Chamber as if they were legislative proposals. The final word is thus up to the Second and First Chambers. Mr Van Raak asked what the government would do. I've outlined the scenarios. If a valid no-vote were to come out, that is, in particular, the scenario to which information is to be given, the government must reconsider the law, bring the result of that review here into the Chamber so that the Chamber reconsiders it and then brings it to the First Chamber. Those are the rules of the game. I'm gonna hold everyone to that. That's how I finished this block. The tenth block is, as far as I am concerned, a song without words, but perhaps the written answer will give rise to any remaining interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u161	Looks like there's a couple more questions. I think Mr Van Raak was the first to be on the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u162	I have a question about the Roemer norm, which we have set up. It states that no more than 10% of the total staff budget is spent in ministries on hiring expensive externalities, advisers, managers, consultants and so on. That was a great success, because until recently there were two ministries upstairs, including the Ministry of the Interior, but now there are six more. The Ministry of the Interior is at 23.3%. That's a long way from 10%. So I'm asking the Minister to make sure that all ministries just meet the standard next year. If we set a standard here, it is not without obligation, but it is hard.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u163	I have already replied in writing. The Empire as a whole meets that apparently named after Mr Roemer standard of up to 10% external hire. The Empire is 9.7% below it, most of the departments too. My own department is well below it as far as the core department is concerned, namely 5.6%. However, a number of agencies sometimes require the use of expertise in automation. It wouldn't be possible to employ all those people. You don't get away from doing it that way sometimes. This often happens not only for the benefit of BZK but also for the benefit of other departments. I really limit it to what is absolutely necessary. I will also continue to focus on a decline in external hiring at the agencies, but I cannot promise that it will melt away immediately next year. This would have unacceptable consequences for the formation there and therefore for the execution of the work, but the norm stands. That is what we are striving for.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u164	The purpose of this Roemernorm is not only to save money, but also to get a better government. We are talking about total staff costs. Not 1% or 2%, but 10% of the total staff costs may still be spent on consultants, managers and consultants. If it had been up to me, it would have been different. You can't be a decent, good government organization if you spend 25% of your staff on outsiders, can you? What about his own knowledge? What about continuity? What about your own responsibility?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u165	Let me take my own department as an example. I'm glad there's only 5.6% external hire for the core department. About 95% of the people are just stuck in the formation. Mr Van Raak now mentions two reasons: on the one hand the maintenance of knowledge and experience for the organisation, on the other hand good employership to the people who work there. If you just do your job well, at some point you also have the right to perspective and clarity about it. It is sometimes inevitable at these agencies that temporary people are hired to help set up a project. This is not always about consultants, but mainly about people with knowledge in the field of digital development. This concerns, for example, the Basic Registration Persons and such large automation projects. It would be impossible for the Empire to employ all those people permanently.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u166	I did not hear the Minister reply to my request during the finance block to come forward soon with the bill that makes it impossible for municipalities to impose precario rights on utility networks. Because that's getting out of hand. The Minister is working on that bill. I do not read any more about this in the written reply than: I will discuss this with the VNG again in the spring. That's a little skinny as far as I'm concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u167	Let me explain; thank you for the question. These precario duties amount to a total of 154 million. The specific part of those utilities is a hundred million dollars, I believe 110 million. I understand in itself that Mr Veldman says: if municipalities are going to do this differently, then it is difficult for those companies to understand, so you should really get rid of it. If you just stop doing that, then for the municipalities we have just talked about the financial pressure on those municipalities, EUR 110 million. You're gonna have to compensate for that somehow. You can't just say to a municipality: that's bad luck. The intention I had and still have, in a sense, is to include this in the plans for a major expansion of the municipal tax area, which Mr Wiebes and I have been working on over the past few months. Well, then you'll be working on a reduction of charges in the first place. It could be part of the 5 billion reduction in charges. You put that $100 million in there and then you make sure it's a decent package that anyone can live with. This will also cover the gap that will then arise, because you will then be given the space of the Minister of Finance to reduce costs of 5 billion. If you don't have that cover, you're suddenly back in the harsh reality of every day. If we stop this stream from the utilities to the municipalities, it will cost the municipalities EUR 100 million, and we will have to cover it somewhere. Then you can increase the ozb; a bill to that effect has been stranded in the past. This will end up with the citizens or businesses of such a municipality, but not with exactly the same citizens and businesses. One gets better and the other gets worse. Then there will be a great tumult. This year, therefore, I actually intended to make Mr Veldman and others happy by resolving this long-standing issue nicely as part of the expansion of the municipal tax area. So far, I have not found that there are majorities for this in the First Chamber and the Second Chamber. That brings me back to where we were and I have to try to cover that in a different way. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Ik kan niet anders dan zeggen dat ik toewerkend naar het bestuurlijk overleg over financiële verhoudingen in het voorjaar ga proberen om daar een oplossing voor te vinden, maar ik weet niet zeker of dat lukt.]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u168	Yesterday I asked for a legislative proposal to be sent to the Chamber as soon as possible. I did not say how the Minister should do that. I totally agree with him when he says you can't do that overnight. You will have to install a careful and good transition period. With such a transitional period, I can imagine that the Minister can still work on the bill. After all, he himself rightly says that if he wants to take it with him in an increase or change of the municipal tax area, we are still a little further. It cannot be the case that it will take another eleven years, on top of the 11 years since 2004, when this has been expressed in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u169	I think it's been 11 years, too. This illustrates how necessary it is to do it, but it also illustrates how complex it is. I believe that an earlier legislative process has already been stranded at the Council of State. That is why I had good hope of achieving it in the context of the extension of the municipal tax area. I haven't quite given up on that hope yet. So I think the plan that Mr Wiebes and I have put together, together with the VNG, is very interesting and sound. I would therefore prefer to see him find a majority in favour of this, perhaps this year, in the context of the cabinet's tax relief plans. However, we cannot break iron with hands. Another possibility is a bill with a growth path. I think that will have to be done anyway, but we still have the common task of finding cover for that. It may not be acute, because you will grow towards it in a few years, but you still have to agree on it, including the municipalities and perhaps with those utilities. I'll do my best.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u170	I asked a question about disclosure versus privacy. That is why I have come up with a proposal from my congregation. The Minister gave a somewhat evasive answer to that privacy question. After all, it would say: it is clear, there are already discussions. If it had been clear, I wouldn't have asked the question. In my municipality, they intend to do the following. If a citizen sends a letter in which he objects to something, his name and his name would then be made public, making people reluctant to do so. So, at some point, these objections are no longer being raised, and I think that is a bad thing. Then where is the balance between the privacy of the citizen and the Public Administration Act? Perhaps we should then discuss with the VNG whether municipalities could not be given better guidance or at least better explanation. Apparently, this explanation is not properly understood at the moment or does not reach the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u171	I cannot judge the situation in Mrs Oosenbrug's municipality. Let me say that I am taking this up with the VNG and that on the next occasion that I inform the Chamber on this subject, I will also take this point back. Is that how you're gonna let me promise?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u172	Yes, you may, if you do have a conversation and indeed do that hand-off. I also asked a question about the grip on ICT. The reports that I am asking for are different from those that the Minister's answer refers to. I am asking for reports which I believe were last sent to the Chamber in 1981. It's been a long time. This also indicates how long the Chamber has been struggling with ICT issues and the costs associated with them. We would like to know how the Minister will get a grip on ICT. We have also received this point from the Temporary Committee on ICT. This is only possible if you map all costs, including licenses, hire of externals and purchase of hardware. I know this looks like a lot of information, but it's information that every department should have, because it's the purchasing data. These should be easy to spoon. This is a different report from the one the Minister refers to in his reply. I ask the question again: is the Minister prepared to send this old report to the Chamber? Otherwise, I have a fine motion for it in preparation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u173	I did my best to answer about the right report. If it turns out that this is not the case, I want to do it anyway. I can't place it right now. If it's been so since 1981 that's the time of the Atari computers a long time ago. I'll check and when it's available and I can find it, I'll send it over. Should I need information to put me on the right track, I can find Mrs Oosenbrug.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u174	I just want to highlight the point of the local tax area. I think the answer, with all due respect, is a bit persistent. It concerns the observation that enlargement does not yet have the support of a majority of the two Chambers. I think that is a very economic answer. I now understand from the Minister that he continues to draw on it and to continue to come up with proposals that will lead to an increase in the local tax area. I have to say, of course, that this will happen under the simultaneous reduction of the state tax area. Is that a correct summary? Can I take that as a commitment that we can look forward to proposals in the coming year?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u175	That last addition just makes me unable to answer "yes" in full. Mr Bishop and I have a long history on this point, because he asked me about this three years ago. I said at that time that I intellectually share the desirability of extending the municipal tax area, but that I hardly see any chance of it. If you want to make that a big slide, it will lead to a point cloud of redistribution effects that you can only do so if you have enough balance space to pull up that whole point cloud enough to prevent large blows to the ground for people, organizations or municipalities. We agreed theoretically, but in practice it didn't work out. When the situation arose of perhaps some billions of burdens, I immediately told Mr Wiebes that there might be room to do so now. As part of the major operation, you may be able to achieve the expansion of the municipal tax area. To this end, we have set up a working group with people from the VNG, Finance and Home Affairs. I do not want to talk about it for too long, but I am very excited about trying to do this income redistribution neutral, to do it budget neutral and to do it burden-neutral. The latter means that citizens will pay less income tax and, on the other hand, the scope for municipal taxes will be increased. I would also like to be somewhat neutral about the division between municipalities, because of course you have rich and poor municipalities. With all these preconditions, we would have come to a reasonable conclusion. The fact remains that until now there seems to be no room in the Second and First Chamber to support such a proposal. In fact, there has yet to be any indication of whether there is room to support the relief at all. We want to go the same way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u176	When the Tax Plan fails, there will of course be a wonderful space to use that 5 billion just for this purpose. So that also offers opportunities. Thinking from odds is also an option. I would like to urge the Minister to continue to draw on this. At European level, the Netherlands has, in comparative terms, the smallest local tax area. The re-evaluation of local democracy is of great benefit. I could therefore imagine that the Minister's constitutional responsibility, commitment and enthusiasm continue to push and pull this. I would like to ask that as a commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u177	I'll do my best, but no one's kept to the impossible. And frankly, I think you can only do this as part of a larger review. Indeed, if you apply the slide sec, the experienced pain of the local tax levied will always weigh more heavily than the notice on the pay slip that some tax has been withheld. Then I do not quickly see parliamentary support for such a slide. So it really should be part of a larger programme.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u178	The Minister's reply on precario load on the pipes is still somewhat unsatisfactory. We have indeed made several proposals in the Chamber. Last year we adopted a motion calling on the government to do so quickly. And what do I see? The Minister makes a circular movement by calling it into the discussion on the extension of the possibilities for municipal taxes. The problem is that there are more municipalities involved as the legislative change takes longer. There are already 98, where rates are also rising. All this, of course, comes back to the citizens, because their water bill and their electricity bill are going up. So the problem is only getting bigger the longer it is waiting. It becomes more complicated by creating clouds around groups in relation to municipal taxes. As far as I am concerned, it is very simple: use the amendment that Mr Veldman rightly pointed out, make sure that it is there as soon as possible and let go of the whole debate on municipal taxes. Wouldn't that be a good idea?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u179	Mr Klein, this is about your last interruption, but I would ask you to do so less in future. This contributes to the clarity and speed of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u180	I hear Mr Klein joining Mr Veldman, so I refer to the answer I gave to Mr Veldman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u181	Yes, but that answer was cloudy: we wait for the working party to come up with something and then we go into consultation. No, the Chamber has expressly expressed its wish: we want this change of law as soon as possible; make sure that it is done. And that can be...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u182	What is your question, Mr Klein?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u183	So this was not a single answer to the question I asked. My question to the Minister is: can you actually actively implement this change of law, regardless of the other discussion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u184	However, that is the same question as Mr Veldman's. I therefore refer to the answer to that question, also with regard to the clock. Nor could I add anything new to what I said to Mr Veldman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u185	Good. Then we have come to the end of the first-term response by the Minister for the Interior. At the request of a few political groups, I shall suspend for five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u186	Mr. Chairman. The Minister keeps saying that cooperation between the secret services is good. Unfortunately, I have to conclude from the terrible attacks of recent times that this simply does not appear to be the case. There is enough information, but it is not sufficiently combined. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that perpetrators of recent attacks were often in the picture with secret services in Europe;]] [[noting that the Netherlands will become President of the EU;]] [[calls on the Government, during this Presidency, to make better cooperation between secret services a priority,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Van Raak. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-VII-24]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u187	The Roemer norm is meant to cut back, but also to get better governance. If ministries fail to comply with this standard, the administration is not in order. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a number of ministries still do not comply with the Roemer standard;]] [[calls on the Government to take additional measures to ensure that they meet this standard in the next budget,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Van Raak. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-VII-25]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u188	One of the problems in the ministries is that there are simply too many informers and communication staff working. We've had a lot of leaks lately. If we hire fewer treats, I think we'll get fewer leaks. We also see that the control of power is reduced by journalism. In the meantime, I think there are ten times more informers and communication staff than journalists. This is particularly true in municipalities. Many council meetings are held without any medium, only journalist present. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that for years there has been considerable savings in independent, regional journalism;]] [[noting that a 10% reduction in information and communication in ministries (about 60 fte) will bring about EUR 1 million;]] [[calls on the government, the number of information officers and communication staff in the ministries to be reduced by 10% and to invest money in regional news;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Van Raak. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-VII-26]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u189	Investing in the local news media? What does this mean? Should the government create websites and print local newspapers? This sounds like a plea for state media. We have to keep the state and the media apart, don't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u190	We have media funds, for example for journalists who want to do investigative journalism. Today, however, there is less and less of this, especially at regional level. Which journalists from regional newspapers and broadcasters, which regional media, have the time and space to conduct large-scale investigations into abuses, fraud and corruption? That's what funds are for. You can also put the money into a fund for regional journalism. People can then call on it or make a proposal to do so. I think that is a good idea: control of power, including regional control. Isn't that what the PVV should be supporting? A very strange conclusion, a strange conclusion to this debate, is that aldermen complain massively about the fact that there is really not enough money due to cabinet policy. Proposals have been made for reclassification and they have received 1 billion cuts. The need for reclassification is no longer there, so that policy has stopped, but the austerity continues. We have often seen the Minister do something like this, for example in reducing the number of council members and other proposals. Politically speaking, it is said: no, we do not, because that is not justified and that is why we do not want it. But the austerity will continue. That's pretty weird, isn't it? You can't run a country like that, can you? I can also put together a number of cuts and do not have a policy against them. But we can't run this country like this. Especially we can't deal with these local drivers like that. I would like a further response to that in the second term. I also asked the representatives of the groups of the VVD and the PvdA yesterday. They simply said: we do not understand it either, but it is in the coalition agreement. So I think this Minister should explain. Let's see if he can explain. The local drivers deserve that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u191	First of all, I want to say that I understand this subject very well. That's what I said yesterday. It's turned into a cutdown. Yesterday, however, I heard Mr Van Raak say that he would come forward with a proposal today to fix this. I don't hear him making a motion on that right now. Does this mean that he regrets that it is all very annoying and that it should not be, but that he himself has no concrete proposal to fix it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u192	My proposal is very simple. Cutbacks follow policy. Investment follows policy. If there is no policy, there should be no austerity or investment. I would then have to table a motion to ensure that, in future, austerity and investment are the result of policies. That is so obvious, however, that it would be strange to have to suggest that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u193	If Mr Van Raak took the view that it had to be repaired, it would have been chic if he had made an amendment. He could have indicated how the 180 million we are talking about can be repaired. He could have indicated where he would remove that amount and could have indicated that he would still give that amount to municipalities. I note, however, that Mr Van Raak is not doing so. So he beeps and barks a bit, but concretely he just agrees to what is happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u194	I don't know how I could fix it. That would be a little weird, because it's austerity that has nothing to do with policy. Whether you're going to reset or not, whether you're jumping high or low, whether you're jumping far or in the ditch, it doesn't matter. The austerity is there, because the government is now making cuts without a policy. How am I supposed to make policies to change that? This is a bit weird, but it's a problem the government itself created.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u195	Mr. Chairman. I have just tried to ask the Minister, at the time of interruption, to clarify what he sees coming upon us, society and the communities, in the context of the enormous influx of asylum seekers and refugees in our country. I believe it was 9,100 people in October, including family reunification. That is quite a lot and it therefore requires something of the resilience of society and the organisational capacity of municipalities. I have the impression that the Minister has responded to this mainly procedurally: he continues to consult and monitor within the common structure. However, I would like to ask the Minister again what he sees and feels about this. If he sees what happens and if he looks at how drivers deal with this and what they struggle with, what does that mean for the future? Could there be a moment when he says: I think the rack is out now? Can there be a moment when he says: we must take other steps than we are doing now? I come to the subject of privacy. The last letter we received as a Chamber on decentralisation was on 14 September. It talks fairly generally and neutrally about the privacy and protection of personal data within the three decentralisation tasks assigned to municipalities. I even note that the special task force set up for this last year, the Task Force for Governance and Information Security Services, has now been abolished. Today, I heard the Minister confirm answers to my question as to whether there are any problems with privacy. Those things don't rhyme so well. This doesn't fit well. I am therefore tabling a motion calling on the Minister to adopt a final approach. That motion is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[not yet noted that not all municipalities treat the protection of personal data carefully within the new areas of care that have been transferred to the municipalities in the context of decentralisation;]] [[noting that this means that information security is not in order in all municipalities;]] [[considers that the exchange and use of personal data should always be carried out on the basis of a good privacy regulation;]] [[calls on the Government to adopt a final approach with the VNG on the protection of personal data in municipalities in such a way that both the establishment of and control of the respect of privacy in municipalities is properly ensured,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Veldman and Mr Oosenbrug. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-VII-27]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u196	While I am hearing the signatory and co-signator of this motion, I think that perhaps it is the intention that they should submit it together. But I would very much like to say that I share this motion with all my love.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u197	Good, support is always welcome for the Minister's call for a final approach, because there are concerns and we will have to take them away. I come to the heading "finance." The Minister spoke about the current fluctuations in reporting to municipalities, because it is now going up and down. He has said that he is looking with a working group at how he can make improvements within the well-known staircase-to-strap-off system. That seems good to me, but I indicated yesterday that I do not think we are there with that. The Municipal Fund has had a number of rounds of major maintenance. I told you about that yesterday, I think the rack's out. We must take the step of revising the foundations of the Financial Ratio Act for both the Municipal Fund and the Province Fund. That review should contribute to making the fluctuations, the peaks and the valleys that we have now more manageable, precisely because we cannot do one more big maintenance because the rack is a bit out. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there have recently been greater fluctuations in the overall benefit from the Municipal Fund than previously, making it increasingly difficult for municipalities to draw up a budget;]] [[Whereas there has been twice the maintenance of the Gemeentefonds;]] [[Whereas municipalities have been given tasks in the past period;]] [[Furthermore, considering that disparities between urban regions are inevitable, but that the Financial Ratio Act does not at present provide the opportunity to facilitate differences in growth in a good way, whereas this is desirable in order to facilitate cooperation or to avoid undesirable competition;]] [[considering that the government is examining the possibilities of how insurers and municipalities can shift their budgets among themselves in order to enable substitution of care and support;]] [[considers that a fundamental revision of the financial bases of the Financial Ratio Act is necessary;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with the VNG and IPO administrative frameworks, to undertake a fundamental review of the financial bases of the Municipal Fund and the Province Fund, aimed at simplifying the system, and to examine how differences in economic growth between the different regions in the Netherlands can be facilitated,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Veldman and Mr Wolbert. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-VII-28]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u198	I would also like to talk about the precario under the heading 'finance'. I understand what the Minister is saying, because you cannot, overnight, abolish what a number of municipalities in the country are doing. You're gonna have to talk to each other about that. You will have to come to a careful transition period to make the undesirable current situation, which is a hidden tax that no one sees but needs to be paid, impossible. It's been under discussion for 11 years. I understand in itself what the Minister is saying, namely that he wants to take it with him in a possible revision of the municipal tax area. It would be very nice if we did. I note, however, that more than a year has been devoted to the Tax Plan, which was voted on this afternoon. Over a year there has been talk of a EUR 5 billion reduction in charges. You would think: if the cabinet put that proposal to the Chamber, everyone would be cheering on the benches and everyone would say yes immediately. Yet we have talked about it for a year, last weeks in this Chamber even 35 hours. This indicates that a possible extension of the municipal tax area will be delayed. I do not think we have time for that, because we see that year out of more municipalities take the step to provide the utilities networks with a tax. I therefore believe that we should speed up the process of making this impossible. It is undesirable that there should be such a disguised tax in municipalities. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas municipalities, provinces and water authorities still have the possibility to levy precario tax on the network structure of utilities;]] [[having noted that in particular there are more and more municipalities which levy this precario tax;]] [[noting that the utilities pass on this precario tax to residents and companies, making this tax opaque;]] [[calls on the Government, as soon as possible, to submit a legislative proposal to the Chamber abolishing this precario tax, with a large transitional period so that the local authorities which levy this tax can gradually absorb the possible loss of income,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Veldman, Mr Wolbert, Mr Van Toorenburg, Mr Van Raak and Mr Klein.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34000-VII-29]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u199	I come to the heading "digital." I have to say that the Minister still does not feel that there is a need for a little more speed and that the sense of urgency, as I have just mentioned, may be a little bigger. The Minister says he sees it as an encouragement and that sounds like he doesn't feel it very much himself. I want to make a comparison with what I asked for in my first term. At that time, I asked to talk to provinces again about a possible redevelopment of the central administration. The Minister replied in writing: I transferred Mr Van Oosten's request to the President of the IPO; so far this has not led to provincial initiatives. That sounds like: I've brought it there, I've thrown it over the fence, I can't get a reaction and I like it that way. That does not sound like the Minister himself is still actively working on it. Then I'll be back on the digital agenda. I want the Minister to have more heart for this matter, to take more steps, to speed up and to catch up with the delays we have experienced and to ensure that our ambitions are simply realized. One of the possibilities of doing so is to ensure a good understanding of what resources we have and where they stand. In his first term, the Minister indicated that he would submit the request to the Digi Commissioner. In my opinion, the Digi Commissioner is not about how different resources are made available to the Chamber. I think this minister has a responsibility there. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that public digital services are increasing;]] [[noting the fragmentation of responsibilities and financial resources across different departments;]] [[considers that pooling of available resources is necessary in order to ensure better coherence and guidance in public digital services;]] [[calls on the Government to examine, in the short term, the possibilities for pooling funds for the government's digital infrastructure and to inform the Court of Justice within six months,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Veldman and Mr Oosenbrug. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-VII-30]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u200	I'm on a final motion. It's also about our digital system, more specifically about open data. We are going to talk about this with each other. The Minister has now announced that for the AO about open dates, somewhere in December, that National Open Data Agenda will finally be there. Still, that doesn't reassure me. 'Cause what's gonna be on that agenda? In the run-up to that AO, therefore, I would like to give the Minister something, in the sense that he is going to ensure that we come up with a common framework of standards, so that not everyone is going to do their own thing, but that some directional commonality is created. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas public institutions have a lot of public information that we can use as open data;]] [[Whereas public sector information is not always available as open data, it is not always known that there are open data, that they are often difficult to find, that government institutions use different methods of unlocking, so that the open data is practically inaccessible and therefore no re-use is possible;]] [[considers that re-use of public public sector information is a good thing, as this information could lead to new investments that will once again benefit the Dutch economy;]] [[consider that open data should be readily available and made usable;]] [[calls on the Government to draw up a common framework of standards used by all public institutions, so that not every institution develops its own method,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Veldman and Mr Oosenbrug. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-VII-31]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u201	I come to one final point. I am pleased to hear that the matter will be put back on the agenda as far as the Minister is concerned, on my request that after the end of the discussion of the amendment of the Public Administration Act on the removal of the penalty payment, we should talk again and continue the debate. We have also stopped this debate at the request of the Minister. Let me look at my colleagues and, in particular, at Mrs Voortman, because we are setting this agenda together. We have stopped the progress of the debate because we were in a balance about whether Mrs Voortman's own-initiative proposal and now Mr Van Weyenberg or Mr Verhoeven of D66 should be dealt with first. I do not care, but I do want us to put one of the two proposals on the agenda as soon as possible. If Mrs Voortman says this week that her proposal can be discussed now, I am fine with that. If you can't, I want the Minister's bill to collect the penalty payment from the WOB as soon as possible. To the left or to the right, we will and must deal with this abuse.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u202	I understand your question, but I would remind you that making agreements on the submission and handling of proposals is a matter for the procedural meeting or the organisation of work. Mrs Voortman has a question for Mr Veldman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u203	I would have liked to answer Mr Veldman's question first, but I understand that is not the intention. I will not do that now, but I will do so later outside the meeting. My question concerns Mr Veldman's comments on the central administration. He is not satisfied with what the Minister has said in writing, but I am not clear what he expects from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u204	With the VVD, the Minister believes that we can and should continue to take steps in how we organised our public administration. The Minister has tried to do so, but they have been stranded. Last year my colleague Mr Van Oosten suggested to the Minister that he should talk to the provinces again and ask them how they look at the redevelopment of the central administration. I want the Minister to do better than just drop it at a meeting. I want him to keep that conversation warm. I do not read that from his written reply. I'm surprised at that. If you invite someone else to indicate how he would like to decorate, then you need to talk to each other again. I didn't hear anything about it, I didn't see anything about it in the budget. That is why I made a comment yesterday in my first term. I was surprised at the Minister's written reply. I think that one's a bit of a bitch. How shall I put it? O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O. It reads as: I brought it and I'm done with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u205	I also read that there has been no response from the provinces. The provinces seem to have no need for this discussion either. But apparently Mr Veldman expects the Minister to push a little more. I find it annoying for the Minister to be put to work in this way, but the Minister is of course free to respond to that later. I'm really curious about his reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u206	Talking with each other is always good, of course, but with that conversation you have a certain goal. My question to Mr Veldman is: what purpose should the Minister have in these talks with the middle management?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u207	As far as I'm concerned, that conversation has multiple goals. We have often talked in the past about the fact that the number of drivers this country has is perhaps a bit out of control. I believe there are 5,500 drivers in the Randstad. Nine million people live in the Randstad. Compare that to New York where 9 million people live and where they do it with 500 drivers. I am not concerned with the numbers, even if I think they are relevant, but with the question of whether we have set up our public administration in such a way that it is done in the most qualitative way. And you can question that, both in terms of the number of provinces and the number of municipalities. We have 393 municipalities! We also discussed it yesterday and there were concerns about the fact that there are municipalities with council members who feel unable to handle the work. You have to keep talking to each other about how to make sure those people can handle their jobs. You can do that with information, education, courses and so on, but at some point you also have to look in the mirror and ask the question: can I still play my role as a representative of the people or as a director in such a municipality in a good way? If the conclusion is that you can't do that, you need to start talking about whether we can organise the public administration differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u208	In short, a neatly packaged message. However, the message is in line with government agreement: the minister should be on his way to achieve, if necessary, the scaling up of provinces and the scaling-up of municipalities through forced reclassifications. That's the purpose of the conversation. I will now remove it from all the peels and skins that are present in the packaging.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u209	I do not know what Mr Bishop wants to do, but I have indicated how I stand in it. I am quite simply in it: I do not want us to stop thinking because things have failed. We shouldn't stop talking, but we should keep talking about how we look at our public administration. How do we look at the middle management? How do we look at other forms of government and ourselves? You need to keep talking about that. I note that the Minister took into account the suggestion made to him last year in the written reply but that it remained so. If I ask you something and I don't get an answer, I'll ask you again. Because I'm used to trying to keep talking to you. After all, I am not asking that question for nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u210	That does not apply to the order of this sitting! You can ask a question twice at most. It was a bit challenging from Mr. Veldman, but I have to guard the order here. I would like to look at the clock and ask you all to interrupt and reply briefly. I am too late for Mr Veldman, and I say this to his successors in particular. I understand that Mr Veldman is at the end of his speech. I would like to thank him and give the floor to Mrs Van Toorenburg, on behalf of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u211	Mr. Chairman. We have talked intensively about the security services. That debate will be held again tomorrow. We have talked about the budget, and that will certainly come back tomorrow. Finally, we have also talked about powers. Let it be said that the CDA believes that the amendment of the Intelligence and Security Services Act is actually too long overdue. I therefore ask the Minister to clear out his office and ensure that the amendment of the law comes quickly to the Chamber. We cannot wait for more than six months! We also discussed the use of AIVD information in criminal matters. I do not often go along with a proposal, but let me now move on to the next motion for a resolution on the proposal of the PVV. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that jihad fighters pose a threat to the democratic rule of law;]] [[Whereas the use of evidence in jihad processes is hampered by the limited use of information from intelligence and security services;]] [[calls on the Government to examine ways of increasing the usability of information from intelligence and security services in criminal proceedings,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Toorenburg and Mr Bosma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-VII-32]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u212	On cooperation, we have a commitment that it will be a spearhead of this cabinet in the role of President. We think this is very important. We have talked about the safe public task. The Minister and we, the CDA together with D66, disagree. This is about the worst possible time to stop a centre of expertise. The VNG and others also say that this centre of expertise is doing very important work. I'm sure it doesn't have to stick with endless deadlines if it can be taken over, but this is the worst possible time to stop it. That is why we have tabled an amendment on this subject. Another point, which remains, concerns decentralisation. We very much disagree with the VVD in terms of decentralisation and scaling-up. It should actually be the case that the tasks go to municipalities in a simple way, so that the municipalities can normally pick them up. However, if you lay down a hugely complicated bureaucracy in municipalities, with far too little money, they stand against the wall with their backs and have to do it together, but this has never been meant for that. We also talked about the digital government. It is so nice to be able to table a motion on this subject with Mrs Oosenbrug, who is totally idolized by digitalization, when I am always stuck on it. The fact that we were able to make a motion together is nothing but fun. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the government aims to allow companies and citizens to handle business with the government digitally by 2017 at the latest;]] [[also noted that a significant group of citizens are in permanent danger of experiencing problems with digital services and being excluded from public sector information;]] [[Whereas, in contacts with citizens and businesses, public authorities should maintain the principle of "digitally where possible, personally if necessary";]] [[calls on the Government, in all digital government initiatives 2017, to ensure that alternatives are offered to citizens who are unable to use that digital government,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van Toorenburg and Mr Oosenbrug. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-VII-33]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u213	I would just like to ask a quick question about Mrs Van Toorenburg's intervention in favour of this motion. This was about the fact that it is quite scandalous when it comes to decentralisation that municipalities have all their costs and that the scale-up reduction is actually very wrong. A very brief question: what will Mrs Van Toorenburg do about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u214	We have had this debate six times, I think. Unfortunately, I note that this cabinet is not in a position to ensure that the scaling-up discount disappears, while the tasks are transferred to the municipalities in this way. As Mr Van Raak has rightly pointed out, I did not wish to do so again. We believe that the cabinet should come up with a solution to this. It is not prepared to do so. We have already tabled several motions; I am not going to repeat that circus today. We find it really impossible for this to happen. Fortunately, the Minister is going to talk to the aldermen and the VNG again to see how it can be maintained financially. We will follow that promise. We must then consider whether we should take action.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u215	I fully agree with that, but I note that this afternoon the CDA rejected a motion from me to remove the scale-up discount. That might have something to do with the cover I've chosen. Perhaps there is still a future, because I will table another amendment on this point. Perhaps Mrs Van Toorenburg will say that the CDA will actually deliver butter to the fish.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u216	That is a valid point. Mr Klein immediately made that responsibility very concrete by wanting to change it by amendment. I understand that very well. We didn't like the cover. So we are still holding on to the Minister's commitment to re-conversation with the Aldermen's Finance, because, of course, something must be done. I couldn't agree more. Finally, we have talked about the small cores. I have had very serious doubts as to whether I should still be tabling an amendment on this, but I think that with the Minister's promise that he will really talk to the association and resolve it, we will have to have peace. We'll follow him to see if he actually does.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u217	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for the first-term replies. In this debate, we have looked at the position of municipalities and the increase in the tasks of municipalities in a variety of ways. In particular, I have called for attention in my contribution to be paid to the members of the municipal council, who have received a lot of support and could use more support. I am therefore pleased to read in the Minister's written reply that he has already started better support in several areas, or at least prepared to do so. The group of the PvdA thinks it will help if there is a bundling of all this effort and if more direction is given to it. An action plan is a good way to achieve that. That's why I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the decentralisations and common arrangements have greatly increased the work of municipal council members, while the social appreciation of council work is decreasing;]] [[considers that the quality, integrity and expertise of local government are of great importance for the functioning of the municipality as "first government";]] [[whereas it is now five years since the position of council members has been investigated;]] [[considers that it is necessary to develop a cultural change in society as well, which helps to increase the social appreciation of council work;]] [[calls on the Government to work together with the UNG to draw up a strong action plan, including at least:]] [[an examination of the position of council members, taking into account whether time spent, the workload, responsibility and remuneration of council members are still in balance;]] [[basic and specialist training and expertise promotion programmes to which each council member in the Netherlands is explicitly invited;]] [[further development of council member-friendly personnel policies, e.g. through flexible working hours for council members;]] [[and to notify the Chamber before the summer of 2016,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wolbert. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-VII-34]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u218	Yesterday we also discussed in detail the position of municipalities and the nasty way in which things are going, I shall just mention, with regard to the ever-changing budgetary information, the construction of the Municipal Fund. I have called on the Minister to achieve more stable information and a future-proof Municipal Fund. To this end, I have prepared and signed the motion of the VVD. I hope, however, that the Minister will work towards what he can do earlier. The motion leaves some room for manoeuvre in that, and I would like to see something very much pinched, taken up by the Minister as soon as possible. Finally, I am pleased to read in the written reply that the Minister is talking to the National Association for Small Cores. I am even more pleased that he has explicitly and clearly promised to support the National Association for Small Cores, so that she can continue her fine work. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u219	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for the comprehensive answer and, above all, for the commitment to identify with the VNG what questions exist about the display of personal data and the tension between public disclosure and privacy protection of citizens. I therefore look forward to seeing that inventory. Where I said "1981" earlier, I meant "1991." Something is wrong, but as far as ICT is concerned, there was indeed much less in 1981 than in 1991. That was the last year that a comprehensive report came to the Chamber. I would like to follow a recommendation from the temporary committee on ICT projects to the government and submit the next motion for this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Temporary Committee on ICT Projects recommends that an annual overview of ICT costs should be provided to the Government;]] [[Considers that transparency with regard to ICT costs is necessary in order to control and steer these costs on new proposals for ICT investment by the government;]] [[considers that in the Annual Reporting Company Rijk the ICT costs are not sufficiently understood;]] [[invites the Government, from now on annually, to send to the Court an overview of the ICT costs, including the full costs of licensing, maintenance, purchase of hardware and personnel costs including the hire of externals,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Oosenbrug and Mr Veldman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-VII-35]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u220	Now that municipalities would like to be the boss of their own ICT and Eindhoven, Woerden and Boxtel have joined forces to achieve this, I submit the next motion to prevent lock-in and improve the use of open standards. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there are only two suppliers for some of the municipal applications, which do not consistently apply open standards;]] [[Whereas municipalities incur high costs as a result of insufficient switching of municipal software suppliers;]] [[Whereas this vendor lock-in is partly caused by the insufficient enforcement of open standards by municipalities with their procurement policies;]] [[Whereas the Cabinet is preparing a law governing the common digital infrastructure;]] [[Considers that a regime for the application of open standards by municipalities is a vendor lock-in;]] [[calls on the Government to enter into consultations with the VNG with the aim of improving the application by municipalities of open standards, and to inform the Chamber of the outcome in spring,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Oosenbrug and Mr Veldman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-VII-36]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u221	I see I have ten seconds left to apologize. I told you yesterday that Parlis was in the Chamber. However, it is not about the Chamber itself. That website seems to be a private initiative. On this point, I have corrected it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u222	If Parliament gets blamed again, it was the private initiative! Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for the answers. I am not entirely reassured about the polling stations, voting booths and ballot boxes for the referendum on 6 April. The heads are being put together. I hope that the Minister's starting point is that as many people as possible can vote as easily as possible, so that the turnout is strong. What the Minister said about what happens to the results, I found interesting. Something's coming to the Chamber, but what? What if the outcome is no? Is there a "no law" coming to the Chamber? Or is that still dependent, for example, on the results? If 80% say no, is the government more inclined to come up with a no law? I find that interesting. Anyway, the Chamber has the last word. I think that's good. I fear that the public administration in the Netherlands is playing with fire. We are now dealing with 12,000 asylum seekers a month. They're being rammed through by the city councils. The COA uses a robbery technique; I'm just quoting. Not only municipal authorities are being used, which is actually the least of them, but above all citizens. Many citizens are very angry and are clearly opposed to the arrival of asylum seekers, but nothing is done about it. The Minister comes up with a technocratic, bureaucratic and state-law fully valid story, but it turns out that a lot of people are very angry about it. A lot of municipalities continue to brusque people. We saw that last night in Otterlo. It played and plays in many places in the Netherlands: Purmerend, Budel and now again Heumensoord. The asylum side is also supported by a substantial subsidymoloch: the COA, RefugeeWork Netherlands, etc. The residents are not heard, or insufficient. Nothing is being done about their objections. Increasingly, local government is seen as an enemy. It does something that intervenes enormously in your daily life, but it has no message at all. Very often residents are very much opposed and the public administration is very much in favour, often 100%. That's gotta collide. This will ultimately undermine the legitimacy of the municipal authorities and thus also undermine the legitimacy of the government. That is a very dangerous development. I hope that in his many talks with local authorities, with municipal authorities, the Minister also wants to think on that side of the story. See you next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u223	Mr. Chairman. I only have three minutes, so I'm gonna move my motions right now. The content of motions is clear. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that figures from the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau show low confidence in government;]] [[Whereas this is partly due to the fact that the public authorities are not sufficiently accessible to all residents due to lack of knowledge of procedures, bureaucracy, proximity and complex language;]] [[Whereas a project such as Method Overijssel led to a reduction of objections and appeals of up to 50%;]] [[calls on the Government to take measures to increase public access to these aspects and to reduce the legality of dealing with residents,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is dissatisfaction with the way in which the government handles requests under the Public Administration Act, and some even speak of abuse;]] [[Whereas information is a right, not a favour, and the public authorities should provide information as actively as possible without creating thresholds;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure a better, more applicant-friendly handling of WOB requests leading to a 50% reduction in the number of objection and appeal procedures against decisions taken following WOB requests within five years,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that public involvement in legislation mainly consists of internet consultation;]] [[Whereas greater involvement is desirable, partly because it enables systematic use to be made of the wide range of expertise outside government;]] [[calls on the Government to launch a pilot to write and explain some legislative proposals through an accessible way and to send them to the Chamber before the summer of 2016,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the exchange of information between European intelligence and security services is crucial to combating terrorism;]] [[noting that this cooperation has not yet been fully achieved;]] [[calls on the Government, certainly during its EU Presidency, to further optimize cooperation between these services and to take the role of the European intelligence service INTCEN into account, including a full mandate with associated democratic control for INTCEN,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Koser Kaya, Mr Van Toorenburg, Mr Voortman and Mr Bishop. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-VII-37]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Koser Kaya, Mr Voortman and Mr Klein. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-VII-38]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Koser Kaya and Mr Voortman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-VII-39]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Koser Kaya, Mr Voortman, Mr Krol and Mr Klein. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-VII-40]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u224	Then my final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there is a great deal of concern among municipalities about the continuous adjustments to the Community Fund payment;]] [[Whereas amendments to the Municipal Fund should be consistent with decisions taken by municipalities on their budgets;]] [[calls on the Government, in close consultation with municipalities, to reduce the number of changes to the benefit for a given year from the Municipal Fund and to better align it with the municipal budget cycle,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Koser Kaya, Mr Voortman, Mr Klein and Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-VII-41]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u225	Mr. Chairman. I have one motion on the bundling of budgets for open dates. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is no separate item within the Home Affairs and Kingdom Relations budget for the implementation of the various open date projects, but that this is financed from various posts within various budgets;]] [[Whereas the pooling of these resources would contribute to the implementation, coherence and coordination of these projects;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the possibility of pooling expenditure on open dates within a single item in the Home Affairs and Kingdom Relations budget, thereby coordinating all expenditure in this area with the Ministry,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Voortman and Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-VII-42]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u226	Mr. Chairman. I am pleased that the Minister has promised to come up with a ministerial settlement, so that the independent judicial test will be dealt with in advance by lawyers before 1 January. Thank you for that. I am less pleased with the Minister's reply on the decentralisations and the aldermen's letter. The Minister does not seem to realize the need for municipalities, not only in terms of the level of austerity, but also in terms of the reliability of the Empire. If the cabinet does not show itself to be more reliable very quickly, it will be impossible for municipalities to regulate a good financial system. This may mean that municipalities will not even be able to obtain an approval certificate. I would like to hear what the Minister is going to do to prevent this, because ultimately, citizens will suffer if municipalities are unable to present a sound budget and annual report. That is why I co-signed Mrs Koser Kaya's motion. I have tabled an amendment which gives the Minister the opportunity to support initiatives in the field of do-democracy, such as the National Association for Small Cores. I assume that this amendment fits exactly what he himself advocated. For the support of council members, I also have an amendment. In this way the budget for the Wolbert motion in part No. 34 which calls for a plan of action to support council members.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u227	I call Mr Bishop. He's got one minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u228	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for his reply and to understand the official support in that regard. I was a little disappointed with the answer to the questions about the scaling-up discount. Also on the budget that is needed for the AIVD I am not entirely reassured. I find it difficult to comment on that now. It is good to agree that we keep our finger on the wrist. Thank you for the commitment on the small cores. I think this is the way to get to business. I was considering tabling one motion on the district agent, but we thought it best to present it tomorrow in the debate on developments around Paris. So I am not going to table any motions and thank the President very much for the opportunity to speak, so that I can close at 0.00.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u229	That was a pleasure to meet you. Mr Krol has the floor on behalf of the 50PLUS Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u230	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for all the answers and commitments. I would particularly like to thank him for pointing out once again to the municipalities the importance of continuing to serve citizens who really cannot do so digitally. That's how I know this minister. To emphasise this, I will wholeheartedly support the CDA's motion on this issue. I myself have four motions. The first is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas more than half of the Dutch municipalities have indicated that the rack is out in the event of cuts in the Municipal Fund;]] [[Whereas municipalities as partners of the Empire should be sufficiently facilitated in the decentralisation operation to carry out their tasks properly;]] [[Whereas stable budgeting of municipalities by the Empire is an essential part of this;]] [[calls on the Government not to introduce further reductions on the Municipal Fund if there is no reduction in obligations and tasks;]] [[calls on the Government to apply the link to national expenditure (the accres) no more than once a year,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, in a democracy, it is very important for everyone to have access to parliamentary information, including the debates held in the House of Representatives;]] [[noting that the NPO Politiek channel can only be seen via the internet by people with a paid digital subscription;]] [[believes that streaming debates over the Internet alone is not enough;]] [[calls on the government, the NPO Politiek transmitter, to add as extra must-carry transmitter,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-VII-43]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Krol and Mr Verhoeven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-VII-44]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u231	This second motion would have been tabled earlier this week, but it was not possible at that time. That's what we wanted to do with D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u232	This motion is, I think, already before the OCW budget. Mr Krol confirms that. The most logical place to submit this motion is, for example, at the Media legislative consultation we held last week. That's where it doesn't come up. Mr Krol wasn't there either. I think that's weird. If this motion belongs somewhere, it's there. It appears in all kinds of budget discussions, but not in the place where I think it belongs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u233	Let me explain to you why that was. In the media debate, Mr Verhoeven of D66 announced this motion on my behalf. I was somewhere else at the time. Today there are several municipal elections...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u234	Mr Krol, I have to interrupt you for a moment. Mr Klein has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u235	I was present at that media debate and Mr Verhoeven spoke about it. At that time, the Secretary of State's answer was that it was not a problem at all, because NPO Politics is passed on neatly everywhere. Mr Verhoeven has not tabled a motion to that effect. So I don't understand why it should be now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u236	Apparently, Mr Verhoeven believed at that time what was then communicated by the Secretary of State. The facts are different. In several packages it is not like a must-carry transmitter. Today there are municipal elections in various places. We have taken note of the Minister's written reply. However, we need more information on our proposal. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas municipal elections are often dominated by national themes and politicians;]] [[Whereas local elections should cover as much as possible local issues;]] [[Whereas it is possible to avoid this by not having municipal elections held nationally on the same day;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the advantages and disadvantages of having municipal elections distributed and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-VII-45]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u237	And, like the previous very cautious motion, I submit a final, extremely cautious motion. This is meant to break the deadlock around taking out car insurance when you're a little older. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas according to the Centre for Insurance Statistics, motorists between 66 and 76 years of age do not present a higher risk than younger motorists;]] [[Whereas age-by-age distinction is still being made by car insurers;]] [[Whereas, in the case of several insurers, substantial premium payments are still being made for the elderly;]] [[calls on the Government to consult with the Association of Insurance Companies to see how age-based distinction in car insurance can be avoided,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-VII-46]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u238	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for his reply. The horrible massacre in Paris confirms that the West is at war with ISIS. This is an evil that must be fought to the maximum. So we have to make a strong commitment to our safety. My group has tabled an amendment to invest EUR 100 million extra in the AIVD. In addition, we need to extend the legal possibilities to protect our society from jihadists. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that everything indicates that jihadists enter Europe via the asylum influx;]] [[noting that returned Dutch jihadists are currently free to roam our country;]] [[Whereas every effort must be made to prevent further terrorist attacks;]] [[Considering that democratic constitutional states such as the US, Australia and the United Kingdom already have the possibility of pre-emptive detention of terrorist suspects, in response to severe instructions from intelligence services;]] [[noting that this measure continues to be subject to an administrative review;]] [[calls on the government to make administrative detention possible as soon as possible, so that jihadists can also be arrested and detained on that ground,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Klaveren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-VII-47]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u239	Mr. Chairman. The Constitution is the basis of our rule of law. That rule of law is worth defending. We'll talk about that tomorrow. We must therefore take this rule of law seriously. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the legislative power is entitled to review laws in accordance with the Constitution;]] [[Whereas it is important for the Court to effectively carry out its task of reviewing own-initiative laws and legislative proposals in accordance with the Constitution;]] [[Whereas a V and J test and an implementation test are already part of the legislative process;]] [[calls on the Government to include a constitutional test in the explanatory memorandum of legislative proposals,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Klein, Mr Voortman, Mr Van Raak, Mr Veldman and Mr Koser Kaya.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-VII-48]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u240	Yesterday I was surprised by the warm plea of the Labour Party for the support of the city council members in the Netherlands, and that was also what I was today after her motion on this matter. On this subject, I would like to table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas municipal democracy benefits from well-facilitated city council members;]] [[Whereas national political parties may receive subsidies, including to recruit and train council members;]] [[Whereas more than 34% of council members have been elected through local parties;]] [[calls on the Government to make the Financing Act political parties also accessible to local and provincial parties,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Klein. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-VII-49]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u241	Finally, I come to the scaling-up discount. We have all heard firm words about this from the CDA, the SP and D66, but unfortunately, when we tabled a motion today to do so within the framework of the Tax Plan, nothing was left of those good words. But we have heard about it again today. Then you must also take action. That is why we have tabled an amendment on this. The Tax Plan has been adopted. This means that tax relief will come and 35,000 jobs will be created. This means that we can reduce costs at the Ministry of Social Affairs and Employment. In that way we will find cover to finance the net distributed amendment to avoid the scaling-up discount. If I understand correctly, the votes on all the budgets will only take place at the end of the journey. Then we can combine this with the amendment to the SZW budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u242	The Minister for Foreign Affairs has indicated that he can respond to the motions tabled, as soon as he has them, and to the amendments tabled and raised in the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u243	Mr. Chairman. I've now received 25 motions. I understand there's another one coming. I will give advice on the motions I have received. Here's what I'm gonna do. I try, in principle, to confine myself to the opinions on the motions and the amendments. I have also noted two other points, of which it is necessary to respond to them in substance. One is Mr Veldman's request to be more active towards the Interprovincial Consultation, Mr Remkes and others, on the middle management and the start of administrative mergers there. I think I should respond separately because he did not record it in a motion. I did what I could at this point. Even when there was no agreement from the provinces on this subject, I tried to find a parliamentary majority. Turns out there wasn't one in the Second and First Chambers. At that time, at the request of Mr Veldman's predecessor, I once again asked the provincial leaders whether they felt anything for a provincial merger. The answer was that they didn't feel like it. At some point, it's gonna stop, too. If Mr Veldman succeeds in convincing Mr Remkes or Mr Verbeek that it is a good idea to achieve this reclassification, I will do my best immediately. The second point is Mrs Van Toorenburg's call for urgent consideration of the new law on intelligence and security services. I'm glad. I realize that this is not a procedural meeting, but I am absent from that sitting and I am taking advantage of this moment to express the hope that this will work. I'll try to keep it going. If the Chamber does the same, we can try to get to business quickly. I'll move on to the motions. First of all, the Van Raak motion on part No. 24 on cooperation between secret services in Europe. This is particularly true of the presidency of the CTG, the counter-terrorism group, which I mentioned earlier. If I can read her like that, I'll leave the judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u244	Let me take a look at Mrs Voortman, because she has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u245	I also asked a question. I have expressed my concerns about the municipalities and their financial situation. I fear that many municipalities will not be able to obtain an approval certificate. What is the Minister going to do to prevent that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u246	That is a good point from Mrs Voortman. This point was also discussed during the management table with the municipalities. I told you this afternoon. The discussion has not yet been concluded, either with the accountants, the municipalities or with the lawyers of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Finance. It is now too late to discuss it in detail. We are now in a transition situation from a very clear accountancy to an integrated policy situation. I do not entirely rule out that this can lead to bottlenecks here and there, especially in this current year. Municipalities and the Empire have decided to face this as a common problem and to tackle it. If this does not work out completely for this year, we will at least make it a point of action for the coming year to try to solve it as much as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u247	Thank you very much. When can the Minister inform us about its progress?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u248	I can see if I have anything to say before the end of the year. I'm working on that. If you can't do that, it'll be the beginning of next year. The judgment on the motion in part No. 24 I leave to the room. This motion resembles the motion in part No. 40 by Mrs Koser Kaya, but not entirely because, according to this motion, there would also be a mandate to the European intelligence service INTCEN. I would advise against this because national security is really a national responsibility. As long as it concerns cooperation between services in the operational field and this is decided by the motion in part No. 24, I can live with it. That is why I leave the judgment to the Chamber for the motion in part No. 24 and motion in part No. 40 betrayals. Then I'll go to the Van-Touch motion on piece number. 25. It concerns Mr Blok's portfolio anyway, because it is about the Empire. I would advise against taking new measures. We have a comply-or-explain regime and that seems sufficient to me. If Mr Van Raak wishes to discuss this further, he will have to do so with Mr Blok. That also applies, quite frankly, to the Van Raak motion in part No. 26, on the occupation of the formation at the Empire. This also concerns Blok's portfolio. If the author were to ask for my opinion now, I would advise against the motion, but I can also imagine him taking this up with Mr Blok on occasion. The motion-Veldman/Oosenbrug on piece No. 27 I consider to be policy support. I would add that the autonomy of municipalities must of course be respected. However, I read the operative part in such a way that I will pick up the discussion with the Association of Dutch Municipalities. I will. So I'll leave the motion to the Chamber. I consider her to be a supporter of policy. I'm getting to the motion on part No. 28, by Mr Veldman and Mrs Wolbert. Let me begin with the conclusion: I leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. I do have some reservations about this, which I would like to include in its implementation, should the motion be adopted. The aim of the Municipal Fund is, of course, to cover the costs incurred by municipalities in their legal tasks. There is no other purpose in principle. The aim of the criteria in the distribution of the Community Fund is also to seek as much as possible a link with the real costs incurred. I therefore agree with Mr Veldman, because I believe there are 96 criteria on the basis of which it is divided. You can simplify that, but you don't want to lose the connection to the costs that are made real. So I merely note that there is a certain tension between the two in itself legitimate objectives. And if you are really going to reconsider the criteria for the distribution of the Community fund, this will naturally lead to new redistribution effects. Therefore, where the first recital refers to 'great fluctuations', we will have to face the fact that it will lead to a large fluctuation if we take the Municipal Fund on a firm footing. After all, one gets better and the other gets worse. With that remark in mind, therefore, we will have to discuss this, but I have already said that we are having a discussion with the working group. I'm gonna take this in there. We'll report on it in the spring. I'll leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber. In the motion Veldman c.s. in piece No. 29 the government is called upon to come forward with a bill, "as soon as possible." You can be difficult against that, because of course you always have to do so as quickly as possible. Even if you use a growth path, as requested in the motion, you will need to find cover on which some agreement can be reached. It's not gonna be that easy, but I'm gonna do my best to do that. I'll leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. I come to the Veldman/Oosenbrug motion on part No. 30, on the fragmentation of responsibilities in digital services. Yeah, I've seen that fragmentation, too. That is why I appointed the digital commissioner. I have the impression that the Commissioner is doing this extremely actively. I'm gonna push him up a little bit more. I feel inspired by this motion to continue hard at this point. So I'll leave the motion to the Chamber. In the motion-Veldman/Oosenbrug on piece No. 31 calls for a common framework of standards. In that I provide basically with the Guide Open Data. Governments can also unlock their open data in a clear way via the website data.publicity.nl. In the end, therefore, this motion is policy support. I'll leave the judgment to the Chamber. I come to the Van Toorenburg/Bosma motion on part No. 32. Mrs Van Toorenburg said that this has actually been voted on before. I don't share the picture that the D.A. couldn't act on the basis of the AIVD's ministry messages. On the contrary, the prosecution does act on that. I therefore advise against revising this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u249	The previous motion was about the total mapping of the advantages and disadvantages. This has been done by several students. In this motion it is particularly important that it has been shown that there is almost nothing to be done with information from the AIVD in the way of proof. You can start a business with it. You can put a trajectory on it after that, but it's stuck in the evidence. The scholars all agree on that. Should we not have a breakthrough in this area as in France? That is our request. That's the port of this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u250	I thank Mrs Van Toorenburg for this explanation, but I insist that there are really separate responsibilities. We can, of course, have a long debate on this. The aim of the AIVD is not to facilitate criminal proceedings. The AIVD must serve national security. In this context, the AIVD may encounter situations where the public prosecutor should be informed. It happens all the time. That's good, because then the prosecution can act on it from its own constitutional role and responsibility. That could also lead to prosecution. I think it is valuable to allow the separation of responsibilities arising from a very different legal framework to exist. If I get the signal that the D.A. can't work this way, I'll get back to you on that. However, that is not the case at the moment. The motion in part No. 33 I consider to support policy: digitally where it can, but help with that digital road. Of course, there have to be other solutions if someone really can't. It is up to all government organisations themselves to set this up. So I am not going to take over this from municipalities, provinces and other public authorities. They're gonna have to do this on their own. I would like to point out that the responsibility for the tax authorities........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ He takes the lead in that. Having said that, let me judge the motion before the Chamber. The judgment on the motion in part No. 34 I leave to the Chamber. For the sake of clarity, I refer to what we have discussed. My suggestion to Mrs Oosenbrug about her motion in part No. 35 is that I pass it on to Minister Blok. I will ask him to give an opinion on this motion before the vote, because, strictly speaking, this motion is really about his portfolio. After all, the motion concerns the National Service. The intention of the motion in part No. Thirty-six, I get it. I will consult and report on this. I'll leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. The Koser Kaya motion in part No. 37 is somewhere between supporting policy and perhaps a little superfluous. Let me consider the motion as a policy support. I would like to add that I have been working for several years on the program of pleasant contact with the government. The Overijssel project is part of that program. It is therefore a good thing that there is appreciation for this, because it is part of the policy that we have been pursuing for a number of years. There are now 450 pilots at some 300 administrative bodies in which this informal approach is applied. It has indeed led to the withdrawal of between 50 and 60% of the number of objections. So it's a successful program. I am glad that we agree on that. I therefore consider the motion to support the policy. The same applies to the motion in part No. 38. For the sake of clarity, I would add that reducing to 50% is an effort obligation, but not an obligation to achieve results. I should like to comment on this motion for a resolution before the Chamber. The motion in part No. 39 I would advise against at this stage. We have not had a debate on this either. In this context, I refer to the Space for Renewal programme through future-proof laws and regulations in which such ideas can have a place. I don't want to make that decision right now. I can therefore imagine Mrs Koser Kaya holding that motion. I wouldn't recommend adopting that motion right now. On the motion in part No. Forty we've already spoken.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u251	Mrs Koser Kaya has a question on the Minister's comment on the motion on item No. 40.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u252	The Minister says he does not want to give powers over our security services to Europe. I get that. We don't want that either, and I'm not asking you to. Perhaps the Minister could take the operative part of the motion in part No. 40 reading. In doing so, I call on the government, at least during its EU Presidency, to optimise further cooperation between the services and to look at the European intelligence service INTCEN. That service needs to be considered. That is quite different from what the Minister says.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u253	That's gonna be a little wooly for me. If the operative part stops at optimization, the material is the same as the operative part in the movement in part No. 24 by Mr Van Raak. Then I'd like to leave it to the Chamber. Now, however, it says that the role of the European intelligence service must be taken into account, with a full mandate being considered. I think that is a bit of an abrasion with the premise that national security is a national responsibility. If that's what it says, I'll keep dissuading the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u254	It is very strange that the Minister reacts in this way. INTCEN already exists. So I think it is good to see how better this role can be shaped. There is no control over that mandate. The Minister wouldn't want that either. He should at least be able to see how he can do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u255	Then it transcends my responsibility. I am responsible for the Dutch National Security Service. I am fine with saying what is in the motion in part No. 24 to give priority to cooperation with other services. I would like to limit myself to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u256	Mrs Koser Kaya, the Chamber will vote on the motions. The Minister's giving a judgment. It is therefore up to the Court to decide how this is to be voted. The Minister continues his comments.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u257	The motion in part No. 41 also refers to the re-establishment of the distribution within the Municipal Fund. However, that motion already calls for a reduction in the number of amendments. The same applies immediately to another motion. That working group is running, and I wouldn't want to get ahead of it. Right now, the system is kick-on-strap-off. I want the motion in part no. 41 So dissuade them. The motion in part No. 42 I advise, because departments have to unlock their own open data. The budget is available on the respective budgets. This is a joint responsibility that each department must work for. As I mentioned in the letter, the BZK budget includes €820,000 for policy on open dates. However, I do not want to combine all this for the other departments too, with the motivation I have just given. For the motion in part No. 43 is what I just said. The content of this motion is contrary to the current step-on-step system. So I'd like to dissuade that motion now. As Mr Bosma pointed out, the motion in part No. Forty-four more strictly in the portfolios of some of my colleagues. I'd like to stay out of this. If my opinion were to be sought at the moment, I would advise against concluding it in the context of this debate. On the motion in part No. 45, on the spread of municipal elections, I do have a point of view. Spreading has the advantage of losing any link to national policy. The downside, however, is that you get a lower turnout. This is generally apparent in reclassification elections. All things considered, the government is not in favour of spreading. I understand the weighting and I also understand the arguments on the other hand. So far, however, the government has no intention of spreading the municipal elections. I'd like to stay with that intention, too, so I'm going to advise against the motion. As regards the motion in part No. 46 I should like to refer to a possible debate with my colleague in the Finance Committee. I understand that fundamental rights may lead to the principle of equality being discussed here. But a discussion with the insurance companies about car insurance could at most be held by the colleague of Finance. I would therefore advise against adopting this motion in this context.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u258	Then I'd like to hold the motion on the insurance companies. In the motion in part No. However, 45 on the distribution of municipal elections is not asked to introduce this, but to send us a note on this subject. Then we can make a better assessment of this together.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u259	Mr Krol is right that that is the operative part. But in fact I have already carried out the motion, because I have just discussed the advantages and disadvantages! No, seriously, if a motion is adopted on this, it is because you intend to move on this subject. We really don't have that intention, with the motivation I just gave. We have already discussed this subject in greater depth in general discussions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u260	At the request of Mr Krol, I propose his motion (34300-VII, No. 46). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u261	From the motion in part No. 47 I could imagine Mr Van Klaveren holding him until tomorrow's debate, in the presence of my colleague from V and J. This motion really relates to the portfolio of our colleague. Mr Van Klaveren is not here right now. Should I be asked for advice, I would advise against the motion in this context. I now turn to the Klein c.s. motion. in piece No. 48. I can now check if my official friends' advice is the same as my own intuition says. Yes, it is. In my view, Mrs Halsema has an initiative law before us on Article 120 of the Constitution. If I do, the cabinet has not yet taken a stand on this. I would like to leave it at this point and do not want to anticipate the government's opinion on the constitutional test. So I'm deceiving the motion as it is now before us.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u262	The Minister also replied to the written questions, but that is a completely different subject. This is about whether or not Article 120 of the Constitution should be amended. The only thing we say in the discussion is: let us take ourselves seriously. We want both legislators, government and parliament to take themselves seriously by including in the explanatory statement a paragraph stating how this law relates to the Constitution. That can happen very briefly, as with: that is no problem at all. I think it's a matter for ourselves and for the government to think about it. That is all we are asking for. That has nothing to do with the discussion on Rule 120. On the contrary, we do it ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u263	However, the government does not need to be encouraged to carry out a constitutional test in the case of legislative proposals. If we do not, then the House of Representatives is present, and if they do not, then the House of Lords also has a function in our order. Sounds like a win-win to me. I'm deceiving the motion in part No. 49. We have had debates on this before. Each level of government grants its own political parties. Europe subsidises European political parties, all parties active locally are subsidised locally and the Empire does so for all parties active in the Second and First Chambers. That's the order we know now. We have no intention of changing that. I shall now turn to the amendments. If my set is complete and I do have it, I will start with the Klein amendment to part No. 10. The aim is to amend the reduction on the Municipal Fund from the multiannual picture. I do not recommend the amendment referring to the debate we have had. The same goes for the amendment on item No. 19 on the coverage of the referendum. I spoke to the Chamber about this and said that we will come back to that after the discussion with the UNG. I therefore advise against this amendment. I would also like to say a few words about Amendment No 2. 20, I don't recommend. I spoke to Mrs Van Toorenburg about this and found that I did not convince her. That's too bad, 'cause I always do my best. Sometimes things work out, sometimes things work out, and sometimes things don't work out. That's what it is. I would also advise against the corresponding amendment to item No. 23 by Mrs Koser Kaya with similar motives. On the amendment to item No. 2 of the motion for a resolution (Doc. I would point out to Mrs Voortman 21 that there are sufficient resources available in the budget. For the LSA €150.0000 was released in 2016, additional to the €300,000 it already receives in that year. I would also like to remain somewhat cautious on this point, because it is ultimately a question of local democracy and local government has a role to play in this. So I do not think it is necessary to amend that. The last amendment to item No. 22 is a very far-reaching amendment by Mr Van Klaveren. I thank him for the importance he attaches to trust in the AIVD. His neighbor will undoubtedly do the same. But you will understand that, given the debate, I do not recommend this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u264	I've got a bunch of people on the Interrupt Microphone. I would just like to check with the Minister that I still miss commenting on the amendments to the documents. 6, 7 and 8, on the Municipal Fund, and on No. 16.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u265	If anyone is able to hand them over to me, I will provide you with an immediate advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u266	Let's get on with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u267	It was a bit fast. My final motion on the possibility of subsidies for local parties discourages the Minister with the argument that the municipalities can take that up. Does that mean, consistently argued, that the Financing Act will be adapted political parties to avoid all national political parties being able to use the subsidy for city council members?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u268	We have had this debate on a regular basis. National political parties receive national subsidies because they are active nationwide. You don't stop them from printing T-shirts with the party name on them and using them in municipal elections.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u269	The Financing Act is specifically about training, forming and schools of council members and not about T-shirts. In fact, they're even ruled out in that law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u270	Mr Klein has heard my opinion. I await the judgment of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u271	I think one of the amendments that has just been mentioned is one of mine. If not, something has gone wrong on our part and the amendment will come later. In any case, I would like to say something about the amendment on do-democracy. The minister says there's a budget for that. My point was precisely that the Do-Democracy Programme has been cut back. Apart from the grant for the LSA, there is no budget for it anymore. In order to make it possible, for example, to continue to subsidise the National Association for Small Cores, I have made this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u272	I thank Mrs Voortman for thinking with me, but I made a commitment about that National Association for Small Cores. I realize, if that conversation shows that I would like to subsidise it for next year, that Mr Blok or I will have to cover it. That's what we'll have to do at the time. It's $250,000. We're gonna do our best to cover that. In the undertaking, I said that I wanted to know the plans first and then come back to them. At the moment, therefore, I do not recommend the amendment. I don't think it's necessary either.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u273	With this amendment, you're making that room.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u274	Yes. Those other amendments have not been given to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u275	It is the amendments to the Rules of Procedure. 6, 8 and 9 on the Municipal Fund and the amendment to item No. 16 on the budget. They're about the City Fund. I suggest that the Minister responds in writing to this before the votes. That seems to me to be so careful, given that the Minister does not have those amendments at the moment. I note that the Chamber agrees with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u276	I will.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-17.u277	Then we have come to the end of this budget debate. The motions that have been tabled for this debate will be put to the vote next Tuesday. The amendments raised in this debate will be put to the vote at the beginning of December.
