ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-2.u1	Mr. Chairman. Dagblad Trouw reports this morning that at 200,000 locations in the Netherlands, the soil around agricultural holdings and factories is seriously contaminated with asbestos. In half of the cases, pollution is so severe that it poses a direct threat to public health. These locations need to be repaired as a matter of urgency. The soil is polluted by asbestos fibres released from rooftops and washed into the soil with rainwater. Is the Secretary of State familiar with the two investigations carried out by the provinces of Overijssel and Gelderland? Do these tests make sense? Its content is not yet public, but is it true that urgent disposal is needed, because in 45% of cases there is serious contamination and therefore there is a direct danger to public health? Asbestos roofs are prohibited by 2024. Does this also apply to unsanitated influx sites? The research concerns only twenty sites in Overijssel and Gelderland; how can farmers be informed whether in their case there is an influx site and whether there is a danger to public health? Is the Secretary of State prepared to make an inventory of this? What methods, apart from reorganisation, are there to eliminate, even temporarily, the acute danger to public health through cover, for example?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-2.u2	Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the questions, all the more so because yesterday I announced that I will ban asbestos roofs by 2024 and that they will have to be removed before then, given the fact that Mrs Cegerek has already pointed out enormous damage to public health. The more we know about the damage to public health caused by asbestos, the clearer the extent of the damage. Ms Cegerek referred to the investigations of the provinces of Overijssel and Gelderland. That is exactly what it is; they are investigations of the provinces. A few weeks ago, they informed me of a draft study and indicated that this study would be carried out. I understand from the provinces that next week the reports will be drawn up in Deputy States and sent to Provincial States. Then I'll get a copy, too. So questions about the content of the report are complicated, because I haven't looked at them yet. I think it is important that these investigations take place on a decentralised basis. That is exactly the way we deal with the soil covenant. We have decentralised the resources so that these kinds of investigations can be carried out very locally by provinces as well as owners. In this way, it will be possible to identify the problems, the locations where urgent needs are and how the problems can be solved. Mrs Cegerek then asked how other farmers could be informed about this. The covenant has been concluded with the provinces and 29 municipalities, precisely because it is so important that local and regional checks are made on where asbestos is located and where we want to spend the funds first. Yesterday I went to a farmer who replaced his own rooftops. The provinces received 20 million from the Empire for a scheme to replace asbestos roofs and to install solar panels simultaneously. It's really about that combination to make the flight forward. However, the background is exactly the same, namely that by weathering the fibers release from the roofs. That's exactly why I forbid this kind of roofs and thus tackle the problem at source.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-2.u3	I thank the Secretary of State for the answers. As it happens, there are two studies that we do not yet know about, but through the newspaper we have learned that there is a serious situation. These two investigations involve twenty locations. On the one hand, it is regional, but on the other hand it is national, because provinces are also our partners. That is why I ask the Secretary of State if, by means of the agreements to which she has just referred, she would like to carry out a broader investigation into them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-2.u4	I think it is very important that the investigation is not done by me, but that it is done on a decentralised basis. I am also making the funds available for this. It needs to be close to the sources so that regional or local can be properly mapped out if there is more in the area. I know that the provinces and municipalities, because they use the funds themselves, are looking at emergency locations and which are the most important locations. I would also like to maintain this method, because it has been clear in recent years that research is being carried out close to the problem and close to the roofs and the ground. We need to look at what the money is spent on. Other provinces and municipalities also look at where their problems are from the soil covenant. As a result, a lot is already known. The municipalities and provinces are aware that roofs are a source of the soil pollution mentioned by Mrs Cegerek. As far as I'm concerned, these rooftops are gonna be banned.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-2.u5	We will come back to it as soon as the investigations of the provinces are public, but so much so thanks for the answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-2.u6	Yesterday Secretary of State Mansveld announced that. It reported that from 2016 onwards, EUR 75 million is available to replace those roofs and to install solar panels and the like. That is a good thing. I read in the same report that the cost of replacing all these roofs, 135 million m, is estimated at about EUR 1.5 billion. I wonder how that will be paid and who will pay for it. What's that look like? Does the Secretary of State have a plan of action for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-2.u7	That's a good question. It is 120 million m; the figures in Trouw included the façade plates. This means that we are talking about 100 million m of agricultural roofs. Who's gonna pay for that? Of course we look at the owner of the roofs themselves, who put the roof on it. With the grant scheme, I'm gonna encourage you to do that. There is another arrangement, as I have reported, whereby asbestos roofs go off and solar poles come on. This is a separate arrangement which was initially difficult. In the meantime, the group has expanded, so it also includes locations that used to be farms. So it's about owners, provinces, municipalities involved and the Empire. That will have to be the combination of funding.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-2.u8	My group was still a little concerned when it read the reports on this subject. I ask the Secretary of State if she is prepared to forward the decentralised reports, when they appear, to the Chamber and to provide them with a Cabinet Juice. I would also like to know whether the Secretary of State can guarantee that these reports do not lead to an increased risk to public health.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-2.u9	I have no problem sending investigations that I know of to the Chamber. Those could be totally different investigations. It is difficult to give an appreciation of this every time, because it is very local research because the resources are available locally and every decentralised government looks at how these funds are spent. That's why I'm closing a covenant. It is a coincidence that on 17 March I conclude the covenant for 2016-2020. I am also constantly debating this health hazard with the Chamber. Of course, it's very bad for health, but we all know that. I am actually as concerned as the Chamber, because we know how many million square meters there are and that it is also about plates. There's a lot built with asbestos. Asbestos which is directly dangerous, in this case weathered roofs without gutters, is another direct danger than, for example, plates in buildings that do not come directly into contact with the outside air. I share the concern.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-2.u10	Asbestos has also been a priority for the SP group, especially at the time for Remi Poppe. I don't know if the Secretary of State ever debated him. They'd make a nice debate couple, I guess. How dangerous is it to invest it all on a decentralised basis? You then need asbestos expertise at municipal level, asbestos protocols need to be drawn up at municipal level and you need to put some of the enforcement capacity on them. Doesn't this make it more inefficient on balance? For example, when compared to the situation that as a Empire you want to keep a strong direction?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-2.u11	We certainly won't let it go. The covenant is concluded between municipalities, water boards, IPO, provinces and the Empire. We do have a common interest. I think it is important that municipalities and provinces close to the source do the research themselves and indicate where they set their priorities. This could have something to do with housing. These are matters that take place close to the citizen and at a decentralised level. That is how we have worked over the past four years, and this has been very effective. There has been involvement from the local authorities, together with the Ministry, which is also involved. Because the working method has been so successful for a number of years, all parties have said that they are keen to continue this method. Of course I'll keep the Chamber informed. I do not know Mr Poppe, but I am very curious about people who match me as a set.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-2.u12	That is what we are going to find out beyond Question Time. Thank you for your answers and for coming to the Chamber.
