ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u1	The next item is the debate on the Tax Plan 2016 package and the Common Reporting Standard Act; unfortunately, no Dutch word was found for this bill. We are doing the first term of office today. I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Finance to the House. You have already discussed this issue twice in legislative debate. However, that did not prevent Mr Omtzigt from signing up for this debate by 25 minutes. I give the floor to Mr Omtzigt of the CDA. By the way, we are trying to limit the interruptions to two at a time, and that may of course always be one, and they go into a question and a follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u2	Mr. Chairman. It's not one law, it's six laws. That amounts to about four minutes per law, and that is very short for my actions. The package, as the Council of State pointed out, actually contains 90% of the tax legislation. That is very heavy, which makes me feel that today we are talking about the main lines but leave a number of details unnamed. Let's start with the festive law on the agenda: the Tax Plan. If the coalition colleagues do not manage so well to appoint it during the legislative consultation, I shall do so. The burden will be reduced by EUR 5 billion. That is good news, and that can be said. In recent years, the CDA has been clear. The government needs to tighten the belt, not the citizens. For a flourishing economy it is important that everyone in the Netherlands has enough to spend, can spend money but can also build buffers. Just at the heart of our economy, the hard-working middle class, the cabinet decided to lay down extra heavy burdens over the last two years. The Tax Plan became a tax increase plan, and I myself have made the diagnosis "taxobesity" in these years. However, a change of course will be introduced this year. The taxes go down instead of up, the middle class gets money instead of a new account and hard work is just a little more rewarded instead of punishment. However, the tax reduction has not been fully balanced. This government not only reduces the tax, but also wants to steer: determine what people do in the country. That steering effect of taxation has a limit. Taxes are not always effective in controlling behaviour and taxes are not, in principle, intended for them either. They're financing our public spending. Similarly, taxes do not create jobs; then companies do. Taxation is only an obstacle to employment, not the solution. Yet here in the House of Representatives we seem to think massively that the income-dependent combination discount creates jobs, a kind of magic potion by Asterix and Obelix. Let me get colleagues out of the dream: almost no one is going to work for the IACK. Why not? First of all, you need to know what it is. People who work and have children can see that they get money back when they report it, but how many of them know it's because of the IACK? Never mind that people who don't work know what the IACK is and that you get a substantial amount of money when you go to work. How high the IACK is in individual situations, no one knows at all, including many MPs in this Chamber. That IACK is really the most overrated tax instrument there is.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u3	The IACK is a proven instrument. Is Mr Omtzig now saying that the models of the CPB, which point to the positive employment effects of the IACK, can simply be thrown into the trash?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u4	Half of the CPB has already done that. In any case, the effectiveness of this IACK has been in the middle of the latest models. That's starting to get closer to reality. I once asked a number of colleagues in the consultation: do you know how high this IACK is? Even here, no one knew. How can you change your behavior if you don't even know what the stimulus is or how high something you get from that behavior? You have to understand that before you can change your behavior on it. Or does the PvdA think that the models are the reality instead of the people?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u5	People just look at what's left of them when they go to work. What exactly is the law behind this, then, is the IACK, the general tax rebate or what else, people will be a concern. It's about what happens on the paycheck, I think. That's what the CPB says. It is true that the CPB has adjusted those effects, but does Mr Omtzig want to throw the other half of the models of the CPB in the trash?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u6	We have serious doubts about the effectiveness of the IACK. Indeed, the models have been modified for a reason. If Mr Groot understands the pay slip or, for Members of Parliament, the note for compensation, then he belongs to a very small minority in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u7	Of course, this is not a technical debate at all. Will Mr Omtzigt simply admit that his plan leads to €600 more taxes for parents with young children who choose to continue working? That IACK sounds abstract, but that's the real story behind what you're proposing right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u8	The real story behind what we are proposing is that this increase is not going to happen and that a different reduction is being offered. We have tabled an amendment on this. It's through child support.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u9	Surely Mr Omtzigt can admit that his proposal means higher taxes for people with young children who both work? Isn't that what Mr Omtzigt has to be honest about? Higher taxes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u10	I know the frame D66's trying to set up. That is what Mr Van Weyenberg was trying to do in the legislative consultation. It's through child support. Mr Van Weyenberg has seen the amendment on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u11	Mr Van Weyenberg would like an answer to the question he has asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u12	He says the tax is getting higher, but it's being compensated through child support. It goes another way to the two-earers with kids.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u13	Mr Van Weyenberg feels personally addressed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u14	If your working parents of young children who both want to work take away that combination discount that the cabinet has proposed, then that group just goes backwards, doesn't it? Free money doesn't exist with Mr. Omtzigt, does it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u15	It's being distributed in a different way. It's linked to the kids. This means, of course, that things are different; with more children things are different. I hope the cabinet has just seen the infographics I've seen in my hand. Those are CPB bills. I'll join the Acts in a moment. I will ask the President-in-Office to include them in the Acts. It simply says that a breadwinner with a modal income...................................................................................................................................................................................................... Let just the majority of householders who are not at the moment willing. They have a sick or disabled partner, they have a child who, for example, is disabled and needs extra care, or a partner who is involuntaryly unemployed, as an employee or as a non-commissionedzzp'er. Then where is the principle of carrying capacity? I expected a somewhat more detailed response from the government to this CPB study.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u16	I need to respond to your request. We're going to copy your piece so that everyone can take notice of it as far as they haven't done so yet. You ask for it to be added to the Acts, but I never really do. I normally say I'll make sure it's available to the CIP.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u17	That's fine. I would ask the Cabinet to respond formally. I'd like an extensive response. I have already asked them on the CPB study from which we have derived these figures.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u18	I'll make sure the cabinet gets a copy, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u19	The family I mentioned, in which not both partners work and one of them is the sole earner, is much less of the same income than a family of which both parents work. If the father in the family is unable to work because of a disability or chronic illness and the family makes extra health care, the government believes that they should contribute more to the tax burden for public expenditure. If either parent wants to work very much but does not manage to find a job, this government believes that this year the family should contribute relatively more to the tax burden on public expenditure. If one of the children in the family is ill and one of the parents really has to take care of it or provide guidance, then that family has to contribute relatively more and pay a higher tax rate. That doesn't have anything to do with carrying weight anymore, does it? Apparently, I have to remind you that our income tax is based on the principle of carrying capacity. The stronger shoulders carry the heavier loads. There has always been a difference of opinion between the different groups on how much heavier the burden on how many stronger shoulders can be. I have just given an example where the burden is so much heavier that there is ultimately less left than for people with less capacity. Is that fair? That is why my group maintains the proposal not to implement the IACK intensification and to add the funds released to the family allowances budget. I come to the second point that is of interest to our party in the Tax Plan: the purchasing power of the elderly. Those who have worked their whole lives should share a little in tax cuts. The Secretary of State may perform some kind of play and say that the elderly also share because there are fewer cuts, but that is not entirely fair. Much of the purchasing power repairs for older people, such as the elderly discount, are one-off, and the discount is structural. This can be fairer, especially now that pension funds remain in trouble. The problem of the elderly allowance is not so much in box 3. That's a relatively small amount of taxes. The problem is that these elderly people suddenly lose their entire rent allowance. These are elderly people without supplementary pensions, who, for example, had a business or sold their house, and have about €25,000, 30,000 savings. So far they were entitled to rent surcharge, often around €3,000, €4,000. Because they fall into box 3, they pay €50 or €100 tax per year. That is so far, but they are also losing their rent allowance. That's very ugly. Most importantly, it is for the group that has savings between €20,000 and €25,000. They are now losing a year's rent supplement, and if box 3 continues, the exemption will go back to €25,000 next year. That's inexplicable. But it is also hard for the rest of the group to explain that they have spared their entire lives, often unable to get into a pension fund, and that they are now losing that exemption and the entire rent allowance. Then we can simply create transitional rights. I would just like to refer to the 2005 Verburg/Weekers amendment, which created transitional rights for single parents who temporarily had a higher exemption for the rent allowance. That was perfectly feasible at the time. I'd like to get a reaction to this. Then I come to the final key point of my party's Tax Plan: Box 3. I would have liked it better if the government had submitted this bill separately to the House of Representatives, so that it could be dealt with carefully. Of course, it is a good thing that people who now earn a return well below 4% have to pay less box 3 tax. In fact, 2.9% is still too high, if you compare this with the savings rate that is very quickly tending to zero and has even become negative for companies. But we don't have to talk about that for months. However, the legal feasibility and budgetary implications of this legislative proposal are very high. It seems the Secretary of State's intention to approach the real returns better. That is a trend break, because in the last ten years box 3 has not been based at all on a really achieved return. The 4% was established in 2001 as the risk-free return. Can the Secretary of State confirm this trend break? Because to people who get 0% to 1% interest on their savings account, it is not fair to explain that they have to pay 2.9% tax, because we pretend they also have investments. Legally, people may not be considered to have investments, but they actually count. If people have a lot of savings in the bank, the difference between the interest rate and the fictitious 4.7% or even 5.5% will only increase. That has nothing to do with a better approach to reality. Then it is good to see whether such a system with many fictitious parameters, variable proportions and assumptions is legally valid. See the assumption that you get 4% interest on government bonds, while Minister Dijsselbloem really only offers 0.7% and you even have to pay less than four years for loans to the State. On Monday, the Secretary of State replied that lawyers have looked into it. They didn't see any problems, so it's okay. I'm not convinced of that. The lawyers I'm talking to do see risks. The question is how to interpret the judgment of the Supreme Court of 3 April. Of course, that judgment didn't see on the current proposal regarding box 3, but it saw on the valuation of rented properties in box 3. When you read the judgment, you can see that the legal considerations, for example, about approaching the real value by means of a flat-rate scheme and a stack of flat-rate puzzle pieces fit into the Tax Plan. I stick to my question last Monday: why is this judgment not applicable? What legal analysis is the basis for this? Speaking of the legal aspects of box 3, I would like to point out another point. Foreigners with capacity in box 3 often pay for a lower fictitious return than the Dutch. That's because of the lack of some kind of progression retention. This is, of course, allowed by European law, but I do not think it is really fair. How does the Secretary of State feel about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u20	I have a brief question for Mr Omtzigt. If we are going to actually tax the real return in box 3, is the CDA more inclined to go for a capital gain tax or is it more inclined to go for a capital gain tax?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u21	I'm leaning towards a capital gains tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u22	That's enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u23	Finally, I would like to know whether the proposal on box 3 is good for the treasury. The Secretary of State claims it's budget-neutral. People with a lot of capital pay the bill so that the percentage of people with low capital can be reduced and the exemption increased. The Secretary of State promised to get better during the consultation on my note, but I have to say again that behavioral effects are not being taken into account. Are people with a fortune from a few tons willing to pay more taxes or will they move their assets to box 2? In the Financieele Dagblad, tips have been given to transfer your assets. On all sides, advisors are ready to set up e.g. When I asked the expert invited by the coalition at the round table what these people should do now, he immediately gave five ways to avoid the tax in box 3. None of those five leaks are sealed. I have the following questions to the Secretary of State about this. Why has behavioural effects not been taken into account in the estimation? What is the maximum budgetary risk for the state treasury? Suppose all the assets from €325,000 per person and double for two partners are put in an e.g. Then what is the annual deficit of the Treasury if we assume an average return of 2.9% as the expert said? I am not talking about the occasional deficits that can really be much higher. Does the Secretary of State actually like people saving or investing privately via an e.g.? It's not illegal, but does he find it undesirable, or is it really all fine? In short, does the Secretary of State have a moral judgment on this? The Secretary of State is now looking for support for his tax plan in the Upper Chamber. He has outlined a number of alternatives to this. With regard to gas and electricity adjustment, I am still waiting for the employment effects. I'd like to receive it for the first term of office of the Secretary of State. I ask the Secretary of State to indicate which sectors will be most affected by the proposed increase in the gas tax. Indeed, there are several sectors that are dependent on gas for heating or operating and cannot switch to electricity. Think of the mineralogic industry and the swimming pools. I'm gonna ask you a few short questions. I'm very positive about the quick scans. It is good to get information about the feasibility in advance, but then the Chamber should be able to do something with it. It should be noted that all the amendments that change income tax state that the change cannot be included in the provisional declaration. The Tax Administration is already tweeting that you can make a provisional declaration for next year from today, while the parameters have not yet been established here. Should the Chamber ignore this fact? Should there never again be an amendment on income tax? Or should the Tax Plan be dealt with earlier in the year? That's what I'd like to know from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u24	Mr Omtzigt seems to turn to a number of rather technical questions, but I still have a very political question. We have heard Mr Omtzigt over the past year about excise duties and the border region. That wasn't the way it was supposed to be for the pump holders. I have heard him make demands today, but I have not heard anything about excise duties and about pumpers. I have a very simple question: should that be resolved, will the CDA be able to vote in favour of the Tax Plan?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u25	I have just tabled an amendment to reverse last year's excise duty on diesel and LPG in car taxes, which is financed by the tax subsidies for very clean cars.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u26	That wasn't my question. My question was: is the adoption of that amendment a precondition for the CDA, after all the big words, to vote in favour of the Tax Plan? Or should today be the conclusion: the CDA went through the pump, Pieter went through the pump?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u27	How well-educated by D66! Let me be very clear. D66 wants to make ten or fifteen demands. At the beginning of my speech I outlined my three requirements: box 3, the honesty between single-earners and two-earners, and the elderly. In doing so, I have made it clear that I will make and will continue to make the other proposals. I sincerely hope that D66 will finally give a substantive response to this amendment, because so far it has got those border pump holders from someone who, incidentally, comes from Flanders...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u28	You may ask this question when Mr Van Weyenberg is behind the speaker's chair. There are no interruptions behind the speaker's seat. You'll have the opportunity in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u29	Oh, I'm sure I'll use that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u30	Mr Bashir has the floor for an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u31	Mr Van Weyenberg has a point, because in recent years there have been a few central themes. For example, the SP talked about income and property inequality, GroenLinks talked about greening, D66 talked all the time about jobs, jobs, jobs and the CDA talked all the time about pump holders: the excise duties in the border region, the people who fuel in Germany and Belgium. Now the CDA can bring in those points, but we do not hear Mr Omtzigt at all. What's with the change of course?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u32	In my view, my group is the only one who has tabled two amendments on car taxes. I have not heard any other group on this issue. There is an amendment to reverse last year's increase in excise duties with the coverage I indicated during the WHO, namely the fuel-efficient cars. They are being over-subsidised, as we have told you time and time again. We've told the Chamber that all the time. The Secretary of State nods because he agrees with me, but he will not be able to leave the opinion on the amendment to the Chamber. That is very sad for the border region, I can assure him. The Secretary of State finds in his heart that we are right, but says for political reasons: we are not doing it. How painful can you have it? How painful is it gonna be? I invite the D66 colleagues, who are very hard on this, to support this amendment. I also invite the SP, the PVV and especially the Labour Party and the VVD. After all, I have not yet heard of the Labour Party...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u33	Mr Omtzigt, you can also ask this question when the spokesperson of the PvdA is here. Now Mr Bashir is facing you. He'd like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u34	I also find it painful, very painful. If it really was a central issue that could have been made a point of today, then we should have heard Mr Omtzigt. The debate on the amendments is still under way. Mr Omtzigt is likely to receive the support of the SP Group for these amendments. But he could have put those proposals here. The cabinet wants to know what proposals it gets from the opposition parties to get support in the Upper House. Then Mr Omtzigt could have raised the issue of excise duties here too. For in this tax plan too, excise duties are increased, albeit with inflation, but they are increased. We do not hear Mr Omtzigt when it really matters.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u35	I am the only one who has tabled an amendment here and I am accused of not being heard about it. It shouldn't get weirder! The SP, who has requested all these other debates here, and I am not, has not even tabled an amendment on them, but now blames me for having tabled the amendment! That's kind of the reverse world. The Secretary of State believes that electric cars should lose some of their tax advantages rather than admit that their excise duty increase has been two thirds less than he thought. It was estimated at 260 million and 100 million came in, the Secretary of State said. Especially in view of the non-verbal communication of the Secretary of State, I look forward with great interest to his taking over. Mr Bashir is right about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u36	I would like to dwell on Mr Van Weyenberg's pump. The crucial question in today's debate is whether the CDA supports the Tax Plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u37	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u38	So far, you have always left it above the market. However, you have the key to sending the cabinet home. You have strongly opposed, for example, excise duties, care for the elderly and study funding. It was all three times nothing the cabinet did. Now you have the key, I am not saying: the plug is in your hands to send this cabinet home, namely by not voting in favour of the Tax Plan, and then again you are leaning towards a very constructive 'give something for the old and for the breadwinner and we are back inside'. Is that right? Are you through the pump?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u39	We consider this Tax Plan with 5 billion in relief far more positive than the tax plans of previous years. For all the points I have raised in recent years, even about oldtimers, Mr Van Dijck will address this. I hope that, when it comes to the open discussion here, the cabinet will open its eyes to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u40	Does Mr Omtzig realize that, if he votes in favour of the Tax Plan, he is actually voting indirectly in favour of all these cuts in care for the elderly and for the funding of studies, the social loan system? All these things have been proposed by this cabinet. He now has the opportunity to have elections cast. Send this cabinet home! Then we can close the borders. Then we can improve care for the elderly again. We'll be able to improve student funding again. These are all matters that Mr Omtzigt would like. However, he does not use the key and is sent back into the reed with a few crumbs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u41	Mr Van Dijck pretends to be discussing study funding here today. There are six legislative proposals on the table, and that does not include study funding. There's a tax plan for 2016. The choice will be to agree or not to do so. The question is to agree to a reduction in the burden which we want to adjust on a number of points, which I think we really want to amend by means of amendments. As always, we will make constructive proposals for this. I wonder what all the parties in the Chamber will do with that. I am also very curious about the reaction of one particular party, which has said that it has a local department that does not, in principle, fill up across the border. We still haven't heard that section.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u42	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u43	I've had the old timers. So I can skip that now. I'm coming to the S&D facility. Of the 25 AEX companies, 12 do not deduct R&D expenditure from the profit tax. How come there are so few? Even if you're losing, you're gonna need a subtraction, because you can move more forward. Does that mean that many companies never make a profit or do not pay a profit tax? As far as the grant exemption is concerned, I invite the government to make sure that it can be done in three years of non-union and that the bestowal is bestowed on children over the age of 40. Not everyone has a ton and if you already have a ton, you often have to pay a fine to the bank. That's not what the right of donation is for. Why does the Tax Plan say that you will not receive an exemption if you have made use of the exemption from 2010 to 2014? The exemption was only increased in 2013, right? I thank Secretary of State Dijksma for her letter on the coal tax. Can she or the Secretary of State for Finance also give an idea of how small there is a chance that there will be a lawsuit and compensation? And until when can people object to the decision? It is said that no objection has been raised. Has that deadline expired yet? I come to a number of other fiscal measures. We consider the questions referred for a preliminary ruling to be a good measure, which would improve legal protection and legal certainty. With regard to country-by-country reporting, we ask the government about the implementation in the United States at the moment. I have asked a number of questions about the cost of work. My conclusion is that the change does not make it clearer for employers. I come to the suspensive effect at surcharges. If you finally win, after appeal and appeal, a lawsuit against the Tax Administration and are entitled to a supplement, the government proposes that you do not get your money paid if the Tax Administration appeals. Then you've probably been through a very long process. We do not think that this is fair to the beneficiaries. We have tabled an amendment to that effect. The tax authorities can always claim that the payment does not have to be made immediately, but that does not have to be done automatically. I'm coming up on the Wet Reciprocation Domain. This introduces a wage cost advantage and a low income advantage.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u44	Mr Omtzigt goes to another part of the tax plans, but I have one more question. The CDA has consistently argued for cuts to reduce the burden. Now I have looked at all the amendments and announced amendments by Mr Omtzigt. I saw a higher gambling tax to pay defense expenses. I also saw 300 million higher taxes for parents with young children who both work, in order to increase child benefit. It's okay. Those are the choices of the CDA; they are not those of my party. But can Mr Omtzigt confirm that what his party is proposing today means, on balance, 400 million in higher taxes?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u45	Revenue and expenditure are not maintained in this package. I think it doesn't matter for families with young children whether it goes through the IACK or through child benefit. In this respect, the burden and net income of families with children will not go up or down, in contrast to other parties, who would like to increase the tax on natural gas by hundreds of millions if they could. We don't choose to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u46	Mr Omtzigt is quite right: D66 reduces the burden on labour by more than 10 billion. Thank you for giving me the opportunity to repeat that, but my question was a very different one. Can Mr Omtzigt confirm, in my view, that is simply a fact that the amendments amount to 400 million in higher taxes? I hope he will answer the question now, and the Secretary of State will answer it in his own way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u47	Nets remain exactly the same for families, because child benefit is a net benefit. Mr Van Weyenberg knows that. So there's no problem with that. Moreover, our counter-proposals also contain a number of freezes on public expenditure, which this government has not implemented. They are not on the Tax Plan; they are on the budgets of the individual departments. I would have stayed with the Reciprocity Act. I thank the Minister and the Secretary of State for the neat and comprehensive letter with comprehensive answers. However, we were shocked by that, because another comprehensive law is being put in place, which must enter quickly and whose business case still needs to be written. The lessons of the Whale Drama are only partially learned. There is not even a chain manager with perseverance on the side of UWV and Tax Administration, while these authorities have to work very closely together. That's gonna be big trouble, like we saw at Walvis. Data should sometimes be exchanged eight times between UWV and Tax Administration for one individual benefit. I'm coming to LIV. In order to create 7 000 jobs in the models, a new subsidy will be paid for 350 000 workers. Among those 350,000 employees are 20,000 students and students. There are also 10,000 Eastern European workers. And that's just an estimate, because there could be more. The Secretary of State knows: if you subsidise something, you get more of it. If he subsidises purple cars tomorrow, he'll see that the number of purple cars increases tenfold. Last Monday, the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment said that LIV is aimed at people whose employer is not eligible for a wage cost advantage, but who are indeed vulnerable, because they are or are just not able to earn the minimum wage. However, people who do not earn the minimum wage do not get LIV at all. For 29,000 people who belong very precisely to the target group but who work 40 hours a week for the minimum wage, there is no LIV, because according to law they earn too little. What do you mean unfocused? It can't be any more unfocused than this. If you really earn below the minimum wage, because your employer gets pay dispensation for you, you're not covered by this law either. The CDA had spent the amount that the government used for this law and actually almost throws over the beam because it is very unfocused, rather on pay dispensation for people who are covered by the Participation Act. We have been very surprised that this has not even been considered. That instrument is more focused, more efficient and I would like to take a look at Mr Van Weyenberg's report much cheaper.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u48	I don't get it anymore. Based on this story, I assume the CDA is going to vote against the Remunerations Act. Or does Mr Omtzig propose another nine amendments to fix this? Can I conclude that he is voting against this law?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u49	I always like it when everything is concluded in the first period, but it is better to do so at the end of the second period. Mr Van Dijck has indeed been able to see that we are very critical of this law. The answers indicated that the law is very unfocused. I would like to give the government the opportunity to respond to this, but I did not ask for these figures for nothing. I noticed that we were about the only party asking questions about this and wanting to raise these figures above the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u50	Okay, so this is gonna stick over the market for a while. The CDA was also very critical about the Tax Plan, but Mr Omtzigt apparently repaired it with nine amendments. Can he indicate which of the nine amendments in the Lower House should be adopted in order to support the Tax Plan in the Upper House? That might be interesting for the coalition, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u51	What the First Chamber does is its own consideration. We've known that since today. Maybe even better. In the legislative consultation, we were the only party to say what our three main points were, namely box 3 loose, older people and the breadwinner. I come to the bill mother-daughter directive. It solves the problem of hybrid loans and introduces a general anti-abuse clause. I indicated at the Ecofin Council that I think this anti-abuse clause is too vague. For the Netherlands it is not an addition, because we already have fraus legis. In the case of a hybrid loan, the prevention of the non-taxation, i.e. no tax from the parent company and interest deduction from the subsidiary, is very important in combating tax avoidance by large companies. This is a very big step forward that makes our economy a bit fairer again. Did the government close the hole in a good way? In the note following the report, the government replied that the non-business loan was not covered by the provision. To be honest, that surprised me. So you have a loan that is subject to the participation exemption in the Netherlands and entitles you to interest relief in the paying country. This bill abolishes the participation exemption in the Netherlands, unless you make the loan unbusinessable. However, that is quite easy to do. If you change the terms of the loan, for example by withdrawing the security, you keep the participation exemption. That's not supposed to happen, is it? I'd like to get a reaction to this. On the other hand, the hybrid loan measure goes a little too far. Suppose you're a big company and you don't want to pay taxes anywhere; you could. Then you're really stupid if you lend a loan to a daughter in a country with a general interest discount. In that situation, therefore, there was no non-taxation. The Secretary of State is now making it a double charge. He defended himself by writing that he is simply implementing the directive. But is it? The Parent-Subsidiary Directive requires, on the basis of Article 4 of the Directive, that the State of the parent company allows tax relief. This Article requires the granting of foreign corporation tax to the extent that a remuneration on a hybrid loan abroad is not actually deductible on the basis of the interest deduction limitation. So the Secretary of State is not simply implementing the directive. Its limited implementation is contrary to EU law. I'd like to get a reaction to this. I'm getting to the last two laws. About the Exemption Benefits Act Article 2-Funds I can be brief. I'm very glad the Secretary of State sent this bill to the Chamber. As far as I'm concerned, he can't go in fast enough. With the Common Reporting Standard, the Tax Administration will exchange wealth data with other countries. From 2017 onwards, we will receive the property data of Dutch people with money abroad. This law is a major step forward in the fight against black savers and black investors. Can the Secretary of State indicate when the banks must have the personal information, including the identification number, of their customers? Should double-national taxpayers pass on their identification numbers of both countries to the Tax Office or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u52	Mr. Chairman. The 2016 Tax Plan has become a thick package with a number of good things the SP Group agrees with. For example, large companies have to pass on how much tax they pay per country, so that the Tax Administration can see if it is fair; and not only the Tax Administration, but also the people in the country. That is good for transparency. For entrepreneurs who can still avoid their tax obligations, the foreign route is closed. That's fair and should have happened a long time ago. The capital tax is being made progressive and there will be a reduction in the burden on workers. That too is good news. However, the SP Group is not satisfied, because the points that the SP Group is heavily concerned with are not sufficiently fulfilled in this Tax Plan. I shall begin with the distribution of the 5 billion reliefs. It is clear that my group had used the 5 billion package differently. A total of EUR 1 billion is now being allocated to reduce the burden on high incomes, while the lowest incomes are barely getting anything. In addition, non-working people, such as the elderly, do not participate in the package, while many of them were asked during the crisis. We are disappointed that the PvdA Group has not used its direct influence to mean something to these groups as well. It is sad that inequality is increasing in the Netherlands, including with the Social Democrats at the helm. Inequality is increasing not only in absolute amounts, but also in percentage terms. We had a debate on this in the legislative consultation. At the time, the numbers were disputed. I said that the people with the highest incomes are making a lot of progress in pennies. At that time it was said that the low-income people are making much more progress as a percentage. I took the percentage as well. And what does it turn out to be? Even as a percentage, low-income people are less likely to make progress. I have asked the Secretary of State several times and always received a somewhat evasive answer. That is why I am asking my question again. Is it right to skip the people who have the least and who have surrendered the most in this cabinet period, while there is 5 billion to be distributed? I have already announced that I will propose converting the tax advantage for high incomes into a tax advantage for everyone, so that the people on low incomes can also benefit. Let me be clear in advance: the SP Group will never agree to a package that is disproportionately distributed and in which certain groups that have been hit hard in previous years remain out of play. It is unfair not to meet the group that has the hardest. In addition, this policy is also economically ill-advised, because people with low incomes spend a greater share of their income than people who, for example, fall into the third or the fourth disc. By spending more, they also create more jobs. Does the Secretary of State recognise that spending on low-income people leads to more jobs?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u53	I am curious to see what Mr Bashir is basing his remarks on. I read out the answers to the questions that have been asked about the Millions Note. On page 8 it really says that it is 3.5% with a modal plus a half-modal with children, 2.5% with two modes and 2.1% with two modes plus a half-modal. When you look at all these numbers, you see a beautifully descending axis. This shows that the middle groups and the lower incomes are making more progress in percentage terms than the highest incomes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u54	I have here the 2016 draft resolution, an overview of the CPB. It says that people with an income of up to 175% of the WML will receive 0.7% next year. People who earn more than 500% of the WML get 1.4%. Groups with between 350% and 500% of the WML are added 2.1%. There you can see that the highest incomes also improve more as a percentage.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u55	The SP now points to the income position of beneficiaries. Surely it is not unknown to the SP that we have put the emphasis on employment and on improving the purchasing power of workers with lower and middle incomes? It is true that benefit recipients are lagging behind, but that does not alter the picture that lower and middle income percentagely, when they work, are far more advanced than those on high incomes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u56	People who have retired have also worked in the past, so I do not understand why, now that there is money to be distributed, they have to turn in or at least make much less progress than people who are still working. These pensioners have also worked in the past. It would be fair, if there were 5 billion to be divided, to look at everyone. Also realize that 0.7% of very little is very little, while 1% of a lot of money is a lot of money.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u57	On a number of points I can work together with the SP, also in the treatment of the Tax Plan. Mr Bashir was just talking about purchasing power and work. I would like to mention the amendment just tabled by the SGP, the Christian Union and to my surprise also by the Socialist Party. With this amendment, the purchasing power of 900,000 families with young children whose parents both work very badly. They will get a job fine and will be able to pay €600 more tax. What are all the stories about purchasing power worth, when almost a million families, with young children, whose parents both want to work, face such a loss of purchasing power?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u58	Just so we're clear, that's not exactly the correct story. In the cabinet's proposals, the difference between the earners and the two earners is only going to increase. What we are doing is reducing the difference. The two-earners are still making progress in the proposal of the SGP, the Christian Union and the SP, as the IACK will continue to rise, but it is rising less rapidly than the cabinet intended. The difference is used to strengthen the position of the single earners. Imagine having an accident, getting sick and unable to work anymore. Then why is it just to be severely punished? If you look at the difference between one earners and two earners, that's very big. That difference would be even greater if the proposals of the cabinet were to continue. That is why we have tried to reduce the gap.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u59	It is about the amendment to item No. 31.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u60	It is in Mr Bashir's argument that I give six cookies and take five at night and expect to be applauded. He has to admit that the amendment changes the cabinet's plan. This amendment means that a million families with young children, with both partners working, will almost be taken away from the combination discount that was envisaged. This is a tax increase of up to €600. Mr Bashir must agree with me that the story of purchasing power sounds a little hollow. My second question is how many jobs Mr Bashir is destroying with that proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u61	You say there were six cookies on the horizon. Those cookies were announced by the cabinet while others were not given cookies at all. What we do is divide those six cookies fairly: three to the people who are one earner and three to the people who are two earner. We think that's much more honest. When it comes to jobs, I would point out that those jobs are still being created. The two-earners are still getting a piece of cake, as Mr Van Weyenberg put it. The cabinet gives six out and according to Mr Van Weyenberg these parties take five off again. Then they still get a cookie and so they're still getting better.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u62	This combination of the SP and the Christian parties is a surprising development. If this amendment comes to an end, does that mean that the SP is going to agree to the Tax Plan?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u63	This is not a new development. As early as 2009, the SP Group asked Parliament questions about this phenomenon. The differences between two earners and one earners were much smaller then than now. In recent years, this difference has only increased. If you want to levy taxes, you have to make sure that this is supported by society. You can't explain it to people if they pay twice as much tax as their neighbor who is in the same situation, with the same income and so on. So we want social support for taxation. Then you have to make sure that the amount collected from families made up of two-earners is proportional to the amount collected from a earner. If the amendment of the SGP, the Christian Union and the SP is adopted, there will still be a difference, but that will be much less large. At the end of the day, when we vote on the amendments, we will decide whether we will vote for or against the Tax Plan. However, I have made it clear that for us the border between the third and the fourth disc weighs heavily. If the PvdA and the VVD want to go for social and green, they can. There is an alternative they can choose, including in the Upper House. We are indeed prepared to consider whether we can support the Tax Plan, but then there must be more than just this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u64	Do I understand Mr Bashir correctly that changing that border at the third disc is a very important condition for the SP?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u65	That is a very important point for us. In the end, we want to reduce income and wealth inequality in the Netherlands. You don't realize that if you raise the limit of the third and fourth disks even further. That money can also be used for everyone, both high and low incomes. This also creates much more spending effects. As I said, the SP has been advocating, together with the SGP since 2009, to reduce the inequality between single-earners and two-earners. So we are very sympathetic to reducing inequality, and so is the proposal made by the cabinet on this point. However, there must also be more vision behind it. Are we there yet, taking the first step? So the problem is solved? I don't think so. I think it is important that we discuss this further and decide for ourselves what is acceptable. In D66 terms, for example, job reduction can be envisaged. What is acceptable at this point? What difference between one earner and two earners is acceptable? I think it would be good to discuss this further. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State whether he is prepared to give an impetus to this, for example in the form of a letter. Then I'll get to the capabilities. I've been talking about income inequality. It has risen in the Netherlands, but it is not so bad compared to other countries. However, this does not apply to the property inequality in the Netherlands. The richest 10% of the Dutch now have 66% of all their wealth. According to Professor Bas van Bavel, the Netherlands is at the international summit in terms of power distribution and wealth is as unevenly distributed here as in the United States. According to the Scientific Board of Government Policy, inequality undermines democracy. People who do their utmost to come along but have too little to live on lose their trust in society as a whole. It is very important to reduce power inequality, to distribute wealth a little more fairly. There's plenty for everyone. The SP Group has therefore presented the plan to introduce a millionaire tax. In this way, an additional contribution is required from the richest 157 000 households. People who own more than 1 million in assets are charged 1% tax on assets above the million. That's a modest contribution for these people with so much property. I mentioned the adjustment of box 3 as a step in the right direction. Small savers will be spared and wealthier people will contribute more. However, I do not have the ambition to create a system in which real gains are taxed, as proposed by the SP Group. I do not believe that we can now arrange for real returns to be taxed by 2016. I see bumps need to be taken and buttons need to be cut. However, I do not believe in the argument that we cannot do it in the near future. It's possible, if we really want to. The Secretary of State says that banks already keep track of capital gains, but that this information is not kept and shared in the same way everywhere. However, as Mr Omtzigt said, the legislator is the only one who can ensure that banks deliver this data uniformly and structurally in the future. Is the Secretary of State prepared to pick up this glove? I want to agree with the Secretary of State that he will come forward with proposals in the 2017 Tax Plan to introduce a capital gains tax by 2018. As far as we are concerned, we can start with capital gains, which can be fairly easily maintained and shared by financial institutions. The rest, for example the income from real estate, is still a little ahead of the future. I'd like to get a reaction to this. At the request of Mr Groot, and to a lesser extent myself, the Secretary of State has closed the foreign route for dga's. The SP Group is very pleased with this. I also welcome the commitment that the Secretary of State will identify with his officials how box 3 can be avoided. There's no doubt about this. The fact that more will be avoided in the future if we do not look closely at box 2 is also certain. The CPB has recently published an interesting note on this subject. According to the CPB, decisions on the housing of assets are motivated by fiscal motives because a patchwork of capital taxes has arisen. Is the Secretary of State prepared to look at the many possibilities that DGAs have to postpone taxation almost endlessly? And is the Secretary of State prepared to look at a more uniform way of taxing capital, as proposed by the CPB? In addition to the previous points on income and wealth inequality, more ambition is needed as far as the SP Group is concerned to really focus on greening. We can talk about various greening proposals. Last year we put forward proposals and this year many proposals have also come along. Think of measures in the field of energy taxation for large consumers. Think of natural gas. Think also of the Maut tax, the incineration tax and not abolishing the coal tax. These are all greening measures that can be used to reduce the burden on labour. Doesn't the Secretary of State really see any room? The Secretary of State proposes to increase taxes on natural gas and to address the difference between single and two-earners with the proceeds. That is a good first step, but as far as the SP Group is concerned it is certainly not enough. This also increases the difference between workers and non-workers. I'm gonna ask the Secretary of State if this is true. The SP wants there to be a greening shift, which will do extra for non-working people such as the elderly, while at the same time creating more jobs by lowering the rate of the first tax disc, or by increasing the general tax discount, the elderly discount and the employment discount. I'd like a response. One more technical question. The Secretary of State is now also shifting money to the child schemes. I don't think they're fiscal. As I understand it, it is also contrary to the budgetary rules of the cabinet. Can the Secretary of State comment on this? As I understand it, we in the Chamber should not use tax increases to increase expenditure either. Or is this a departure from that policy from now on? In that case the SP still has a wish list. I'd like a response. It seems that the Secretary of State and the coalition parties have focused their attention on the SGP, the Christian Union and the CDA, in order to find support in the First Chamber. As far as the SP is concerned, there is indeed a viable alternative, a social-green alternative, which provides more jobs and also does something about income and wealth inequality. This alternative also has a majority in the First Chamber. I would therefore call on the coalition parties and the Secretary of State to look beyond the three Christian parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u66	That was a bit of a calimero call at the end, like: hello, we want to join, we are also opposition, we are also constructive. Until now, the SP, together with us, has always been the real opposition party, which fired off all the plans of this cabinet. Now the SP suddenly finds itself in a constructive role and also says it would like to talk, negotiate and participate. The question is: which amendments of the SP should be adopted so that it votes in favour of the Tax Plan?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u67	The SP Group is not there in the Lower House to only oppose. We're here to do something. If we propose a lot of things here and the cabinet takes them over, why not vote in favour of the whole package? Otherwise, you might as well not make proposals from the start because you're going to vote against it anyway. I don't think you're being taken seriously. We have tabled a number of proposals, for example on the border between the third and fourth discs. We want to use these resources in a different way: not only for the people with the highest incomes, but for everyone, so that everyone gets better, both those on low incomes and those on high incomes. If that proposal is adopted, I believe that we have taken a great step forward. We have also made proposals to do something with greening: if you increase the environmental tax slightly, you can use its revenues to create more jobs. We have also put forward proposals to reduce the difference between single-earners and two-earners. These are all proposals that we have made. We therefore hope that the cabinet and the various groups in the Chamber will look at these proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u68	Actually, Mr Bashir says: shorten the limit of the third disc a little bit and give everyone some tax relief, so level a little more. In my opinion, there has never been so much levelling in the Netherlands as in the past three years, but if one more step is levelled, the SP Group will change and vote in favour of the Tax Plan. But then I never want to hear the SP Group again about other things that it is honking about here, such as the care of the elderly and the closure of nursing homes. According to the SP Group, it is all so bad, but it keeps this cabinet in the saddle by supporting the Tax Plan. It therefore basically supports all previous measures taken by the Cabinet, including those in the area of care for the elderly. Mr Bashir must be aware of that. If he admits that the SP Group is now constructive, forgets the past and looks to the future, he's a guy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u69	If I understand correctly, the PVV Group is going to vote against it anyway. We will not be hearing any proposals from the PVV Group, because it will be voting against. We have made some good proposals here. That is also the work of a parliamentarians. It's not about sending home a cabinet, it's about making good proposals that make the country better. I'll come back to the border between the third and fourth disks. The third disc is extended in the proposals of the cabinet. By making the third disc bigger, people who earn more than €65,000 are going to pay 42% instead of 52% tax over €10,000 in income. That is therefore €1,000 in tax benefit for people who earn more than €65,000. We believe that this money should go to everyone and not just to people who make more than €65,000.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u70	Thank you very much for your input, Mr Bashir, and I apologize that my microphone was still open when I had to sneeze.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u71	Cheers, Mr. Chairman. That was a special moment, when the PVV called upon the SP to remain especially destructive. That's how you learn something on a night like this. Mr. Chairman. Our 2001 tax system is in need of considerable renewal and major renovation. It's complicated, it's bursting with deductions and exemptions, and it's the worst thing that ever happened, it's slowing down employment. The assassin, the Secretary of State called the notorious wedge between what an employer has to pay on labour costs and what a person has to pay on net wages, which is very little. Due to the high tax burden on labour, the hiring of workers is expensive for employers and an employee of his or her work does not have much left. Of course, that does not motivate enough to take the step to work or, for example, to work another day. D66's starting point for this tax reform is that it needs to pay more to work and employ people. D66 is also for greening. Despite the recovery of the economy, unemployment remains high. There are still 600,000 people involuntarily on the sidelines. The now-famous EUR 5 billion should have been the lubricant for a tax review that would, on balance, reduce labour costs much more significantly. This was an opportunity to vigorously launch the attack on unemployment, but I can only conclude that this revolving door criminal may now be held back a little, but can still do his destructive work on the labour market. The cabinet has lost the chance of an ambitious tax review. That says not only D66, but also the Council of State, the Court of Auditors, the Central Planning Office and the IMF since today. The IMF has today joined the large group of countries that say that the Netherlands needs to reform these taxes significantly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u72	Let's make a correction. It is true that the Council of State has said that there is a missed opportunity, but that is just as much about D66 and the opposition parties. Opportunities have been missed, opportunities have also been exploited. As far as the Council of State made that remark, it hit D66 just as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u73	The last time I read a report from the Council of State, that was an opinion to the cabinet on the tax plan submitted. There may be a lot of disagreement between Mr Groot and me, but not about the fact that this Tax Plan, which does not create the promised 100,000 jobs but only 35,000, was really a cabinet plan and not my party's plan. So Mr Groot cannot blame me much in that regard. The Council of State's opinion really referred to the Tax Plan, as the Council of State makes comments about it every year.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u74	It referred to the Tax Plan and the missed opportunity struck at the fact that politics has generally missed an opportunity here. This also includes D66, which ran away from the negotiations, just at a time when business could be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u75	The blackbirds in the coalition have been going on for a few days, but the core is, of course, that the coalition was divided and that the ambitious plans were not there. If I just look at what's going on here, that's a plan in which the Cabinet promises 100,000 jobs but doesn't deliver them. My door is always open to creating many more jobs, much more greening, much more reform, but the cabinet has let those opportunities go. The Council of State is critical, but also international organisations and the CPB. Even PvdA professor Flip de Kam had a rather destructive piece about the fact that the 5 billion is not being used enough to create jobs. If Mr Groot wants to be inspired by that, that would also make my day better.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u76	D66 constantly tambourizes that it can create so many jobs, but the only way to create jobs is by reducing burdens and not by shifting burdens. That's what D66 does. My question is about something else. You're talking about us encouraging people to work a little more, five instead of four days. Then I don't understand why D66 is so strongly opposed to doing anything for those breadwinners. After all, a breadwinner on the minimum wage goes to modal, then earns €16,000 more and doesn't have €2,000 left. He's making 90% of almost double his salary. That's what happens when he goes from three to five days. But a breadwinner would be crazy to go from three to five days, because he only does that for 10%.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u77	I would like to agree with Mr Van Dijk that we must ensure that a breadwinner is also making progress. Let me take a look at the plan that we have submitted, in which a breadwinner on a modal or minimum wage improves almost €200 by increasing the working discount. So Mr Van Dijk is served, perhaps to his surprise, at his beck and call.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u78	Mr Van Weyenberg walks away with this Tax Plan but doesn't want to do anything about the relationship between lone earners, singles and breadwinners. That costs jobs, and we shouldn't want to, but he does want to stimulate people to work an extra day. This stimulus is a perverse incentive for breadwinners. That is why I ask again why he does not look seriously at amendments or proposals that want to do something for those breadwinners.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u79	In the plan that we have submitted, the breadwinner with a moderate income or with a minimum wage will advance €175 employment discount. So that's what we're here for. At the same time, however, it seems that Mr Van Dijk and I are not going to pay for such plans by giving a million families with young children whose parents both want to work up to €600 in tax. If that is what Mr Van Dijk wants, then I think he should report very quickly to Mr Dijkgraaf, Mrs Schouten and Mr Bashir, because then there can be a signature under their amendment. I do not think that is a good amendment, because it leads to higher taxes for groups. I thought Mr Van Dijk was also opposed to this. And I think it's gonna cost a hell of a lot of jobs, too. The cabinet promised 100,000 jobs and in the end a third of them remained. We've had extensive treatment. I would also like to thank once again the Secretary of State's staff for the comprehensive response we have received and, of course, the Secretary of State himself. It was all the model's fault. That's what's left of me. The model had changed, so how could anyone keep the cabinet to that promise of 100,000 jobs? I've heard stronger reasoning lines before. There's an alternative tax plan. If you're critical, you should come up with your own proposal, too, I think. D66 did. With this plan, we can, among other things by greening it, Mr Van Dijck is quite right, and I am proud to say that we can reduce the burden on labour by more than EUR 10 billion. This will allow us to double the number of jobs in the long term. We increase the working discount in that plan, we increase the childcare allowance and we increase the combination discount that working parents with young children receive when they both work. That is what this is all about. Work must go on wages, more work must go on wages and it must be cheaper for an employer to hire someone. We discussed the alternative plan at the General Political Reviews, at the General Financial Reviews and during the legislative consultation on this Tax Plan, which lasted a total of 18 hours. So far, the enthusiasm in the cabinet and in the coalition has been moderated to do something with those plans for more ambition, more jobs and less pollution. I said during the legislative consultation: perhaps three times is the charm. I remain optimistic; perhaps today is four times the charm. Not only were motions of the SGP and D66 voted away for the local tax area in the General Political Reviews, so as to be able to significantly reduce the burden on labour, which is good for employment. Motions on greening were also voted down. Motions submitted by parties representing seventeen seats in the Senate were voted out by the coalition. A proposal for a different treatment of foreign and equity assets was voted out by the coalition. My party has made proposals and will continue to do so, but unfortunately we have to note that the cabinet has apparently turned its attention to others so far. That may be so, but that leads to an unfortunate outcome, as far as I am concerned, especially if we are going to burden a million families with young children hundreds of euros more heavily, resulting in all the job losses. The question is, of course, where is this going to end? In the legislative consultation, the Secretary of State made an opening offer. He offered 100 million for child support. I would like to give everyone child benefit, but the conclusion was that this would lead to a limited reduction in the number of jobs. The Secretary of State admitted that fairly, and I appreciate that, but this has led the cabinet to a slippery slope in order to further reduce the already low number of 35,000 jobs. I also have a question about this, because during these debates the cabinet suddenly decided not to withdraw the Sunday Act, although it was widely requested in the Chamber. It's a 1953 law for Sunday rest and against disrupting church services. I would never want to interrupt a divine service, but the core thing is, of course, that that law forbids people from doing all kinds of things on Sundays. A large majority of the House wanted to get rid of that, but the Minister of the Interior suddenly decided, like a thunderbolt in the clear sky, not to file the law of withdrawal. Can the Secretary of State exclude today that the desired support of the three Christian parties for the Tax Plan has in no way played a role in this? I think Mr Dijkgraaf would like to know that too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u80	I am indeed very interested in the answer. We are just going to wait and see, because we are now finally talking to the Secretary of State for Taxation. My question concerns the transferable tax rebate. When I listen to Mr Van Weyenberg like that, he is not in favour of using just an understatement. I can see him nodding. Is Mr Van Weyenberg aware of the fact that the D66 Group has agreed to the transferable tax rebate for people with benefits?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u81	I am aware that the removal of portability by this cabinet is being delayed in the provision of assistance; that is correct. I note, however, that Mr Dijkgraaf wishes to hold a fundamental debate here on the countertop subsidy, as I would like to call it. I know he chooses other words for it. I understand that from Mr Dijkgraaf, because he has always argued for this. My criticism is therefore not directed at him at all. My criticism, or my concern, focuses on two coalition parties that might support that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u82	That wasn't my question at all. My question was how D66 could blow hugely high off the church tower and even bring relevant laws to this, while the D66 Group, during this cabinet period in the 2013 Collection Act, unanimously agreed to the claim subsidy for people with benefits without any question about the transferable tax rebate and the reference minimum wage. So it's okay for people with benefits, but not for people who work, Mr Van Weyenberg? That seems to be the logic of the D66 group in 2015.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u83	But it's wider. That cannot be a surprise to Mr Dijkgraaf. The plan he is presenting today with Mrs Schouten and with my surprise...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u84	Mr President, with permission, but that is not my question. My question concerns the minimum reference wage and not our own proposal. We will come to that later in my speech. Then Mr Van Weyenberg can intervene. I'm looking for the consistency of the D66 group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u85	Yeah, because there's a plan here that makes work pay less. My group is against that. Mr Dijkgraaf can't surprise that, with all due respect, can he?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u86	But isn't that true for people with benefits? We have dealt with an SZW Collaboration Act here. I did not see any question in the written report. There was no request for a vote. It was just adopted unanimously. All those members of the D66 Group simply said: fine plan, do it!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u87	Yes, and that is clearly not what we are saying in the plan presented by Mr Dijkgraaf today.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u88	Mr Van Weyenberg was always the king of the suggestion and today he is again. He is now suggesting that there are all sorts of links to other legislative proposals. I would also like to know how the Secretary of State sees it, but we will hear about that later. I asked Mr Van Weyenberg the following question during the legislative consultation. What is his message to all those families and all those people who, for example, have a child or a partner with a chronic illness or disability, or who have not become unemployed voluntarily and who no longer have a WW benefit, when he talks so narrowly about a countertop subsidy?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u89	My message is that a family in which only the man or woman works for a modal wage or a minimum wage in practice is it usually a family in which only the man works in the plan of D66 to improve €175 employment discount. I'm not running away from that at all. I do run away from Mrs Schouten's choice, which she is allowed to make, to give parents with young children who choose to work both, up to €600 higher taxes. In that my group makes a very different choice. Moreover, the Secretary of State has suggested that the amount of EUR 4 million for parents whose one cannot work because of the care for a seriously ill or disabled child, the TOG-plus, should be slightly increased for the insiders. I think that's a good plan, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u90	Does Mr Van Weyenberg recognise that the tax plan as it stands today could lead to the difference between a single earner and two earner family reaching €8,000 a year, that we might even submit a proposal on the TOG plus to accommodate families with a seriously ill or disabled child, but that this will never bridge the €8,000? In short, I have two questions. Does Mr Van Weyenberg recognise that the figures are correct and that it can reach €8,000? Does he also recognise that all the measures proposed here or there never cover €8,000?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u91	The Secretary of State gave a clear answer to this in the legislative consultation. You can look for examples: those figures of Mrs Schouten are correct; I have no reason to question them in which that difference is great. This is inherent in an individual tax system with a progressive rate. But we choose in this Tax Plan to make wages work and work more. This is what all the measures in the D66 plan are aimed at. That's our goal. At the same time, we also have an eye for the incomes of a earner, because we increase the working discount for them if they have a modal or minimum wage.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u92	Mr President, I promise to be very reluctant to interrupt the rest, but this is one of the pressing issues in this debate. I suddenly see a nice opening at D66, because I hear Mr Van Weyenberg say: for people who do not have that choice, for example because they have a disabled child, that TOG-plus is fine. But is he also aware that 75% of the single-earners do not have free choice because they cannot find a job or because they have a student, older, chronically ill or disabled partner? Can I interpret his words in such a way that he thinks there should be a concession for those groups?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u93	I am going to give the same answer as in the legislative consultation. Mr Dijkgraaf will vote in favour or not. We propose tailor-made solutions for the group in which care is provided to a seriously ill or disabled child at home: the TOG-plus. By the way, I would remind you that we made an agreement with the cabinet about this TOG plus once in another constellation. So Mr Dijkgraaf cannot blame me for not having an eye on this group. It's a custom solution. At the same time, the plans we are submitting lead to a lot more jobs, which means that it is going to pay more and more to both of us to work, if that is what we want. That is indeed a choice made by my group. Once again, Mr Dijkgraaf makes different choices. The SGP election programme cuts 1.3 billion in childcare. Those are choices, but not D66's.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u94	We did stick together for the TOG. That was nice back then. I hope we can do that again now, but it is of course only a very limited group of people. But 3% of the single-earners have a disabled child who cannot work for that reason. I am looking for the other 72%, of whom Mr Van Weyenberg says they should go to work. These people would like to, but they can't, because they're chronically ill, disabled, unable to find a job, or because they're studying or too old. If someone doesn't have that choice, you don't have to punish him for that, do you?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u95	Moreover, Mr Dijkgraaf is now putting words in my mouth. I didn't tell anyone what to do. I said I want to make sure it pays to go to work, both of them. With the SGP, the taxes for that group go up, not with me. The essence is, of course, that, if you look at the tax burden, the following applies. That example of 8 000 will probably be true, but the average tax burden is 21.5% for two-earners and 24.5% for one-earners. I think that Mr Dijkgraaf himself should apply this relativization a little more often.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u96	D66 tambourizes that it should not be at the expense of the IACK. However, it seems that if this Tax Plan is to be taken into account by the Chamber at all, the IACK will have to believe it. So the question is, what does D66 do when 300 million of the IACK goes off? Or did Mr Van Weyenberg realize that himself?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u97	Mr Van Dijck seems psychic. My group is very critical of the lack of ambition in the Tax Plan. It is clear that if we take a step backwards with this proposal and increase taxes on people with young children who both choose to work significantly, my group's support is becoming increasingly out of the picture.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u98	More and more out of the picture. Can you specify that a little bit more? How far out of the picture?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u99	It's way out of the picture. I understand that Mr Van Dijck has a problem with it if you may not go full on the organ once in a while, but I think "get out of the picture" was already quite clear. I asked a question about the Sunday Act. I am not insinuating anything, but I do want to know, as I say to colleagues Schouten and Dijkgraaf. Has the debate on the Tax Plan played any role in the rather surprising and somewhat inimitable decision of my group in the Cabinet to ignore a very broad shared wish in the Chamber and not to repeal the Sunday Act? I was talking about the sliding scale of the commitment in the Secretary of State's opening bid, where there was limited job losses. Again, I'm glad he admitted it honestly. However, there are other proposals. The CDA wants to abolish the combination discount, increase the tax on families whose parents work, and use that money for child benefit. Mr Omtzigt was clear about that. For the CDA, I think it's a rather surprising turn of events: using an increase in costs for an increase in expenditure. Anyway, that's a choice. Mr Omtzigt has just defended that passionately. Can the Secretary of State confirm today that this costs 13 000 jobs after all? It seems to me to be a good thing to have that sharp in this debate. In the meantime, there is also an amendment from the Christian Union, the SGP and, to my surprise, the SP for the partial restoration of the transferable tax rebate, the counter charge subsidy. As far as my group is concerned, that would be a trend break. How many jobs does this amendment cost, I ask the Secretary of State, which, on the one hand, partly restores the counterfeit subsidy and, on the other hand, significantly increases taxes on working parents with younger children? Let us not forget that 60 years ago, women were fired of their own motion on the day of their marriage when they worked in the government. They then had to be devoted wife, mother and housewife. It was only 6 years ago that we began to reduce the countertop subsidy, by the way, under the leadership of a Prime Minister of the CDA house. That is what I am saying to Mr Omtzigt. We're working on that until 2024. I see Mr Omtzigt at the interrupting microphone, but I ask him if I can finish my block.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u100	I hear Mr Omtzigt say it's okay. It's okay with me, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u101	Then you'll make my evening all right. That goes for both of you. It has been a long struggle and the Netherlands has come a long way, but still one third of women aged 25 to 50 years are not economically independent. Of all women of working age in the Netherlands, only half are economically independent. This makes them vulnerable in the event of a divorce or if they want to get back to work when the children are out of the house or go to high school. Then it's hard to find a job. At that point, D66 does indeed make a different choice. We choose to make it attractive that both partners work. That is why, in our plan, we have not increased but reduced the burden on these groups. In our plan, these groups are making a great deal of progress if both partners work.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u102	If someone who earns €10,000 is suddenly going to earn €12,000 and so is going to provide a little more in-house income, how much does that person benefit from this IACK?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u103	Then we are still very much below the minimum wage, but the IACK is rising. In this way, around the minimum wage, she reaches the maximum. This is about €2,700 in the cabinet plans.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u104	It does not reach the minimum wage, but at €32,000. Mr Van Weyenberg is 60% wrong. He's $13,000 wrong. That route of net was in all honesty about €120. That means that even the spokesperson of D66 who wants to pump hundreds of millions into it has no idea what it's like. If he himself doesn't know what it's like, how can he know what its impact on labour market participation is?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u105	There's a fantastic picture in the cabinet plan. We are even increasing that by a substantial amount. Mr Omtzigt may try to make a quiz of it, but he simply makes a different choice in principle. He chooses to do so, and I find that a pity to burden this group more heavily. What that means to lose jobs, he's increasing on the buy. Mr Omtzigt makes an ideological choice. You can, but it's not mine.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u106	D66 invests hundreds of millions, while she doesn't even know what she's doing with it. If the person who proposes it already doesn't know it, then the people in the country certainly don't know it and so it has zero effect on jobs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u107	I understand that Mr Omtzigt needs a lot of words to try to mask the fact that he is destroying 13,000 jobs with his own plan, as is evident from the overbooking. I think that's a remarkable choice from the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u108	Mr Van Weyenberg informed the Secretary of State about the job effects of the amendment tabled by Mr Dijkgraaf, Mr Schouten and Mr Bashir. Let's go over it. In the short term, according to the CPB, the spending effect generates a number of jobs. That doesn't change. There's just 5 billion in the economy. In an article in the Nederlands Dagblad this is confirmed by Egbert Jongen, a researcher of the Centraal Planbureau. In the long term, you're talking about 2040. This is determined by the change from the base path. It is zero, because from 2028, the transferable tax rebate will also be zero in our amendment. In the short and long term, therefore, there is zero effect. So the answer is already there. Or has Mr Van Weyenberg discovered other mechanisms in the model that lead to something?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u109	Mr Dijkgraaf is going to elaborate his amendment in his own time limit, but I note that it is being brought forward by reducing the combination discount. It seems to me that costs jobs. I am not enthusiastic about this amendment because it costs jobs and because of the basic choice it makes as to how we deal with parents who choose to work both. I'd like to get the exact calculations of the number of jobs from the Secretary of State. I look at him with enthusiasm, because I'm curious about the results. In previous plans, I have seen that both the reversal of the transferable tax rebate and the increase in taxes for young parents who both want to work cost jobs. For nothing, the sun rises. The incentives to participate are, of course, changed by Mr Dijkgraaf. He's very aware of that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u110	Mr Van Weyenberg says: the sun is rising for nothing. That's a very nice statement from him, because that's exactly what this is about. In the long term, nothing changes compared to the basic path. There is therefore no lower labour supply and no employment effect. One thing happens in the short term. In the short term, labour supply is slightly lower, which does not reduce the number of jobs, but lowers unemployment, as confirmed by Mr Jongen of the CPB. Our amendment therefore leads in the short term to lower unemployment and, in the longer term, to the same number of jobs, unless Mr Van Weyenberg can indicate here that he has discovered another mechanism in the model. These are really the mechanisms used by the CPB.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u111	I expected nothing but creativity from Mr Dijkgraaf in his amendment, but the essence of the matter is that he raises taxes for working parents. Mr Dijkgraaf should not run away from that. He does this by partly restoring the countertop subsidy. And that my group is not enthusiastic about that, I think Mr Dijkgraaf would have been more surprised if I had fallen into great enthusiasm here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u112	Mr Dijkgraaf calls out of the microphone that he would have been positively surprised.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u113	Sure. Well, then I'm gonna have to disappoint him, but he already understood that. We have an ideological debate here. I like that, by the way. That is what we had in the legislative consultation. It is a real debate in this Chamber two days before we vote on the Tax Plan, on the question of what we want to spend taxpayers' money on and how we want to collect it. We make other choices; I really look at the coalition parties: the PvdA and the VVD. Do they agree with the parties' desire to partially restore the countering subsidy and to increase the burden on parents who want to continue working when they have young children? I hope that this is not the case, because it would simply be a job fine. I can't call it anything else. It would be a job cut for a million families who have both young children and in which the partners both want to work. That seems to me to be the wrong direction, a direction in which their taxes go up by almost €600. By the way, it costs jobs. Out of the original 100,000 there were only 35,000 left, but that counter goes further down. I hope that the Secretary of State, but above all the two coalition parties, will not go along this route. I'm here to talk about the greening. This Tax Plan is about as green as the color you get when you mix the blue and orange of the VVD with the red of the Labour Party: a little brown. The greening ambition is negligible. That is a disappointment to my group, because the climate and the environment, like unemployment, are major challenges where we have to take action today. I do not need to repeat the Urgenda speech; we all know it. I still have a lot of questions. Does the cabinet really think it wise to re-introduce the exemption from the coal tax while we are deprived of more coal than ever? Will the cabinet really stick rigidly to the energy agreement? What is the cabinet really going to do to make sure we just shut down those power stations? As far as I am concerned, this is not just about the old power stations from the 1980s, but also about the more recent ones from the 1990s.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u114	D66 regularly discusses the simplification of the system and the importance of increased economic growth. We support that idea, of course. Last year D66 also came up with the story to standardize VAT rates at 15%. That is also a wise story. Only, we never heard D66 again about that proposal after that. In the meantime, my group has tabled two motions to bring the rate of VAT into line at 15% and D66 voted against it twice. Why did she do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u115	In a very big tax deal, in which you do a lot, that is still negotiable for my group. In order to do this properly and carefully, including in terms of purchasing power effects and effects on sectors, I do need a comprehensive story. I cannot make these sums, and I suspect that Mr Van Klaveren cannot do that either. I'm really looking at the Cabinet to make plans like that. As long as I do not have a complete package in which this has been taken into account responsibly and precisely so that we know that the introduction is good in terms of size, we do not just vote blindly for it. For us, however, it is still a discussionable point in a much larger tax reform.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u116	The plan, the underlying ideas, the effects and the effects are known. Also in the piece of the CPB, Building blocks for a modern VAT, there are some things about it. Mr Van Weyenberg should know that. Do I understand correctly that I can conclude that D66 is still in favour of standardising the VAT rate? Will D66 support a motion when we come up with it again, or will D66 itself propose to work towards a uniform VAT rate?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u117	I'm going to repeat myself a little bit: I still support that principle. But if we want to do this properly and responsibly, including in terms of impact on sectors, then we also want to ensure that, for example, the burden on labour is very much reduced, so that we can explain it to entrepreneurs as well. We need a very comprehensive tax package. We're not only gonna make it with a deal on VAT. I can't put this big plan together at a detailed level here. I wish I could. Mr Van Klaveren may be able to do that, but I can't. Once again, when comprehensive tax plans are put in place, we still think that this is a very discussable direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u118	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u119	I was talking about greening. My question was what the Secretary of State could say about closing down the older coal plants and also the less old coal plants. And why is he so stubbornly sticking to the energy agreement when it comes to the coal tax and the very sweet deal the coal farmers have arranged for themselves? Why is fossil gas still taxed relatively low compared to electricity, while electricity is increasingly green? Does the cabinet, also hear the consultation, support the plans of D66, GroenLinks and, in my opinion, the SP to do something about it? My group welcomes the amendment tabled by Mr Grashoff van GroenLinks to see whether we can do something about large consumers as well. That's gotta be careful. After all, no one wants to chase companies out of the country. However, a careful and limited increase for large consumers would be negotiable as far as my group is concerned. It wasn't in our own plan, but I think it's an interesting thought if you do it carefully in terms of size. I'm curious to hear the Secretary of State's response. I'll be on the loading posts. This is a kind of continuous story with every treatment of a tax plan, as I have understood from my predecessor on this portfolio. I'm going to do it differently now than in the legislative consultation. Then I kept asking the Secretary of State: couldn't we do this to do what to charge the charging posts so that you can charge your electric car more easily and cheaper, or could we? The Secretary of State always knew what couldn't be said. I ask the Secretary of State another question today: what can be done? What's with the loading posts? I also ask for the government's opinion on relaxing the rules of the game for locally sustainably generated energy and on a zero rate for energy taxation. I call the postcode rose, which had to become a zip code caterpillar, as we discussed. I know that an amendment to that effect is being worked on in the Chamber. That is an amendment by Mrs Schouten, Mr Grashoff and myself. Is the Secretary of State open to making it easier in cities, for example, to generate your own renewable energy? Greening is also possible and necessary in road traffic. Where the VVD prefers to play around this subject with 130 km/h, I think the PvdA is different. My party and the Socialist Party are proposing to introduce a toll on polluting lorries. By the way, it already exists in Germany. There was an agreement not to start in this cabinet period, but it was agreed in the energy agreement that the cabinet would participate in discussions in this area. I call once again on the Cabinet to be an active participant and to do so. Is the Cabinet prepared to make a concrete proposal in the 2017 Tax Plan on this issue, with the support of its interlocutors, of course? With the money that this generates, we can reduce the tax on labour, so that it becomes cheaper, for example, to hire a truck driver. There's a majority in the Chamber for Greening. I have mentioned a number of proposals. I hope that the Secretary of State will respond to this wish for greening more than in the legislative consultation tomorrow. I'll be on box three, the power tax. We have spent hours on this in the legislative consultation. At first the cabinet wrote twenty sides full about the new system. Then we discussed them at the General Financial Reviews, in a technical briefing, in a discussion with experts and in the legislative consultation last weeks. Many groups, including those of D66, are still not convinced of this still somewhat artificial system. In our view, the cabinet simply wants to camouflage a political disagreement. However, the nature of the animal is just visible in the plan. If the beast looks like a duck, walks like a duck and quacks like a duck, then it's probably a duck. So if the plan looks like a progressive capital tax, if you pay taxes like a progressive capital tax, then it's probably a progressive capital tax. You can see that, because someone with a capital of 2 million is just going to pay €6,000 more tax and someone with little savings is going to pay less. My group also welcomes the latter. However, my group is concerned about the artificial system that has been devised around it, where all assumptions, also known as 'fictions', are stacked together. According to the Secretary of State, is this system really a transitional system? In how many years' time does the Secretary of State really think he can come up with a proposal for a real return? My group calls on him to submit a concrete legislative proposal to the 2017 Tax Plan in order to tax effective returns. That's much more honest. I understand it's complicated, and I understand it can't be tomorrow, but in a year, it's gonna work. Or is the Secretary of State gonna put it on the long track? I come to the innovation side, to the Research and Development Promotion Act. It is intended to stimulate research and innovation. My group feels it is unwise that the proposal does not guarantee that small and medium-sized enterprises will always have a sufficient share of that money. It is precisely a measure such as the Promotion of Research and Development Act that is most effective when it is directed at SMEs, as is shown by OECD research and by law evaluations. That is why there is an amendment from my group together with Mr Dijkgraaf of the SGP, which aims to introduce a ceiling of EUR 20 million. In doing so, we can also further boost the benefits for innovations that companies do below that amount. It's a total of 100 million. What exactly is the reason why the Secretary of State could not go along with that? I still have two specific questions about innovation in the IT sector. We've talked about that before. The Secretary of State and the Cabinet want to change the definition of "software" and actually narrow it down. There is only technical new software if it is recorded in a formal programming language such as Java. However, there are major concerns in the sector, and these are the people who have to work with it and who know about it. There is also confusion about the way in which the cabinet deals with the ruling of the Board of Appeal for Business. They fear that the current definition will put pressure on innovation in software. My question to the Secretary of State is: what problem are we actually solving? Wouldn't it be much better just to stick to the definition that has been used so far? I must confess that I have never received a worried e-mail either because that definition would pose a problem. Then the year that follows can be used to talk to the sector. If something has to change, it can be done together with the sector. I am considering an amendment to keep the matter under review for a year. A similar concern about the ICT sector is about how you deal with outsourcing programming. It found a working method which was also workable for Economic Affairs. I now have the concern that some parts of work that used to qualify for the Wbso are no longer eligible for it. Is that right? Is it indeed a tightening-up? Is it true that things that were allowed to happen in the past are no longer allowed with the Secretary of State's proposal? And then again, my question is: why is that? And do I understand correctly that if the Secretary of State were to say tomorrow, "I'll leave things there for a year" this is possible? Or does my group, in order to change this, have to change something in the law? After reading all the answers, this is still not clear to me. I get the impression that there is no need for a legislative amendment on this point when it comes to outsourcing. I'd like to get a reaction to that. I'm coming to the gift tax. From 2017 everyone can receive €100,000 tax-free on a one-off basis. You're gonna have to use that money for your own place. My group has tabled an amendment to allow this amount to be divided into parts. That sounds like a big profit to me. Not everyone has... What do I say: almost no one has $100,000 on the shelf. This amendment allows you to give money to your 20-year-old child or someone else you're close to, for example for the purchase of a house, and to give another amount ten years later to pay off a mortgage or to help if the house is underwater. I think that's a good idea. We have properly covered that by increasing the tax on shag. Per cigarette, the tax on shag is currently only one third of the tax on filter cigarettes. I'd like to get a response from the Secretary of State. The Secretary of State has also said that he does not really want a great exploration, so to look at the heir and gift tax in broad terms. But doesn't that fit in with a simplification agenda? I continue to find it complicated: all different donations with different goals, with all different people to whom you may or may not give tax-free. There is still a world to be won. For example, I'm thinking of leaving it after your death to non-family members by people who don't have children or no partner. Finally, this brings me to the Payment Domain Act. My group supports the direction of this law. This will make it cheaper for companies to employ people with productivity around the minimum wage. Labour is expensive there, so that seems fine to me, but I still have three concerns. First of all, it is now being adapted in such a way that the relative advantage that an employer would have had if he hired someone with disabilities disappears. That relative advantage is important to my group, because we still have a very long way to go in increasing the opportunities of people with disabilities. My group therefore proposes to change this. I am thinking of tabling an amendment together with Mr Schouten to ensure that, in 2018 and 2019, an employer who hires someone with a disability of between 100% and 120% of the minimum wage will receive not only the low income benefit, but also the bonus for all three years, i.e. the premium discount that currently exists. In doing so, we continue to give these vulnerable groups extra support. Secondly, the low income advantage applies only to people who work 24 hours a week on average for a year. I have expressed concerns about how that will work if, for example, you can get out of welfare work in a job for six months. I think that's a full-fledged job, too. The cabinet uses derogatory language for that, as if it weren't real work. I'm just trying to figure out if we can do something with that. I know that the same applies to Mrs Schouten. The Minister was able to reassure me in the legislative consultation on the annual adjustment of the level of the low income advantage. If more is spent in one year, the low-income advantage is not drastically reduced a year later. That would be some sort of yo-yo policy; I wouldn't want that. Employers need clarity and certainty. Can the Cabinet promise that, if it is considering adjusting the amount of the low-income advantage, it will not publish this to us somewhere on a page in a budget, but will simply inform us in advance? If that is not the case, I am considering tabling an amendment to put it into the law. I'd love it if I didn't have to. Finally, I would like to express my thanks to the Secretary of State for the exemption for benefits in Article 2-Funds, something for which many, including my predecessor Wouter Koolmees, have made their efforts. I am glad that a solution is finally being found for this group now that it is possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u120	I shall now give the floor to Mr Groot. Mrs Schouten asked to speak last.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u121	Mr. Chairman. The 2016 Tax Plan is not only the largest tax plan for years, it is also a politically complicated project, given the divided political landscape in the First and Second Chambers. However, it is worth bringing this to a successful conclusion, because for the first time in years, it is possible to increase purchasing power for millions of people in this country by considerably lower burdens. This amounts to almost €600 per household. This will help to further restore employment, increase consumer confidence and increase investment by businesses and homes. I want to talk today about six topics: tax avoidance, two-earned people, the tax liability in healthcare, RDA and S&D, box 3 and greening. I'll start with tax avoidance. I would also like to thank the Secretary of State for closing the so-called Belgian route. I also appreciate the speedy development of a number of measures to combat tax avoidance arising from European directives and the OECD project Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (BEPS). There is still a long way to go, but we are taking important steps towards a world in which multinationals and wealthy individuals no longer get away with paying taxes. An important step in this respect is the Parent-Subsidiary Directive. That directive prevents companies from having to pay tax twice on the same profit. In practice, however, you often see that there is a double non-taxation. That's being handled now. Chapeau for that, but I am still getting signals that constructions are being rigged from the Netherlands that make the tightening up of the mother-daughter directive a shambles. It seems that the general anti-abuse clause is being implemented very thinly. Mr Omtzig has already pointed this out. The Netherlands assesses whether there is sufficient substance in the company from which that dividend comes, e.g. in Luxembourg, if tax exemption is granted on dividends received. However, it does not look at what is under such a company in Luxembourg. These may be companies where double non-taxation takes place. I hear in the field that these days all kinds of Irish companies are being rigged on a large scale so that double non-taxation can be achieved. That's new business for mailbox companies. Is the Secretary of State prepared to conduct field research into the creation of Irish vehicles? Is he prepared to deal with this if necessary by tightening up the anti-abuse clause and informing the Court by letter? I would then like to see that letter before the debate on tax avoidance and BEPS that has taken place. Then I'm gonna deal with the sole earners. That is most likely the most difficult subject of this Tax Plan. I thank the Secretary of State for all the answers. In the end, I thought it was a very enlightening discussion. I have to say that the difference in the tax burden between the sole earners and the two earners has indeed increased in recent times, especially in the case of lower incomes. That is only to a limited extent due to this Tax Plan. The main reason for this phenomenon is that we have made it more attractive in recent years for low-income sole earners to start working. The comparisons made by the opposition parties are sometimes somewhat forced. You can also give many examples where the difference is not that bad. I mention, for example, a single earner with a buying house and a big mortgage or a single earner with a lot of box 3 power. Through his partner, he can still redeem the entire general tax discount. In practice, the image is nuanced. This is also apparent from the figures, because, as the Secretary of State has written, the average tax burden for two-earners is 20.8% and for single-earners 24.5%. That's a difference, but the difference isn't that big. So the image is nuanced. It has to be borne in mind, therefore, that two earners are relatively less likely to make use of care payments, rent payments and other supplements, as their household income is usually slightly higher on average.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u122	Hearing this story, there's only one question that comes to mind. There is already an amendment on this and Mr Omtzigt has also announced an amendment. This is intended to reduce the benefit for two-earers, the million families with young children who benefit from the tax advantage when both parents start working. It amounts to some €600 annual burden increase for this group. So I can see from Mr Groot's input that he might want to do something about the position of a earner, a earner with a moderate income, are also improving the D66 plans, but that the Labour Party will not go along with plans that destroy jobs and burden those parents with both young children who work more heavily? That step backwards in economic independence isn't gonna happen to the PvdA, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u123	I have already said in the legislative consultation that there is a very good discussion with the Labour Party about slightly different accents, especially if they are accompanied by greening measures. Those proposals were made by the Secretary of State. But, of course, it has to be contained.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u124	In the plans of the three Christian parties and the Socialist Party there is a job fine for families with parents who both want to work, even if they have young children. So that job fine isn't gonna support the Labour Party?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u125	Mr Dijkgraaf's amendment, which takes nearly 300 million out of the IACK, amounts to €600 per household. That's a lot. I don't think that's a good size for this. But again, there is talk with the Labour Party about accent differences. We have said that the number of 35,000 jobs is not sacred, but of course we should not have jobs. We must also have sufficient comfort that we can carry this through both chambers. So we can talk about differences in accents, but within reasonable margins.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u126	A brief question, Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u127	Thank you, Mr President, for this is at the heart of the debate. I'm a little freaked out by this answer. In fact, Mr Groot says that there are less than 35,000 jobs to be created. It shouldn't be zero jobs, but it should be less. Moreover, as long as it is not as high as it is with the three Christian parties and the Socialist Party, the job penalty should be allowed. Have I understood Mr Groot so well?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u128	I understand that the Labour Party is talking about shift of emphasis. That is what I said in the legislative consultation. We also recognise that the difference between single and two-earners has become very large. We would like to move in a little bit, but it has to be contained.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u129	I would like to take a closer look with Mr Groot at Mr Dijkgraaf's amendment. This is going to play a very important role. There's hard negotiations behind the scenes. I would like to put the following to Mr Groot. On the one hand, there is a difference in load pressure between 20.8% and 24.5%, i.e. 3.7%. It is a modest difference in burden. On the other hand, we see the calculation examples put forward by Mr Dijkgraaf, with huge differences of thousands of euros. Mr Dijkgraaf's amendment improves slightly by €650 per household. So that goes for the whole group. Does Mr Groot agree with me that this amendment by Mr Dijkgraaf completely misses the objective he has set himself? It's a tip for the problem group he's naming, while it's driving the whole tax system back in a different direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u130	I agree with Mr Grashoff that the size of these two amendments could be considerably improved.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u131	Do you agree with me that these measures are so generic that you have to shift a huge amount of money when the real problem is not being solved?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u132	These two amendments are very many. I await the answers of the Secretary of State on its impact on the number of jobs. Mr Dijkgraaf states that it will have no effect in the short term and that it will not have any effect in 2040, but in between there are, of course, labour market effects. I'm sure the Secretary of State will shed his light on that tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u133	Otherwise, we have been asked to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u134	I actually heard Mr Groot make very good arguments about this amendment, namely the fact that people with wealth, for example in box 2, can spend part of the profits on the least-earning partner. The same goes for people who have a lot of money in box 3. They can allocate the box 3 revenue to the least-earning partner, which allows them to redeem the transferable tax rebate, even if it is reduced. My question to Mr Groot is whether the system is so unfair that this amendment is a step in the right direction, but that much more is needed to ensure that it or for everyone is reduced, as D66 wants, or made fair, so that everyone can appeal to it regardless of the system chosen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u135	There are a lot of proposals conceivable to make the tax in box 2 and box 3 fair. That is not the case with this Tax Plan, but it is always the case with the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u136	To come back to the point that Mr Groot himself made; people who have an e.g. or money in box 3 can redeem the transferable tax discount, even if it has been completely phased out. That is an essential issue that we cannot simply go around. That is an additional argument to ensure that this transferable tax rebate remains available for the people who need it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u137	On the possibility of avoiding box 3 taxation via box 2 structures, I have a proposal later in my speech, for which I would also like to ask for the support of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u138	One last attempt, or else I'll try to make it perfectly clear. In other words, the general tax rebate will be fully phased out by 2024. But even so, people who have an e.g. or assets in box 3 can cash in the general tax discount for the least-earning or non-working partner. That's the point I'm pointing out. The way the system's working now, it's unfair. People who have wealth or an e.g. can still rely on the transferable tax rebate, while people who do not have it cannot rely on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u139	I agree with Mr Bashir. It is a bottleneck that people with a lot of power and a non-working partner can still cash in on their overall tax discount. That's actually a looming error in the system. It is not easy to solve, but we should see if we can come up with something. I agree with Mr Bashir, but that is not easy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u140	I have an order proposal. I see that the coalition parties consider matters such as the transferable tax rebate and the tax increase for young working parents with children to be negotiable. In any case, that applies to Mr Groot's group. I don't know what Mrs. Neppérus is gonna do yet. I would like to propose that the Minister for Emancipation should also be invited to the cabinet's reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u141	I put it so that this request was made to the cabinet. We will see tomorrow what the cabinet has decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u142	Thank you. I'd like to hear what the cabinet chooses before we start the answer. Could we get a note from the Cabinet stating whether or not the Minister for Emancipation is coming with us?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u143	Honestly, I think that's a little bureaucratic. They're just coming tomorrow, they're invited and they've already promised the Secretary of State to come. Either they send a note one minute before the debate begins, or you can just come here five minutes before the debate starts and you will see if there are one or two seats occupied in Box K.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u144	I look forward to seeing her.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u145	First of all, I would like to say something about the point of order. I'd like to extend that request to the entire cabinet. The Tax Plan has an impact on the whole economy and on everything that is happening in society. So I'd like to see the whole cabinet sitting there tomorrow, including the Prime Minister. I would like to look forward to the government's response to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u146	Mr Groot says that the delta is only 4%, if you calculate the average. I think that's because that number is dominated by low incomes. Let us take a very concrete case. We have a household with a earner who earns €40,000. In the house next door live two earners who both earn €20,000. They both work halfway. That gives you a difference on "you know the pictures," I calculated this amount of €8,000. If what Mr Groot says is true, namely that the difference is only 4%, this should be €1,600. What's the difference of $6,400?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u147	The example given by Mr Dijkgraaf is correct. However, you can also take a lot of other example households where the difference is much smaller. For example, there is a household with a single earner and a house with a very high mortgage. Then the progression of that earner is greatly reduced because of the mortgage interest rate deduction. If you have two very high incomes, it doesn't really matter. So the story of Mr Dijkgraaf is correct. You can always find example houses where the difference is very large. However, the Secretary of State said that there are not so many two-earned people who earn €20,000 each. They are often not comparable to the earner who earns €40,000. So I think these are sought-after examples. They exist, but they're not very representative. You can also give other examples.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u148	Sure. That's what we did. We have compared 20-20-40, 50-30-80, 60-20-80 and 40-40-80 and there are big differences everywhere. More importantly, they're gonna get up, too. Let's take that 50-30-80. The single earner therefore earns €80,000 and the two earners earn €50,000 and €30,000. The difference is €11,000. Mr Groot's 4% amounts to €3,200. So €8,000 benefit disappears because of this progressiveness. Because of this progressiveness, this household has to deduct €80,000 in interest income for the tax. In short, for households like this, you can't get an average of 4%.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u149	I'm basing myself on the Secretary of State's records. The difference between single-earners and two-earers seems plausible to me. The Secretary of State has an average tax burden of 20.8% in one case and 24.5% in the other. However, Mr Dijkgraaf says that the difference is always greater. So this wouldn't be right. That is why I guided the question to the Secretary of State and I ask him to better support it. It seems plausible to me, given the examples I have given. There is no doubt that the Secretary of State will be able to support this further tomorrow. Moreover, the proposal for a regulation seems a little bureaucratic to me too, because we are all aware of the emancipation agenda behind the reduction of the general tax rebate. The further reduction of the general tax rebate in the future is not under discussion either. We'll agree on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u150	This is the tricky part about order proposals. Actually, they go to the chairman. There's not going to be a debate. Now, however, it has become a political point. That is why I give Mr Van Weyenberg the opportunity to ask a question about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u151	It's two-and-a-half. We can support the self-employed position of women and ensure that people with young children who want to combine work and care and both want to continue working get support. That's our plan. However, you can also go along with other parties' plans to increase their tax burden and perhaps even restore some of the countertop subsidies, as Mr Dijkgraaf does passionately. It's two-and-a-half. What do you choose?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u152	Also in the cabinet plan work becomes more attractive, especially for two-earers. Some other accents can be laid. I have already said in the legislative consultation that perhaps some accents can shift. It may be a little less so, but that the Tax Plan continues to focus on promoting work. We're cutting a lot of net taxes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u153	Emancipation, that's what you're going for or not. Mr Groot indicated earlier in the debate that he would like to participate in the wishes of those parties if necessary. However, when I propose to invite the Minister of Empowerment, Mr Groot says that there is no need, because there is nothing going on; all go on. It's one of two, isn't it? Whether it is something we are not going to do from that reply from Mr Groot I would be pleased if Mr Groot is willing to go along with it in part. Earlier, he wanted to be part of it. Is he going to come back to that now?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u154	We keep making it attractive for partners to both work. The IACK will be intensified and we will continue to do so. This plan therefore remains focused on more work by both partners. The general tax reduction has been reduced in the long term, so the emancipation agenda is also respected in this plan. I'm going to go to the tax in the care. Through my fellow speakers in the area of care, I have been reminded that there is a major bottleneck in the taxation of VAT in the care sector. We know that doctors are exempt from VAT on their services, but as soon as they start working with other doctors or other primary care providers, they do have to pay VAT on the coordinating work. This complicates the VAT rate. In addition, it increases costs and works against cooperation. Especially the latter is undesirable, because we see that care for chronically ill is increasingly organised through this type of partnership. I understand that, in order to solve this problem, there is no need for a legislative amendment, but an amendment to the 1968 VAT Implementing Decision. Is the cabinet prepared to take such a decision as my colleague Neppérus of the VVD and I submit an amendment in which we ensure proper coverage? I would like an answer to this tomorrow. If this is positive, we will table such an amendment. Then I'll come to the RDA and S&D arrangements. Much has already been exchanged on the merging of these two incentive schemes. That merger is fine. The scheme will be simpler. That solves a lot of silvering problems. However, the PvdA continues to consider it a risk that the new scheme does not have a ceiling. The PvdA remains concerned that some multinationals are draining the pot at the expense of small companies. I now understand from the answers given by the Secretary of State that he does not share that fear on the basis of realistic estimates of research expenditure by large companies. What is more important to me is that the cabinet undertakes that, if the budget is exceeded, it will not be reported to small businesses. That sounds a lot better, but still doesn't reassure me. If there is a significant overrun and if the account is not to be placed on small businesses, there are only two tastes left: either the budget should be increased or the excess should be compensated by the same large companies. Is the cabinet prepared to say that, if it does happen that some large companies are emptying out the pot, the cabinet does not expect it, but it can happen anyway, the compensation for this is found at those large companies themselves? That would be so pure, because if the cabinet really believes that these large companies will not cause overruns, the commitment that large companies should compensate if that overrun does occur does not hurt. I'm going into box 3. We have already talked a great deal in the legislative consultation about a better levy in box 3. My conclusion is that, despite all the criticism, this bill has been properly considered. It is not about a stack of fictions, but it is about better matching existing fictions with reality. The new rates are not expected returns but average historical returns. There is no wet fingering, not even in the calculation of the bond yield. In line with the rising average in savings rates, the capital charge for small savers is very likely to fall further in the coming years. All parties should welcome this, because 90% of taxpayers will pay less. The turning point is €460,000. That is why I think this is a good proposal, but it seems that Mr Omtzig is not.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u155	Why is the 4% that is now an expected return on government bonds a figure that is closer to reality than the 4% that you now expect to make on all your savings?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u156	This discussion was also held in the legislative consultation. These new rates are not expected returns, but on average historically determined returns. Every year they are adapted to the past few years, so if you keep this system going long enough we're going to go to real returns, so that won't take that long. Then you're getting closer and closer to the reality that's happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u157	For the savings rate, this is going to be on average over the last five years, but if you did that for the bond rate, you would be well below 4%. Thus, the government considered it necessary to provide funds over a longer period of time or, as stated in the explanatory memorandum, has looked at what is a balanced situation according to the Central Planning Bureau. So that has nothing to do with looking back on the past. Doesn't the PvdA see that there's an inconsistency in it to achieve a purpose-based reasoning so that you can introduce a progressive capital tax, whereas you can't in any way make a 4% return if you buy a ten-year state loan now?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u158	In the legislative consultation, there has been a wide-ranging discussion on how these bond yields have been determined. Then it is not just about coupon interest rates but also about the portfolio, the price increases of bonds. If you follow the moving average long enough, it'll mean itself. The Secretary of State also stated in detail that this was not a purpose-based argument, because 4% came out and there was some money left. That was the closing point in the whole story to increase that exemption at the foot from €21,000 to €25,000 euros, which also pleased the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u159	If you buy a government bond with 0.7% interest, you know one thing for sure: it will never increase very much in value, because the interest rate should be negative for ten years. Even so, it would only rise a few percent. So that's not gonna happen. In fact, if the interest rate goes up, then all bond prices fall and you have a negative return. Does the PvdA think it is desirable that if you make such a negative return on what relatively risk-free bonds should be, you still assume 4% return?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u160	If the bond rate is now 0.7% and falls to 0.3% for a long-term bond, you get a very high price gain on such a bond. So that could happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u161	The SP Group wants a millionaire tax for people who have more than EUR 1 million, and indeed we want to tax real capital gains through a capital gains tax. The proposal now before us is a step in the direction of the SP proposal, so as far as we are concerned, it is a step in the right direction. We have just heard Mr Omtzigt's contribution. The CDA wants this proposal to be removed from the tax package. Is it possible for the PvdA Group to discuss the fact that the Tax Plan is being chopped up and that this piece is being taken out?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u162	The capital efficiency levy and this debate on box 3 are an integral part of the discussions we have had on the tax revision. This is, of course, part of this whole Tax Plan package. That is why we believe that this is just part of it and that it should not be cut loose. Furthermore, thanks to the SP's view that this new form of capital efficiency levy is a step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u163	Yeah, it's a step in the right direction, but it's a temporary one. We do, of course, want the Cabinet to do everything in its power to bring about a real capital gain tax. If I understand correctly, is it not possible for the PvdA Group to take the proposals on the assets out of the tax package?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u164	The cut-off isn't the issue. As far as we are concerned, we are simply voting on this whole Tax Plan, including the whole box 3 proposal. The Secretary of State has defended it very well and we have talked about it for a long time. It is an integral part of the Tax Plan. I now come to my final topic: greening. The PvdA is pleased that there is still a lot of greening on the agenda in this debate on the Tax Plan. There will be a re-launch for the expansion of the postcode rose scheme for the generation of electricity from sun and wind. It also appears that there will be a substantial shift of higher taxation on natural gas and lower taxation on electricity. This way we save the Groningen gas bubble and stimulate heat pumps and electric driving. It is also important to return to business, which will take shape by reducing the Aof premium. This can also be seen as a reduction in the burden on labour.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u165	I am also, of course, glad that it has been put on the agenda. I happen to know how it got on the agenda. That was not thanks to the Party of the Arbied; perhaps we should also mention it. Perhaps there is some cooperation, because the suggestions made by the Secretary of State have not yet been translated into amendments. What if I were to accept Mr Wiebes' suggestions about the shifts in gas and electricity? He takes a slightly different approach from what I did in the amendment I tabled earlier, but if I accept his suggestions, will Mr Groot support it? Is he even prepared to table such an amendment with me? I am quite prepared to do so; I am now alone above it, but then we are both going to be above it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u166	There are several amendments in which greening plays a role. I will also come up with such an amendment myself. In the end, depending on the reaction of the Secretary of State, we are going to look at what amendments we can support and which we can not. It must fit in with an overall picture in which we as a coalition and as a Chamber have the comfort that this is a composite package that could come through both Chambers. Mr Grashoff is therefore a little too early with his question. I refer him to tomorrow, after the Secretary of State's answers have come.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u167	I would like to put a follow-up question to this, but don't. I'm just gonna get another subject right now. Mr Groot does not mention the suggestion on energy taxation for large consumers that has been made. The Secretary of State also responded to this. He raises all kinds of objections, but doesn't say "it doesn't know, it can't and I don't want to." It's a little bit in between. In addition, the position of the metallurgical and mineralogic industries is emerging. This is a consequence of the fact that, at European level, a wonderful compromise has once made it possible for such exemptions to exist. This means that we have a problem with the level playing field. Is Mr Groot prepared to table an amendment with me which would involve a substantial increase in the energy tax for large consumers with a gross yield of around 200 million, with an exemption for the metallurgical and mineralogic industries? Would Mr Groot be prepared to support with me a motion asking the government to get rid of these exemptions as quickly as possible in a European context?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u168	The latter is very appealing to me. I do not go directly over it, but I see with Mr Grashoff the need for this. It is precisely in this area that Europe can bring added value. If you want to create a level playing field, you must do so throughout Europe. Europe should really do something about this. Mr Grashoff also referred to an amendment. I have also tabled an amendment on taxation for large consumers. I shall refer that amendment to the Secretary of State and to the other parties. If Mr Grashoff's amendment proves to be better, I will withdraw my own amendment. However, in the end we will only consider which amendments we can support and which we will not.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u169	Please continue with your speech, Mr Groot.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u170	I come now to that point of the large consumers. We know they're paying very little tax now. This certainly applies to users who heat large-scale gas. On the other hand, we see that our metal industry and our ceramic industry must compete with other companies in Europe that are exempt from energy taxation. I have tabled an amendment on this subject which would allow us to do this smarter. I have not yet seen the amendment in my mailbox, but I have submitted it. We can do this smarter, where companies that heat large offices and are therefore large consumers are going to pay a little more. We can then use this money to exempt the mineralogic industry and the metal industry which are also exempted elsewhere in Europe. My proposal is budget-neutral. At the same time, it is good for the economy and it produces net greening. I am very curious to hear the government's opinion on this. I think I speak on behalf of the whole Parliament when I say that we should be glad that, after a lot of hard years, we can finally reduce taxes on citizens again. There has been a lot of talk in this tax debate about missed opportunities. I don't think we should miss this opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u171	I would like to add to what Mr Groot said in his speech. He said, after a number of tough years, we can now lower the tax again. I took the coalition chord for a while. It says that an income picture with more demand as income increases will be the starting point. I also took the figures on the performance of the cabinet. Then I have to look at the income picture between 2013 and 2016, which includes the data for next year. What does that prove? People earning less than 17 per cent of the statutory minimum wage will increase by 0.6% during that period. For example, people who earn more than 500% of the statutory minimum wage are improving 2.4%. The people in the income group underneath, who earn between 350% and 500% of the statutory minimum wage, are improving by 4.4%. There's something else in the coalition agreement. So the practice is that the VVD has got its way more.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u172	On the other hand, we hear from Mr Van Dijck that there has never been more levelled than in the present cabinet period. Mr Bashir is now saying that there is no levelling at all and that income disparities are being increased. What is wisdom? In my view, wisdom is that we have a firm intention to reduce the income gap over the entire current cabinet period, in accordance with the agreements contained in the government agreement. I hold to the argument that in this Tax Plan, the people with low incomes and those with middle incomes are buying bacon and making the most of it, and that we are promoting labour with this plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u173	Mr Groot says I say things, but I do not think of them myself. They're from the Macro Economic Exploration 2016. What I am saying is also confirmed in the written reply. The fact is that the figures show that income disparities have increased in the period 2013 to 2016. We can continue to discuss the question of this now or not, but the facts are as they are. I would ask Mr Groot to look at our proposals as well. We say: use the money that now goes to people with an income above €65,000, that tax advantage of €1,000, well for everyone. Use it for low-income people, for middle-income people and for non-working people. Then everyone's getting better. Do I think that Mr Groot is on my side to help that amendment to a majority?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u174	We always want to look at proposals. Mr Bashir is now talking about extending the third disc. You shouldn't look at them in isolation. This is to be seen in conjunction with the reduction of the general tax rebate. You can't just pull that off. And I insist that this Tax Plan is a major step forward for low and middle incomes, for workers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u175	We hope that after the vote this will also apply to parents with young children who both want to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u176	I hope so, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u177	But my question is about something else. I have heard Mr Groot talk about the Wbso and the merger with the RDA. There is an amendment tabled by Mr Dijkgraaf and myself to ensure that small and medium-sized enterprises, start-ups and family businesses keep enough of the innovation money. In the legislative consultation, Mr Groot was extremely sympathetic to that amendment. He now speaks in more thoughtful terms. Is he still on our side, anyway? Is he not convinced by the government's answers so far not to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u178	If that budget is exceeded, I share that concern with Mr Van Weyenberg, then the Secretary of State guarantees that it will not be recovered from small businesses. That's getting better. I have also said that I do not think that this commitment is enough, because I do not want to be put on the spot in the sense that we need to increase the budget. So I also want the undertaking that this will be withdrawn from large companies if an overrun occurs. But first, I await the Secretary of State's answer on this point. Perhaps that is even better than Mr Van Weyenberg's amendment, which, moreover, I am unavoidably sympathetic to.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u179	In the legislative consultation, Mr Groot said: I am not convinced so far. From the fact that he keeps asking questions, I would point out that he is still not convinced by the cabinet not to support the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u180	I felt a little challenged when Mr Groot suddenly said the sentence: I think I speak on behalf of the whole Parliament when I say that it is so good to be able to carry out 5 billion relief. It would be good if Mr Groot would continue to speak for himself, because if you woke me up in the middle of the night and asked "what would you like, 5 billion relief or a substantial contribution to solving our climate problem or unemployment?', Then I would choose to do so and hand in the whole 5 billion relief for that. This is really on the cabinet's behalf.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u181	Then I did not speak on behalf of Mr Grashoff. I also very much share his desire to do much more about greening. We must also continue to load this agenda constantly, but many people in this country have had a very difficult time in recent years. They are now in need of a form of purchasing power support.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u182	In the legislative consultation, the PvdA spokesperson said that there was a PvdA department in the border region that had chosen not to refuel across the border. I thought that was a very commendable proposal, because then we would have no border effects and then all my arguments would be invalid. Does Mr Groot know which PvdA department that was?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u183	I haven't checked that out yet. I haven't had time for that yet. That still leaves Mr Omtzigt too well. He's jumping to the conclusion that that would mean that there are no border effects. I didn't say that. I just said you could look at that border issue differently. You can also make the call to people: support your own pump holders and just pay the same as other people in the country. Of course, that doesn't mean that people have the freedom to choose what they want, but it doesn't matter if you, as a politician, call on people to go and refuel abroad or if you, as a politician, also in the spirit of the CDA's ideas, call on people to show solidarity and continue to fill up with their own pump holder.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u184	We have all confessed whether we are filling up in the Netherlands or not. Indeed, I am filling up in the Netherlands, but I can assure you that this has been said quite easily on a salary as a Member of Parliament. I look forward to Mr Groot's second-term answer to the question of where that happens.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u185	That's good. It's a job to show up tomorrow, but I think it's gonna work.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u186	Mr Klein has indicated that he is going to speak for about 12 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u187	Mr. Chairman. In the legislative consultation I, as an independent group, have already advocated solutions to a number of unfair taxes, such as inheritance taxes. I'm not gonna do that again tonight. However, I have tabled two amendments with cover. An amendment to abolish inheritance tax and a second amendment to stimulate innovation among more independent entrepreneurs, by reducing the Wbso standard to 400 hours, while keeping the starters-Wbso. Then I would like to put to the Secretary of State the problem that might arise in the event of a divorce. The answer to this question is really insufficient. I'm gonna go back and explain. A divorced person often also has to pay rent and care payments, when the ex-partner earns more in the year they are still fiscal partners. An example from my mailbox. A wife and her husband were divorced in April 2013. Up to the moment of separation, both of them live on welfare benefits. After the divorce, the former husband started earning more. This led to the women receiving a total recovery of €2,096 in 2015. This concerns the recovery of the care allowance, the child allowance and the rent allowance. That woman is an unmarried mother with a 3-year-old child, with a sudden increase in debt of thousands of euros, without any prospect of getting rid of this debt in the long run. She has not benefited from the fact that her former husband has made more money. Also, she never received alimony from the husband. It is therefore very unfair for her to have to repay these supplements. The problem lies in the General Law income-dependent schemes, the Awir. This includes the term "partner'. It follows from this law that people cannot be partners for part of the year, but that they are partners for the whole year. As a result, as the ex-partner's income rises, the combined income also increases. This will ensure that the fees are refunded. Before 2012, there was still a solution to this, the so-called 10% regime. In the explanatory memorandum of this 2004 Act, on which this 10% scheme was based, it states: "If partners depart, the chosen system may lead to undesirable outcomes if the former partner's income increases significantly after his departure. The same applies when a fellow resident leaves. In the case of the interested party, the capacity in the partner period would then be affected by an increase in income which occurred only afterwards and from which it could not benefit. The solution to this problem is based on a lower assessment income of the partner at the request of the person concerned in the year of divorce or departure of a cohabitant. The law sets out how that review income should be calculated in those situations." That's the 10% rule. But that solution was deleted in 2012. Moreover, the problem which has been identified as unfair and unbalanced elsewhere in the explanatory memorandum in question is still there, and the solution has been removed from the law. The Secretary of State is now saying that this scheme was abolished at the time, because it was a complex scheme which was not used enough. I think that the fact that a welfare mother could suddenly incur a debt of over €2,000 would be enough reason to take action. I've come up with a liberal solution for this. In the legislative consultation I submitted it to the Secretary of State and the Chamber. My proposal is that people with minimum benefits should always receive the maximum supplement in the event of changes in the household situation. The State Secretary's reaction was that this would require such a radical and fundamental change that it would miss its goal of solving a relatively minor problem. The Secretary of State says it's a relatively limited group. However, a few thousand people are affected by an unjust measure. Does that mean the Secretary of State is saying they're just unlucky? That's unbelievable. The Secretary of State seems to accept that the woman, from the example I mentioned, is forced into debt as a result of his policy. I can't settle for this. The Secretary of State shouldn't do that either. If my simple solution doesn't work, how else can we solve this? I'd like an answer from the Secretary of State. How does he prevent people from being the victims of a system error and that surcharges must be reimbursed? I would like to make a comment on the completely out of balance debate on the single earner. It has been checked by nrc.next: a single earner pays up to five times as much tax. From a liberal perspective, the starting point should be a liberal and free choice as to how income is acquired. There has been talk of two-earers and economic independence, but people must have a free choice and they must not be punished for the choice they make. The opposite must not happen either. There can also be a problem if there is in fact no free choice. This may be due to a partner's illness, but that is also often the case when people just don't get to work. Many 45-plussers have something to do with that. Then it makes no sense for a earner to pay more taxes. That's unfair. There must be a balanced tax system whereby the reduction that is possible despite this cabinet as a result of an economic recovery is actually fair. The same applies to the purchasing power effects for pensioners. Those seem to be good for 2016, but that's appearance. The figures relating to the old age discount have been misunderstood. People are made happy with the message that things are going from bad to less bad. The negative income developments are also reflected in the letter from the joint elderly organisations that we received on 9 November. I ask the Secretary of State to respond to that letter and to take care of it, if this is possible. I look forward to the Secretary of State's response with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u188	Thank you very much, Mr Klein. I shall then give the floor to Mr Grashoff. I understand he's not here right now. Then I suggest that we move on to Mr Van Vliet. I see Mr Van Vliet needs to finish his phone call. That is what has happened here. I see that Mr Grashoff is here again, but I now give the floor to Mr Van Vliet. He has indicated his desire to speak for a minute or ten.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u189	I was just on the phone with my sweetheart, so, yeah, you can walk out of the room. Mr. Chairman. That is where we stand in the great SPS debate, in the great debate about the chair dance for support in the Senate. The choice is between a man with a white beard in the clouds, who is of the Christian parties, and the hulk, the green hero of the green parties. For me, it means choosing the least of two evils. I therefore ask the Secretary of State to do the following. What's the rack? To what extent is he prepared to give the representatives of one of these two lines their way? If my analysis comes out in the Financial Daily, it's gonna be the man with the white beard, maybe with some green beard hair in between. But how far is the Secretary of State willing to go? To what extent is he prepared to deviate from the tax plan presented by the coalition parties and the cabinet? To what extent is the Secretary of State going to deviate from that? What is the scope of commitments? Is everything aimed at getting it through the First Chamber? I have said it before: I am very sorry that everything here has to be about the majority in the Senate, while the political primacy must be here and nowhere else than here. Let them figure it out in the First Chamber! I know it's easy for me to talk because I don't have a senate group. I am therefore under no illusions that I can break such large pots here. Nevertheless, I have tabled a budget, which has been passed on by the CPB, which shows two things. First of all, public debt will be better placed. It is rising less rapidly than in the government's plans. Secondly, employment is growing more rapidly. Yeah, I make sacrifices for that, too, but I'm willing to defend them. Unfortunately, as a realist, I realize that my budget is not going to make it. It's not gonna be like this, but I expect it won't make it. So, what do I do? Choosing from the least of two evils? Well, at least I'm going for relief. As a constructive member of the opposition, I would be prepared to vote in favour of the Cabinet's Tax Plan, provided that the Secretary of State, and that is why I asked him just this question: do not let this plan water down too much with the wishes of the Christian right or the Green parties. How far does the Secretary of State go with this and to what extent will a watered-down plan be drawn up, on which I must think again? When I look at the plans before us, I say that the tax plan can have my support as a second if my own budget does not make it. This also applies to the Bill on Compensation for Wages, including the Article 2-Fund Benefits and the exemptions and also to the amendments to the Parent-Subsidiary Directive that we are about to introduce here. However, I have put on the table a number of points in the legislative consultation that I do have questions about. In the comparison between one earners and two earners, I notice one thing. That comparison is always about one doll that earns €80,000 gross versus two dolls that make €80,000 together. Or one doll earns €60,000 and two earns €60,000 together. In my view, a fair comparison is the comparison in which the person earning the salary is judged on their own merits, which means that, in my view, you have to compare someone earning €80,000 gross with a couple earning €80,000 per person. You might want to add that up. How much do they pay more than the person who earns that amount on his own? Now, that's a comparison where we have to stop for once. I would also like to say that, at the request of Mr Dijkgraaf's SGP in particular, we have had the Van Dijkhuizen Committee's report drawn up. That report is now in drawer 3 of wardrobe 17. Are we doing something with that or not? I would like to hear the Secretary of State's opinion on this. I think that report cost a sweet dime. There were also some interesting points. Does the Secretary of State look at that every now and then? I come to the specific points that I myself have put on the table. I have tabled two amendments, which have been distributed through Parlis. I'm considering filing two motions. The amendments deal with the following points. I have tabled an amendment on country-by-country reporting within the framework of the Common Reporting Standard and so on. I accept that amendment that the turnover of a multinational should be reduced to 500 million instead of 750 million. I think you are entitled to do so before that companies that achieve substantial turnover with their activities in several countries at the same time simply have to meet this new standard. My other amendment concerns the cost of working. In doing so, I will ensure that the 1.2% free space cannot be abused by employers by parking cash rewards in it. I have found that this does happen with bonuses and all kinds of gratifications. I heard a vague answer from the Secretary of State during the legislative consultation that a gratification might be a common thing that you give to someone who has worked very hard for that. Ammehula! If I worked hard in business, I got gratuities too, but I just had to pay taxes on it. The basis of the payroll tax in the Netherlands is that you pay payroll tax on all benefits arising from the employment, regardless of whether there is a final charge. But you just have to rap. 1.2% of free space is about combating the costs that an employee incurs and not about bonuses and gratifications. That is why I have tabled an amendment to block that road to cash and to prevent the original intention of this instrument from being abused. I come to the interest deduction in corporation tax, in particular the reduction in interest relief. We now have a range of limitations. They show a kaleidoscopic image. I specifically asked in the legislative consultation about, among other things, Article 10b of the Corporate Tax Act 1969. I asked at the time whether we should not abolish that article because it is not being used. The answer in the written reply was that it is indeed "little" applied, but has a preventive effect. My question to the Secretary of State is: how often has Article 10b been applied by inspectors in the last three years in tax practice to refuse interest relief from a corporate tax liability? If that would be zero times, or once or twice, then I say in my turn: we have to get rid of Article 10b. It is a pollution of our legal apparatus to apply interest relief restrictions. We also get an update on the implementation of the Mother-Subsidiary Directive 2015. I want to make the fan smaller. Then unnecessary rules have to come out. I am considering tabling a motion on this point in the second term. I come to the deduction of expenditure on monuments located in other EU Member States or the EEA. I asked in the legislative consultation how we are going to check whether such monuments fit into the Dutch cultural heritage history. The Netherlands has concluded many bilateral tax treaties, including with all EU Member States and, in my view, with all EEA States. These bilateral tax treaties are based on the OECD Model Convention. What's in it? It states, I say to all, that taxation of a property is assigned to the State where that property is situated. What do we do now? We allow the deduction of expenditure on buildings that are not located in the Netherlands but in countries with which we have such a bilateral tax treaty. Then the end is lost, isn't it? We're gonna turn the dime around and give someone even more advantage than they already would on the basis of other arrangements. In any case, a tax treaty does not create tax rights but allocates them to a State. That principle is now being crossed by this scheme to allow deduction of expenditure on monuments, whatever that may be, in the Netherlands, whereas those buildings are not located in the Netherlands. I would like to have an extensive view of this from the Secretary of State. I am considering tabling a motion on this point in the second term. It is clear that I want to support the Tax Plan that is now before me as a second best option. However, I ask the Secretary of State very seriously what he thinks of all the sounds of the Christian right and the green left. How far is he willing to go? My final comment is about box 3. I also made this point in the legislative consultation. If we are going to tax the real rate of return for this purpose, there is a broad wish in the Chamber and I have that wish, of course, because everything is better than fictitious return.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... That's where I'm gonna give the Secretary of State air. In this respect, I am also prepared to accept the proposal as it stands. However, I would ask him to comment explicitly on the difference between a capital gain tax and a capital increase tax. In my opinion, a capital increase tax will not be a good alternative to the actual return. Ideal is a capital gain tax. It has been demonstrated in several countries that such a system can work. I would like to get the views of the Secretary of State on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u190	The Secretary of State has stated that he does not think the capital gains tax is such an appealing idea either. A capital gain tax is very fragile in terms of tax constructions, because then you can postpone taxes indefinitely and you can shift to equity titles that only yield price gains. Then you'll have to wait until the price gains are realized, but that's never gonna happen. So the capital gains tax is as leaky as a basket. Mr Van Vliet shouldn't want that either, should he?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u191	No, I certainly don't want a leaky basket. Here's what I said. If we now agree to this interim proposal, so I see the secretary of state's office, we will have some breathing space to work towards a model for taxing the real rate of return. If you make the most of that breathing room, what do you do? Then you really learn from the systems in the surrounding countries. These are also countries where a capital gains tax system exists. If there are possible leaks in it and you list them thoroughly, you can quietly work on a model in the Netherlands in which you close those holes in advance. We have talked about the British model, and I did not agree with the Secretary of State's analysis that this should be referred to the realm of fables because it is as leaky as a basket. This involved an exemption and a threshold. If you take it out, the Secretary of State's whole story that the system in the UK wouldn't work isn't worth much more. So my point is: learn from the countries in which they have a capital gains tax system and then come up with a proposal on which we can all talk, which I think can work and which is still closed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u192	I propose that, before we proceed with Mr Grashoff's contribution, we suspend five minutes for a short sanitary stop.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u193	Mr. Chairman. What does a tax plan have to do? What should the Tax Plan do here and now in the Netherlands? You can summarize that very briefly. It should provide considerably more work, significantly greening and contribute to reducing inequality. These are the criteria against which the GroenLinks Group has weighed the cabinet's proposals for the Tax Plan. If we have to add a more general criterion to that, I could say that the Tax Plan should also contribute to a certain simplification. At least that was one of the wishes of the Secretary of State himself. More work? It is extremely thin, while there is so much room in the Tax Plan to actually contribute to employment. There would have been very different models and possibilities. In the field of greening, the Tax Plan delivers zero point zero. However, some points have been raised in the debate. I did my best to do that. In any case, I was serious, but perhaps I have put forward all too reasonable proposals. I am criticized here and there that the proposals made by GroenLinks in this Tax Plan are too reasonable. At least I see that so far they are not equally embraced by everyone. In terms of reducing inequality, one could say that there is a small point of light, namely capital taxes. A small but very relevant step is being taken in changing capital taxes. However, the question is whether this will remain, because if the CDA or Mr Omtzigt does not get his right, he is going to delete it neatly. He has even tabled an amendment to delete it. Mr Groot has made it clear that he does not intend to move on this. Does that also apply to the Secretary of State? I am very curious to know how this will come to an end, because I understand that this is conditional. This could thus significantly change the playing field. My group would welcome that, because then we might also be able to do very good business with this cabinet in the area of employment and greening. On greening and more employment, I would like to emphasise that I do so once again, perhaps in abundance, that taking greening measures will give tax space to reduce the burden on labour. This contributes to greening and employment. I would also like to stress that there is another route, which is at least partly applicable. The revenues from tax greening measures can be made directly available for triggering investment from both the public and private sectors. The fact that the latter option is always somewhat out of the picture, perhaps because models take too little account of it or are not susceptible to it at all, is a pity. We can see from the development of last year's economy that a significant part of the economic recovery comes from the construction sector. There is investment in renovation and new construction of homes. What would be better than reducing too much gas in the Netherlands while at the same time creating and stimulating opportunities to invest in housing insulation, to renew installations and to encourage alternatives to combustion with a gas boiler, both for small and large consumers? We'd hit two birds with one stone. This will stimulate employment in the short term, because investment will generate jobs in the short term and not in the long term. In this way, we could actually make a dent in a package of butter in terms of the far too high number of unemployed in the Netherlands. But we're not there yet. I have put forward proposals. From the start, I said I was just putting the cards on the table, very realistic. This means that there is at least a lot of talk about it, but also that in the reactions of the Secretary of State it was an asset in terms of economy. Let me go through the five proposals. At the loading stations we encounter a European problem. I can only conclude that that is the case; I remain my case for the moment. However, I would like to repeat Mr Van Weyenberg's remark: let us also see what can be done in this area. We have not yet received an answer. I would also like to mention a glimmer of light in relation to the postcode rose. In the meantime, an amendment on the postcode rose has been tabled, so I think I can say something about that. Mrs Schouten, Mr Van Weyenberg and I will be coming up with an amendment in a moment that will actually increase the postal code rose, but also brings the zero rate. Let us see that as a glimmer of light. I know that this has already been dealt with enormously, but that could finally lead to an arrangement whereby we actually get a lot more solar panels, especially on roofs in the Netherlands. That too is the triggering of investment. The next proposal concerns the coal tax. That is simply said: that cannot be done, that does not exist, because we have an energy agreement. It's the same mantra over and over again. That is very unfortunate, because this is a very significant proposal. We are far from sure about the closure of coal power stations, not even with the decision that has been sent, because it still seems to have legal ramifications and clamps on it. The most effective way to do that is and will continue to be the coal tax, but that still seems to be an unpassable route for the cabinet. It is a no-goarea, whereas common sense actually says: let us get into it now, because then you can start working again on closing down and accelerating the coal plants that actually contribute to the climate problem on a large scale. Moreover, you also bring in money at the same time, in this case for example for the reduction of the burden on labour. Then we are really moving a lot further in the right direction. This is interesting, but this proposal is simply wiped off the table. In fact, there is always a lack of arguments, except that there is an energy agreement. But everyone knows by now that if we want to get close to the objectives that we need to achieve and which we would also like to achieve in the context of the Urgenda case's statements, we will have to touch on the energy agreement. This is a big missed opportunity. I continue to stress that this would be one of the things that would allow us to move forward. This could also contribute significantly to obtaining support for the Tax Plan, at least from my group. I have come up with a proposal on energy taxation for large consumers, which was closely linked to the thoughts expressed in an earlier letter from the Secretary of State. I have proposed a rather modest increase of more than 7% overall. The reaction to this is: it cannot be done, because we need an exemption for the metallurgical and mineralogic industries. Against my will, I would be inclined to amend my amendment in that direction and to introduce that exemption if the Cabinet, the Secretary of State, were prepared to really get rid of that exemption in a European context. Because the only reason we couldn't do that right now is because we are dealing with an uneven playing field within the European Union. If we were to pursue this combination and actually do something about it, I would be prepared to settle for such an exemption from the level playing field for the moment. But at the same time we have to work together to get rid of that weird race to the bottom. Fortunately, Mr Groot has responded positively to this. I have a motion in preparation. I will be happy to present it, but it is not quite ready, otherwise I would have tabled the motion now. But we still have time for that. Finally, I would like to comment on the energy tax for small consumers. The Secretary of State reacts slightly differently to this in that he chooses a slightly different approach to the original amendment. That is not inexcusable to us. In fact, in the meantime, I have tabled an amendment which deals with the ideas outlined by the Secretary of State. That's not because we think it's better, but because it's more or less equivalent. If this is a more passable road, I'm realistic enough to look at it. It is, of course, about what we do with the proceeds. If this yield is used to help a earner in an inadequate and ineffective way, as in the proposals that come along, then we will not support it. I have amended the amendment and yet I have tabled it again. When using the proceeds, we go back to the Aof premium as far as companies are concerned. That is also a reduction in the burden on labour. You could do it differently, but we think it fits. As far as households are concerned, it is partly reflected in the general tax rebate and partly in the large corporate housing sector. I also received another incredibly economical response from the Secretary of State. There is a problem with this group of housing, which is a low-use housing corporation scheme, because it is inadequate and does not provide sufficient incentives. If there is a major impact somewhere, when it comes to sustainability, investment, work and reducing gas consumption, it is in the built environment. We could achieve a hugely important effect here. This can also counteract any negative purchasing power effects. What more do you want? Then all of a sudden we get the spending framework. Fine, of course, but if you slide for 5 billion and you want to put 60 million into big corporate homes, is that significant for the spending framework? I commend the Secretary of State for a positive response. You can adjust the Incentive Scheme energy performance rental sector so that it is better used. The budget which one of the other rulers is threatening to retain is being used or used. That extra budget could really be a flywheel. Let's just do that, then we'll really get a move on. So much for the greening. Apparently, we're a long way from getting here. I remain an optimist, sometimes against my better judgment, but I challenge the Secretary of State and the other political groups to go along with this. When it comes to the Income Tax Act or the Low Income Benefit, as I call it, we broadly agree with the cabinet's proposal. We are not in favour of raising the standard of 24 hours a week, because we think that work can be very good for 24 hours a week. We don't have to bring it down any further. Like Mr Van Weyenberg, we are wondering whether it might be wise to allow a slightly shorter contract period, so as to enable the step of assistance to work, which is unfortunately often temporary work. From work to work is still many times easier than from assistance to work, so I am inclined to move a bit and my question to the Secretary of State is to go along with that. Finally. I have deliberately opted for a somewhat strange interruption in the direction of Mr Groot, but I am also happy to repeat it to Mr Dijkgraaf later. In the case of the single-earners, as some parties have put on the table, there is a 3.7% difference in the burden burden on the one hand and on the other hand very specific examples of thousands of euros difference in the tax burden on the other. I can only conclude that Mr Dijkgraaf's amendment does not solve the problem that he himself raises. It actually only contributes to reducing the already small difference of 3.7% in a direction that we as a party of emancipation would not pursue. If this problem needs to be addressed because there are very uneven situations, in the context of family care or care tasks, then we would like to think along with it, but not with this ineffective, generic measure, which has been put forward by the Christian Union, the SGP and the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u194	Mr Bashir would like to ask a question about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u195	I was just talking to Mr Groot about it. In fact, we have known for years that the reduction of the general tax rebate is particularly true for those on low incomes. Those who have a lot of income, for example from a company or savings, can benefit the partner who does not work. For example, the general tax rebate is still paid in cash. All these years we have not received any proposals from GroenLinks to do anything about it. I do not think there is anything you can do about it either, because it is very complicated, as Mr Groot just said. However, now that we are proposing to reverse the injustice done to some people, Mr Grashoff is suddenly calling for emancipation. Where was GroenLinks then in recent years?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u196	Mr Bashir can always discuss with me and my group whether or not we have taken certain issues sufficiently seriously. Generically, we think it is logical that there is a difference in the tax burden between one earner and two earners. That's what we stand for. That's what we wanted with each other. That 3.7% doesn't scare me. I think that's quite reasonable. This is an important incentive to achieve a proportional distribution of labour in the 21st century from the dominant household model of the 1950s. That process still needs to be continued, so we are not ready to get rid of it altogether. This incentive is simply important to continue, whether in models it creates an x number or a y number of jobs. That's point one. Over time, we have often made proposals, often together with the SP, for certain social situations, such as situations involving disabled children or family care. I am always prepared, also within the framework of this Tax Plan, to consider specific measures that address such a problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u197	I welcome these proposals to address these specific problems. Now, however, it is important that we have a big difference between one earner and two earners. That difference can no longer be explained. It only affects some groups, such as low-income people and those who only have an income from work. For example, people who have a lot of savings or shares in companies can still redeem the transferable tax credit, even if in 2024, as GroenLinks wants, transferability will be completely abolished. I do not understand why you would want to cut down on a group, a group that for any reason has no choice, and that you do not do so for another group, which can use tricks and tricks that are very difficult to deal with.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u198	I am prepared to look together with Mr Bashir at where you can actually do something about imbalances. However, let us note that Mr Dijkgraaf's amendment, which was also tabled by the SP, saves €650 per household, and that this is set against examples of thousands of euros difference in tax burden. The SP does not solve this problem with this amendment. However, the party does attract a huge change, generically, in a situation where the total difference is only 3.7% in burden. That means the SP is firing the misdirected cannon at this mosquito. On real issues and problems, however, I would like to be prepared to do something about this. I do not have the wisdom to see what we can do about it. One of the options discussed in the debate is the TOG-plus scheme. It seems much more specific and much more focused. I'd like to get to work on that. I was pretty much at the end of my speech. I wonder how we're gonna get out of here. It is striking that the amendment of the Christian Union, the SGP and the SP has not been signed by the CDA. The CDA has also tabled an amendment that touches on the IACK, which has been reassigned to the assistance. So I wish the Secretary of State much wisdom and a lot of headache tablets. Then we'll look forward to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u199	I inform the Chamber that Mr Van Vliet has had to leave the debate. He will, of course, read back what has been discussed here. He'll be back tomorrow. I give the floor to Mrs Neppérus.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u200	Mr. Chairman. Every year it is a special session with the Tax Plan. First, we meet two Mondays with lots of parties for legislative consultation. Then we will talk with an additional party in the plenary. The Tax Plan is of course also about the revenue of the government. The public gallery is not so full, but it is an important subject. We think the present section of the cabinet, the Tax Plan, is a good piece. There will be additional jobs and the burden will be reduced. That is essential. We have had to wait years for this combination, because the cabinet had to take difficult measures to put the economy in order. Fortunately, for the first time after all these years, we now see that the burden is falling and that measures are being taken, such as an increase in the working discount, to encourage work. The VVD considers it essential that you make every effort to create more jobs so that more people can work. The VVD therefore wholeheartedly supports this. In the coming years, this process must continue, because working is essential in this country.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u201	I appreciate the clarity of Mrs Neppérus. She was also clear about this in the legislative consultation. Is it true that the VVD Group will not support amendments which significantly increase the tax burden on parents with young children who both want to work? Did I get that correctly?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u202	So far, I have seen amendments to substantially reduce the income-dependent combination discount and to broaden the tax rebate. We will not support that. I have already said it in the legislative consultation: for years the position has been that only the man has been allowed to work, as a single earner; women have had to fight for years in this country in order to be able to work. We believe that this is essential and we will continue to promote it. I'll be on box three. Box 3 has been a tricky point for years. The predecessor of this, the ordinary property tax, was also good for many angry letters, as I remember from my time as a tax official. You saw the revenue didn't come in. That gave me much more concern. We are now on track to move towards an adjusted fictitious rate of return, but, as many colleagues have said, we must move towards a real rate of return. The question is, however, when can this be achieved? I will be the first to say: do not start it if it cannot be properly implemented. Then it's gonna be a mess. However, I think it is essential to speed things up. I am pleased that in last week's legislative consultation, the Secretary of State promised to report periodically to the Chamber on the progress of the proceedings. We'll stick to that all of us. It is essential that we go to the real rate of return. Now we're getting a fictitious tax. This change in the system is then simply an intermediate step towards a real tax. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State a confirmation of his commitment that he will constantly inform the Chamber. I think it is essential that we keep the pace. I come to the adaptation of the Parent-Subsidiary Directive and the introduction of the country report system. We support these measures. I would add, however, that we must ensure, for the Parent-Subsidiary Directive, that all countries do the broad variant. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State that he will keep us informed. I think the wide variety can be defended, but then all other countries have to do the same, otherwise the Netherlands will end up in a crazy position. Also the country reports that concern the extension of mutual assistance, in plain Dutch version and the repair of the emigration leak in box 2 are good things. That's gonna come out in the long run, not directly. I would like to hear if the Secretary of State is prepared to consider how to send it to business within a few years. If a particular sector is rightly subject to stricter requirements, you must consider whether you can do more in view of the locational climate in that country. I come to Article 2 on benefits. Many colleagues have said, like me, that it is good and good that it is finally going to happen; it is late, but rather late. I'm joining the Wet Reciprocating Pay Domain. I made it very clear in last week's legislative consultation that I support what is proposed in that law, including the limits that are being applied. Of course, you're worried about the introduction. Can the IRS and the UWV handle that? Minister Asscher then promised us to report regularly. There have now been separate implementation reports, which are worth doing for once, but in the future it seems to me that there should always be a joint progress report from the Minister for Social Affairs and the Secretary of State for Finance. That seems to me to be an essential point. I have seen many proposals come along in the last few days, even tonight. I think it would be a good thing if the Secretary of State were always to indicate the impact on employment. What do all the proposals that have been made for jobs mean? It remains crucial for us in the whole system that there is indeed employment, because that is important.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u203	Mr Van Dijck has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u204	I am curious whether there is any room for manoeuvre at the VVD to respond to those amendments, because otherwise we might as well go home. Then there is no majority for this Tax Plan. The CDA wants something for elderly and breadwinners, the SP wants to shorten the third disc, which I don't see the VVD doing soon, and a number of parties want a discount on the IACK, which you have said is unacceptable to you. So the SP is not going to support you and the Christian parties are not going to support you. That leaves only the CDA with a proposal for elderly and bread-winners.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u205	I've seen a lot of coming by. If I'm willing to move something with one party, the other party's gonna cut off right away. So we will look at everything patiently, thoroughly and thoroughly before the votes. There's a lot of things in there that you could do about, like the zip codes and the loading posts. But if you make a movement, the question is whether you also have support in the Lower House and in the Upper House. We will test everything on that. I started to say we're listening. I also asked big questions, but I saw great divisions at the time. Listening tonight, I also note that there is great division. If something has to be moved, which could always be done, it must be a movement that is acceptable in order to achieve a majority in the Second and First Chambers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u206	That sounds different from Mrs Neppérus' initial input, because then she said that a discount of D66 for the families on the IACK is unspeakable.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u207	You heard me say that a moment ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u208	So you block that, and shortening the third disc towards the SP is, I assume, also unspeakable, otherwise you will also lose your last piece of ideology. If you're not willing to move on one of those points, then the Tax Plan doesn't make it and then we can go home, then we can go to the King.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u209	I understand that Mr Van Dijck would like to go home, but I prefer to see the cabinet remain. That also seems to me to be of great importance to the country. Again, we look at all things. There are some things we shouldn't be thinking about. We look at everything, but if we support anything, because you may have to weigh, that's often the reality in politics, and that's easier than going home. We need to know that there will be a majority in the Second and in the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u210	Mrs Neppérus clearly says that she has listened to the proposals that have been made here. She then mentions a few, namely the postcode rose and the loading posts. In my view, many more proposals have been made, for example, whatever is in line with the coalition agreement. This is an income image that needs to be realised, with more demand as income increases. Let me now help the coalition with a proposal to this effect, namely not to extend the third disc, so that, for example, that money can be used to make progress for everyone, including those on low incomes. What's wrong with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u211	I am glad that there are now proposals to give the middle incomes and the slightly higher incomes a bit of advantage. And lower incomes are also improving. The capital tax that Mr Bashir wants can, I think, be renamed the'movement tax'.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u212	So Mrs Neppérus is only looking at the loading posts and the postcode rose, but the core of the proposals is taken off in a few sentences. However, as far as we are concerned, it is very well-founded, even with the coalition agreement. Our proposals ensure that everyone gets better. I'm just asking what's wrong with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u213	I have said that I am quite fond of looking positively at things like the postcode rose or -caterpillar. I said that last week; it's not news. Other proposals, I shall repeat them, because apparently I was not clear enough for Mr Bashir to look at all of us. That's what I'm saying: we're looking at them all. However, one proposal will be more appealing and the other less; I told you, I am getting the chills of returning the counters. However, we look at everything. I'll say something that you don't really find attractive, you might have to do, but then it's essential that I know that there will be a majority in the Second and First Chambers. So far I have noticed that opinions are still very divided, because of what one supports, the other gets the chills here. It's no different.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u214	I have a more political-ideological question. If the VVD really wants to stimulate the economy and actually want to make work more rewarding, the introduction of a low flat tax is of course a very nice tool. In 2005, it was mentioned in the VVD's election programme, in 2013 that it was only interesting and last year, according to the VVD's group chairman, the whole idea had to go into the wastebasket. What is the VVD's position on the flat tax this year?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u215	The number of tariffs in the Netherlands is already very limited, let us first establish that. Under €65,000 there are three, four rates. So what are we talking about; it is already very limited. A flat tax has huge income consequences, because to finance it you should also abolish a lot of social schemes if you want to do it at an affordable level. Unless you want a flat tax of 40%-45%.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u216	We are talking about four discs, and that seems to me to be a lot. A flat tax means a single rate, otherwise it is not flat anymore. The points made by Mrs Neppérus can be overcome, for example, by introducing a duty-free foot. But my question was what is the situation with regard to the introduction of a low flat tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u217	Firstly, most flat taxes appear to have two rates. And the Netherlands doesn't have that many rates at all right now. A flat tax sounds quite sympathetic, because a lot of people, especially higher incomes and middle incomes, are making progress. But a lot of income will also decline. And then there is another subsidy scheme or an additional supplement. That's my concern about a flat tax. So don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u218	As the oldest Member of this Chamber, I have a question to ask: I hope that I will give her an accurate estimate of the one-ever-oldest member of this Chamber. There are now some repairs towards the elderly, but they are a one-time thing. Can I expect a little bit of support from the VVD for making that one-time repair for the elderly a little longer?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u219	I feel very young. Let's just be glad that there are people who, even if they're not 20 anymore, are still working. You have to take them into account, too. Maybe you should almost stimulate that, I'd say. But really, you can just work. When the cabinet saw how the income figures developed, it consciously told Prinsjesdag that it was going to keep the elderly discount this year. Next year we will look again at all the consequences and the income figures. But as it is now, for this year it is just positively arranged and well repaired. I'm not going to commit right now. I'm looking at all the proposals, but they still have to be affordable. However, I am not going to commit myself now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u220	Too bad. I had hoped that in future you could make the elderly in the Netherlands a bit happier with the VVD's position.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u221	Luckily, this year, they're just gonna stay on level. Next year, of course, the cabinet will look at the income effects. This is then incorporated into the Throne Address and the Millions Note.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u222	Mr. Chairman. I'll start my input positively: it was nothing, it's nothing and it's not gonna work. The cabinet is proud to announce that it will come up with a 5 billion relief package. This is actually trying to cover up one's own misconceptions. First, raise taxes by 15 billion and now so-called give back 5 billion. It's like a thief who cleans out your house first and then returns the couch three years later. And then we should be happy about that. At the same time, the cabinet opens the door wide, allowing us to greet tens of thousands of asylum seekers in our house who never leave. The 5 billion package is actually a "mea culpa" package, a Band-Aid. Also next year, social security contributions and health care contributions are going up by 2.7 billion, as are rents and energy taxes. There will even be a higher tax on mineral water. Retirement is also considerably reduced by 1 billion. The package must cover up, mask and compensate for all these increases in charges. In fact, the burden will not be increased by 5 billion, but will be reduced by 317 million. Don't be fooled for a couple of tens; it's actually just pain money. The Secretary of State is hearing deaf and seeing blind. He saw that the effects of the increases in excise duties in the border strip were disastrous, but closed his eyes. Last year, almost 600 million litres of diesel were fueled less in the Netherlands, resulting in a loss of 131 million for the State. The Secretary of State is shrugging his shoulders. He sees the imbalance in the tax burden in household households, but closes his eyes. A single cashier with a minimum wage earns €3,000 more than that police officer, who is a breadwinner with a family with a modal income. That is the Netherlands, says the Secretary of State, not to do anything about it. He sees that the retired person is financially stripped and turns in purchasing power for the eighth year in a row. Too bad, the Secretary of State says. He heard the noises that the innovation scheme was detrimental to SMEs, thezzp'ers and the ICT sector, but he was deaf. He is also deaf to the cries from the field, from the KNB, from Necron, from ANBO, from the Stichting Autobestanden and from BOVAG. So be it. The Secretary of State does, however, have a problem, but he does not even want to see that problem. It's even a big problem. The cabinet lacks 17 seats in the First Chamber. What does the Secretary of State say? So be it. Opposition parties, figure it out, but make sure you help me get a majority. For the PVV, it is incomprehensible that the opposition is wriggling in all corners to be allowed to collect a few crumbs. Instead of firing off this plan and sending this cabinet home, we are trying, in the margins, to bring in some more. It's too embarrassing for words. It all started with Kunduz and it ends now with a few crumbs. Meanwhile, it has been tolerated that the Netherlands has been destroyed. The pension provision that the Netherlands once was so proud of will never be the same. The same applies to the AOW age, the protection of dismissals, the WW, the rental policy, the care of the elderly, study funding and the mortgage interest deduction. Everything had to be aborted, with the support of the destructive opposition. That's why they're an accessory. Meanwhile, the money supply to Brussels, to subsidies and to Africa remains fully open, as do our borders for lucky seekers. Billions are being pumped away that have to be brought up by hardworking Dutchmen. In the meantime, the opposition is begging for a few crumbs. A child's hand is quickly filled. One wants some pepper nuts for the breadwinners, the other wants some more greening and another wants some extras for the elderly. And margin is being discussed for every crumb, but at the same time the billions continue to leak abroad. If we close this leak, we can only really lower taxes for everyone. People are sick of it. They're sick of it. The discontent in society is increasing more and more, but the cabinet does not want to see it and does not want to hear it. Cabinet-Rutte II is the cabinet of hearing, seeing and silence. The destructive opposition keeps him in the saddle. The PVV says: quick elections! The rudder has to be, not 5 degrees, not 10 degrees, but 180 degrees, before it's too late.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u223	Mr. Chairman. With regard to 50PLUS, the 2016 Tax Plan, which we are discussing today, has three main shortcomings. Firstly, there is no fundamental tax review. Secondly, there is no balanced purchasing power effect. Thirdly, there is no question of a substantially simpler system, let alone a more comprehensible one for the citizen. Last Monday, during the legislative consultation, the Secretary of State said that he intended to satisfy everyone without having the illusion that everyone would be completely happy. That is a hopeful and realistic approach, as we are used to with this Secretary of State. A letter of thought was announced. At the beginning of the letter, it stressed that several political wishes had been expressed, "the fulfilment of which could contribute to the support for the Tax Plan." Those who rightly have cautious, yet positive signals from many older people and from the 50PLUS Group have increased the hope of additional purchasing power repair a little bit, but those who read the rest of the letter can only see that it is a blow to the face of the elderly. One thing is certain: this is not the cabinet with attention to pensioners. On the contrary, this cabinet has nothing to do with the elderly. I do not yet see the beginning of a move towards further purchasing power for pensioners, but a detailed repetition of well-known and chewed-out arguments not to do so. The Secretary of State challenges 50PLUS to further underpin our arguments. The present Tax Plan now provides for a lean purchasing power repair, only for the year 2016. That's profit. We count our blessings, but it's too little and unfair to workers. Why is there an occasional, limited purchasing power repair for pensioners, but a strong, structural purchasing power repair for workers? How is this difference between incidental versus structural and low versus high justified? I ask the Secretary of State through the chairman: convince us! 50PLUS agrees with the Secretary of State that the average purchasing power figure for older people is above zero and, of course, it can never be avoided that individual cases are excluded, but this cabinet also claims to represent a balanced purchasing power development. I see that 39% of pensioners remain at zero or lose more than 5% of their purchasing power, while 5% of workers remain at zero or up to 2% of their purchasing power. I challenge the Secretary of State again through the chairman: convince us! Convince the Chamber, convince the parties of the senators who adopted the Nagel motion, that that is fair and balanced. 50PLUS believes that there is every reason to increase the purchasing power of older people in structural terms. Pensioners do indeed share the burden relief for a structural EUR 400 million by adjusting the tax discs. However, the one-off compensation for pensioners of around 400 million as a result of the occasional increase in the elderly discount in 2016 is a burden increase of more than 500 million structurally due to the reduction in the elderly discount from 2017 onwards and the abolition of the elderly allowance in 2016. In addition, at least 100 million will be added by the higher income-dependent contribution to the Health Insurance Act. Is that balanced? I ask the Secretary of State again: convince us that this is fair and balanced. This extremely sad balance for pensioners has brought 50PLUS to two amendments aimed at achieving a structural balance in purchasing power for pensioners with those of workers. One amendment concerns the structuralisation of the one-off increased old age discount and the other is about the non-abolition of the old age allowance. The change in the income-related contribution health insurance law concerns 50PLUS. This puts pensioners at a distance from workers. My group is asking what is the justification for this shift in the burden of contributions from employers to people without an employer, in particular to the elderly. The result is a loss of purchasing power of about €75 for a few with AOW and a supplementary pension of €10,000. We are considering tabling a motion on this matter in the second term. 50PLUS believes that the two amendments tabled and the reversal of the increase in the income-related contribution to the Pension Insurance Act can bring more balance in the purchasing power of workers and pensioners next year. We do not consider the age limit of 40 years for the extended grant exemption to be correct and even discriminatory. Beneficiaries over 40 years of age may as well have to do with similar debt problems related to their own home. Should they not then be helped? What right is that? Or is this a common money issue? I'd like an explanation. We have already discussed the box 3 tax in detail. We find the consequences for the prudent saver with a certain amount of capital very bad. This is often about the elderly. Can the Secretary of State go into that again? Is he willing to make a firm commitment that the levy on the realised return will be introduced immediately as soon as this is technically possible? We are considering tabling a motion on this matter in the second term. The Secretary of State said in the summer of this year that the Tax Phone employees are the ears of the Tax Administration. Those employees will have heard a lot of disturbing noises about communicating digitally with the Tax Administration in recent days as a result of the campaign Goodbye blue envelope. 50PLUS and local elderly parties are also overwhelmed with signals from older people who are very concerned about the disappearance of the blue envelope. Of course, digitization of communication must continue. But we remind the Secretary of State of the commitments made to make it much more attractive and easier for those who can no longer make the transition to the digital domain. Can the Secretary of State explain once again what he is going to do for those concerned? Can he take care of the anxiety this week? After all, the phone is red-hot. The explanatory memorandum of the relevant law contains the following passage. "It will continue to be possible to provide a paper copy of the electronic decision in cases where this is necessary." Can the Secretary of State explain how he is putting this idea into practice and, above all, how he is going to communicate about it? Finally, I come to the sole earners. In Friday's letter, the cabinet explained the burden on sole earners. 50PLUS believes that it is unbalanced compared to that for two-earers. We do not support this cabinet proposal. It offers hardly any solace. It also doesn't put the bill in a targeted position where the biggest pluses are now. We would choose to cover the addition of the sole earners from the income-dependent combination discount, which has already been substantially increased and is still being raised. We are in favour of the SGP amendment on this. To sum up, 50PLUS aims to improve the purchasing power of the elderly and to improve the position of the single earner. If both groups are met, the Secretary of State can count on our support for this Tax Plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u224	I give the floor to Mr Dijkgraaf, who has indicated his wish to speak for a minute or twelve.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u225	Madam President. It is no surprise after this debate: the SGP has stood up for the single earner for many years. Anyone following the SGP should know that we find the growing gap in the tax burden between one and two earners worrying. This year we have begun to fight for the single earner in the General Political Reviews. The Prime Minister then referred us to the Financial Reviews. In the course of the Financial Reviews, we have made it quite clear once again that we consider it unfair for a earner to pay far more tax than two-earners. It amounts to as much as €8,000 to €10,000 per year, many hundreds of euros per month. We have shown that we are not doing this for the sake of our own interests. Only 4% of the earners are SGPs and only 20% of the SGPs are earners. Most of the earners are in the State Secretary's party. But one earners also sit with other parties, with all parties, even if you don't believe it; you don't understand how those people do it at D66. D66 has more earners than the SGP. Who could have guessed that? For the report, Mr Van Dijck says: not anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u226	For the record in the debate, I have acknowledged that a number of Mr Dijkgraaf's figures were correct. But I make a different assessment because the averages are all much closer together than you would sometimes think if you heard Mr Dijkgraaf talking. But I would ask him to acknowledge two things as well. Also in D66's plans, a single earner on minimum wage or on modal is just getting better because he gets more work discount, and that parents of young children who choose to work both of them are getting worse financially in the plans of the SGP. For the balance sheet, these are just the facts. It seems to me to be a good thing if Mr Dijkgraaf recognizes these two things.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u227	It is very good that Mr Van Weyenberg is talking about the facts, because the facts must speak. It is true that the single earner in D66's plans is improving because of the reduction in working hours. At the same time, the gap is widening because the two-earner is making much more progress. But the second one is wrong, because the two-earner doesn't go backwards because of our plans. The two-earner's getting less ahead of it. It seems that we have a slight difference in the facts here. If our amendment is adopted, the two-earner will also be making considerable progress in relation to today's debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u228	But there's a plan from the cabinet. That's what we're talking about today. Compared to that plan, the SGP simply increases the burden on this group. I am pleased that Mr Dijkgraaf admits this honestly and I also thank him for the honest presentation of what happens to the sole earner in the D66 plans.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u229	That is perfectly clear. Compared to today, 2015, the two-earner progresses in our plan and so does the one-earner. Compared to the government's plans, the two-earner declines. That's crystal clear. And they can do that just fine because they're making huge progress. The financial considerations referred to the Tax Plan. It's a bit of a referral debate. After 18 hours of legislative consultation in recent weeks, which took place in a pleasant way, we are not yet where we should be. The Secretary of State does propose that families should benefit from family allowances or the child-related budget, but the gap between one and two earners, which we have put at the centre, will not be reduced. The proposal contained in the Secretary of State's letter to reduce slightly the reduction of the transferable tax rebate provides the earner in 2016, do not be alarmed, €35 per year, €3 per month. They can at least buy a bag of dried bulbs. I have a strong feeling that the government does not intend to significantly reduce the gap between one and two earners on its own. I also get the feeling that a strange interpretation of freedom of choice dominates the design of the tax system. Freedom of choice is obviously a great asset, provided that people choose what the government wants. The partner who does not work will have to do so, even if he or she chooses to take care of the children voluntarily, and even if he or she cannot choose at all, because there is a chronic illness or disability. Or because there is talk of wanting to work but unable to work because he or she cannot find a job. As many as 75% of the 1 million single-earners cannot make the choice the government wants to impose on them. And despite not being able to, they don't get the tax benefits that two earners get. I call that unfair. We attach great importance to the principle of capacity. Taxation must take into account the number of people in a household, the family allowance with the number of children and the transferable and general tax reduction with the number of children. After all the debates that we have had, I can only say that the idea-fixe of the freedom of choice forced by taxation is a contradiction in terms of the principle of carrying capacity. I say Idea-fixe, because many cannot or do not want to make the choice that the government wants to enforce. I don't see unpaid working men or women as the corners of individuals. I see them as people who consciously make their own choice, for their own family, for volunteering, for family care. You shouldn't punish that, you should encourage it. Unpaid work, like paid work, is also essential for society. Those who punish it only confess the participatory society with their mouths. A motion was adopted in the First Chamber, tabled by my party colleague Schalk, in which the government is asked to come forward with proposals to reduce the large differences between one and two earners. After repeated requests, the government does not do so or does not do so sufficiently. That is why we have come up with our own proposal, together with the Christian Union and the SP. We increase the transferable general tax discount in 2016 and further years by €670. Then the gap will really narrow, also because we have found cover in a cut in the income-independent combination discount. On balance, the gap will thus be reduced by €1,000. We see this as a good first step towards a fairer tax system. Then, of course, we have the discussion as to whether it will cost jobs. I have already indicated in the case of interruption that this is not the case in the short term. Because in the short term, the job effect is determined by the spending effect, 5 billion in cost relief that goes into the economy. It's not gonna be any different with our plan. In the long term, it will not cost jobs. We are not changing anything in 2040 compared to the government's plans, so it can't cost jobs. Then the big question is, what happens in between? I can see Mr Groot moving: yes, but there is something in between. That's true. At a time when unemployment is now high, equilibrium unemployment is approaching, there could be an effect, because at that time labour supply is going to determine employment. But no sooner than that. The predictions regarding the Dutch economy show that it is still many years before we arrive, while of course we can decide each year on which buttons we are going to turn. It is not foreseeable that this could cost relevant jobs in the near future. If we get to that point, we'll have plenty of time to recount our knots. We have already completed a two-term legislative consultation. The arguments have already been exchanged. I appreciate that this could be done this way. We therefore think it appropriate to draw our conclusions, because this may also be important for the opinion of the Secretary of State. Let me be clear: for the SGP, the amendment that she tabled together with Mrs Schouten and Mr Bashir is essential. We do not know how to vote in favour of the Tax Plan if the gap between one and two earners is not significantly reduced. The cabinet would therefore be wise to give the amendment a positive opinion and the coalition would be wise to support it. Otherwise we will not see how we can vote in favour of the Tax Plan. I would add, however, that the SGP is always a party that will continue to seek constructive proposals until the end, with all the wishes being met as far as possible. The core for us is and remains that the gap between one and two earners is finally getting smaller rather than bigger. That has been the bet since the General Reviews. We have been holding the debate with this cabinet for three years now. For three years we have been making it clear to the cabinet that the single earner is important to us. The cabinet says every time it understands that and that it will try to handle it positively. But what do the cabinet and the coalition do when 5 billion is finally available? Then they just make that gap bigger by €2,000. If at last there is a pot of money in which everyone can share, then the gap is not getting smaller but bigger. Then the coalition should not be surprised that we find this an essential element in the discussion to reach a judgment on this Tax Plan. The same goes for the amendment on chronically ill and the TOG which the Christian Union will be submitting on our behalf. Mrs Schouten will explain that amendment in a moment. Chronically ill people are having a hard time. It is essential for us that they get more water under the boat through a higher concession in the costs they incur and a higher tax discount through the TOG. We are very curious about the reaction of the cabinet. Our aim is to vote in favour of the cabinet's tax plans, but then the cabinet must make it possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u230	I am trying to move into Mr Dijkgraaf's position. He mentioned examples of thousands of euros being taxed. With the €650 in the amendment, Mr Dijkgraaf meets the group for which he stands, but a tiny bit. I wonder whether Mr Dijkgraaf now acknowledges or denies that on average the difference between one earner and two earners is no more than 3.7%. Mr Dijkgraaf has opted for a generic change. Does Mr Dijkgraaf agree with me that the money does not end up in the group for whom he wanted to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u231	That 3.7% comes back every time. I would like to hear the Secretary of State again about this, because I have a strong impression that the difference at higher levels of income is many times greater. Also look at all the credit transfers we've made. I would like to see the transfers made by GroenLinks or the cabinet with the income figures that are 3.7%. I can see how that's the kind of percentage you're gonna get at the bottom of the payroll building. Of course, there are a lot of people there. So I understand that the weighted average is 3.7%. I just heard a story about a statistician who couldn't swim and who came to a river where there was a sign with the text: the river is on average 1 meter deep. The statistician said, "That's nice, so I can walk across the street." That didn't end well. There is no greater lie than the statistical average. Mr Grashoff's other point is whether this is a large amount of €650. Our amendment reduces the gap by €1,000. On the one hand, the earner will receive €668 and on the other hand, the two earner will pay €300. From this gap of €6,000 to €8,000 we collect €1,000. Mr Grashoff can say that this is nothing, but then he simply has to table amendments that organize the whole world exactly as he likes. You're gonna have to make a deal at some point, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u232	I think it is right that there should be clarity as to whether it is true 3.7%. I think this is important. It would be a good thing if the Secretary of State were to go into that, because what if Mr Dijkgraaf is right that it would be very different? Mr Dijkgraaf says something else. He assumes that the difference at the bottom of the income building is probably not that big. I have to say that the amendment he has tabled has a devel oping effect. The cases mentioned by Mr Dijkgraaf may involve a small group; let us assume that 3.7% is correct. If Mr Dijkgraaf gives these figures from a number of examples, then it can be no different that this is a small group. Mr Dijkgraaf is doing something very generic which has an effect for a very large group, but he is not helping the group he claims to stand up for at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u233	Then I'll give you another example. Mr Grashoff lives on averages. I've also heard a story that when you're sitting in an oven with your legs and your head in a fridge, the average temperature can be right. But what do you have? Mr Grashoff keeps coming up with these averages. But even if we take that average and you have an income of €30,000 and there is a difference of 3.7%, the difference is still €1,000. We'll take care of that for that group. For incomes up there, there's still a difference. Even if I were to go along with the argument that we are not doing anything, then Mr Grashoff's reasoning certainly does not add up, then we will solve the whole gap for that group. Even for those low incomes, there's this gap.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u234	Mr Grashoff did not receive an answer to his question. I have another question, which concerns a group which is also affected by Mr Dijkgraaf's proposal. Mr Dijkgraaf always talks about two-earners and one-earners, but he will also confirm that the combination discount, which he wants to distance from and to which he wants to spend less, also ends up with working single parents with young children?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u235	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u236	In the desire to redistribute two-earners to one-earners again, this is from an ideological point of view a well-known point of the SGP Group, Mr Dijkgraaf is apparently willing not to give this tax advantage to single parents who work, which is often not a big deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u237	Then Mr Van Weyenberg should take a closer look at the passing on of the situation of the single parent with young children. They will receive tax reductions in all possible ways. If you correct that for prosperity with equivalency factors that follow from the report of the Van Dijkhuizen committee, divide by 1.37 because you have one less adult than you can't say that they pay the main account in welfare terms. On the contrary.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u238	Mr Dijkgraaf says he's been pleading for it for years. That's right. For three years he has been calling attention to this group. I throw that in his face a lot, too. Last year at this time, I did. The newspapers were full of it: the breadwinners were duped. But Mr Dijkgraaf has tolerated this cabinet for years. Couldn't he have inserted this earlier into all of his tolerant constructions? He's ruined everything: the WW, the AOW and the study funding. He's tolerated everything. Now Mr Dijkgraaf is asking for 300 million back. Begging he stands there, asking for a crumb, and now he gets the reaction: figure it out, Dijkgraaf, see if you can find a majority, but you don't have to expect anything from me. How does that feel?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u239	That feels like this. The difference between Mr Van Dijck and me is that Mr Van Dijck has been screaming and has not achieved anything in the last three years, while with my party, for example, I have saved child benefit and free textbooks. This would save a family up to thousands of euros a year, which would otherwise have had to turn it in. Well, then you're talking about something. This is indeed one of the things we say: this is not yet settled. We think this is important. I would also like to point out one more detail. Mr Van Dijck's list was up to'study funding'. We certainly did not support that measure. Other parties have done so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u240	With the exception of student funding, you have helped this cabinet to break down everything. You mentioned the child benefit. There was a cut of 800 million on that, and you have indeed been able to mitigate it. You have managed to ease the misery of this cabinet a little. However, I do wonder the following. This is the topic of the SGP. In all the years you have fought for this, you have managed nothing, but you have made sure that this cabinet is still there after three years. Once again, why didn't you bring this in earlier? And do you now regret that you have tolerated this cabinet all these years? Look how things are with you now: begging, 300 million, a crumb.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u241	As usual, Mr Van Dijck can bring it beautifully. There's a nice list to make of the things we've been able to achieve. There are indeed things that have not yet been realized. That's what we're fighting for right now. We are a party that supports plans if they are good and does not support plans if they are not good. Now we have arrived at exactly this point. However, we do not say genericly 'look at it', as Mr Van Dijck is doing now, but not a few years ago, when the theory and practice in his party were different. If you say that, you're not gonna get anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u242	Mr. Chairman. Real load relief. Real tax cut. A real tax reform. It all sounded just as beautiful. In practice, however, we can see that this cabinet is merely crossed with fingers and waiting for windfalls to be able to give taxpayers some relief. That's all it is. After the burden has been increased by 15 billion since the beginning of this cabinet, we now get a cigar from our own box: 5 billion. How's the 5 billion going to be deployed? Are we finally going to see the much-needed tax reform? Are the rates going to go down significantly? I'm afraid not. Roughly half of it is being reduced by a percentage point here and a percentage point there. Furthermore, the money is used to strengthen the pumping surcharge system, for example through the care allowance or the childcare allowance. And all this under the leadership of the former Liberals of the VVD. Instead of putting 5 billion directly into direct tax cuts, the cabinet increases some increases and pushes on with all kinds of schemes, such as the income-dependent combination discount, the elderly discount and the employment discount. There is no robust tax reduction and certainly not a robust reform. For example, left-wing parties can now and in the future turn on the buttons again, to slide, to redistribute and to pursue their creasibility at the expense of working Netherlands. This is a missed opportunity. Our country now needs a real tax cut, not that mess in the margins of this wood-rope cabinet. The major structural economic problems, high unemployment and limited economic growth are not addressed. Unlike practically all other parties, my group does opt for significantly lower burdens, much more jobs and much more growth. We choose to reduce taxes drastically. We give the money back to the citizens and increase economic freedom. Our tax plan passed on by the CPB eliminates almost all deductions and tax rebates in the payroll tax. Get rid of that silly supplemental system! The proceeds are entirely for the benefit of the taxpayer, in the form of one low tax rate of less than 23%. On top of that, there is a tax-free base of €7,500 per person, which amounts to €15,000. This will also save the lower income groups. I say that to the VVD as a new defender of the welfare state. In addition, we increase wages, by adding the pension contributions fully to the employee's salary. Furthermore, in our plan we introduce a uniform VAT rate of only 15%, a measure also designated by the CPB as sensible. I would like to hear from this cabinet why this is not being used.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u243	Mr Van Klaveren's group, like the SP Group, has made a counter-budget and has it passed on to the CPB. That is worth a compliment to a small group anyway. For example, the PVV did not do that. He didn't make and turn in a counter-budget. We have looked at Mr Van Klaveren's proposals. I note that Mr Van Klaveren's group increases the tax in box 3 by EUR 700 million. Can Mr Van Klaveren confirm that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u244	No, Mr Van Klaveren cannot confirm that, because it is a total package. That was also mentioned a moment ago. In its entirety, we are reducing the burden enormously. The cost of consumption is down by 4 billion and the cost of labour is down by 6 billion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u245	But let's look at box 3. The cabinet's proposal for the Tax Plan also includes a proposal for box 3. In this, the government reduces the tax on low income savings to 0.87%. And when I look at Mr Van Klaver's plans, I come to 0.91%. So that's higher than what the cabinet wants. In addition, Mr Van Klaveren certainly increases the tax in box 3 by 700 million. I would therefore like to take a closer look at that proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u246	We have looked very closely at this. It is indeed including the changes that are now being applied by this cabinet. Only we broaden the basis. That's a clear story. As I have just said, we are opting for drastic tax cuts. Our plans have been calculated by the CPB, as the SP Group indicated. Those plans are very good for the economy. We are also significantly reducing corporate tax rates. That's hugely good news for entrepreneurs. The current child schemes are replaced by one robust national child contribution of almost €2,100 per child per year. We are reducing excise duties on fuel, alcohol and tobacco by almost 10%. Together with the lower VAT I have just mentioned, 20% becomes 15% of the price of petrol, which will reduce the price of petrol by as much as €0.20 per litre. The pump holders in the border region, who have just been mentioned, will finally be able to compete with the Belgians and the Germans again. I'm rounding up. Our tax plan reduces the burden on consumption by nearly 4 billion and the burden on labour by even 6 billion. Our story is the best that can happen to the Netherlands, especially in an economic sense, for both the groups at the bottom and the groups in the middle, and certainly also the groups at the top. And it's all possible; it's budget-neutral. We'll even have 0.1 billion left. Our plans are the story of the 21st century. Unlike the plans of this cabinet, this will lead to real tax relief, real tax reduction and certainly real tax reform.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u247	I give the floor to Mrs Schouten of the Christian Union, the last speaker from the Chamber in this term. It has indicated that it will speak for about fifteen minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u248	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to my fellow Members for allowing me to be a little later in the order of speakers. I'm also glad my associate finally came back. There are few debates that have had such a long run-up as this debate on the Tax Plan. Mr Dijkgraaf has just sketched an overview. I would like to go back a little further, namely to the 2010 Van Weeghel Committee. Back then, we were already thinking about reforming the tax system. Later, the Van Dijkhuizen Commission joined. It has produced a valuable report in the eyes of my group. There was still a bit to be seen, but it has offered us many ways of thinking. It was also this Secretary of State who already indicated when he took office in March 2014 that he had the ambition to clean up the entire attic. Today, however, we have to note that the great spring cleaning has been somewhat unsuccessful. There have been no substantial reforms, and I believe that the Secretary of State's ambition was to do so. There was money to distribute. Of course, that's always nice, but then you get the discussion about how you're going to give that money back to the citizen. That brings me to the heart of this debate. This debate is not just about where we add or remove a percentage. It's all about the question of what kind of society you have in mind. Do you want a society where only paid work is stimulated and the norm becomes? Or do you want a society in which there is also an eye for people who perform very valuable work as a caregiver or volunteer? This is a job that our society cannot live without. Are you just looking at how we can finance business as usual again? Or can we try to make a real shift towards sustainable entrepreneurship, including in the fiscal sphere? Do we want everyone to be honest in the relief that is now to be forgiven? Or are we looking specifically at a number of groups? Those choices are just political choices. We make them here as different political parties on different points. That is what my group has done. I have been counting back for a while and I think we have been very clear about our priorities for a year. They have to do with the gap between one and two earners. I would call that the freedom of families to make their own choices about how they distribute labour and care. I would like to lay down the space where I believe it belongs, namely in the family. Greening is a priority for us. We really need to take a step if there's money to be spent. We need to see how we can use it properly, in a way that contributes to our creation. The chronically ill and disabled are also a priority for us. That's a group that doesn't appear in most pictures. We want them to benefit from these reductions. That is where our priorities lie, where they lie and where they will remain when considering this Tax Plan. A number of amendments have been tabled. We have been debating for hours, so most of the substantive issues have been discussed, but on a number of points we have not yet got together, and that is why amendments have been tabled. Mr Dijkgraaf's first amendment, which we are also under, is an amendment aimed at meeting the earner through the portability of the general tax rebate. There are caricatures in this house. That is why I really want to say that it is often a question of families who are not self-employed. I've seen examples last week, I just got some e-mails in here where it's all not so clear and it's all not such conscious choices. Sometimes there are disadvantages of partners or children. Sometimes there is longterm unemployment, which means that people are not entitled to assistance and that they automatically become a earner. I want to keep fighting that being a earner is a choice of my own. A earner who sits on the couch is very often out of the question. The gap between one and two earners is increasing with this Tax Plan, to the extent that we believe it should be reduced. That is why I tabled an amendment on this point with Mr Dijkgraaf and Mr Bashir. I am still working very hard on another amendment. I am very sorry that I have not yet been able to submit it, but I believe that the service of amendments is also very important at the moment. All due respect to the people who work there. I will explain the amendment now. It concerns the tax deduction of specific healthcare costs. That is the deduction for chronically ill and disabled people in our tax system. There are percentages for subtracting care costs. At present, this is 113% of the specific care for people aged 65 and over and 40% for people under 65. We want to increase these percentages. We are still working on the service of amendments with regard to the exact percentages we want to reach. This will result for people under 65 years of age in the order size of 80% of the specific care costs and for people over 65 years of age at about 175%. Do not pin me on these percentages exactly, because they may change. But I would like to point out a direction, because then it is clear for this debate. The amendment will also make a contribution to the TOG plus, for parents with disabled children living at home. The Secretary of State has already made a proposal to that effect, and we are happy to accept it. This is an amendment of 3.7 million. So that money goes to the parents with disabled children living at home. Cover for this amendment will come from the proposal made by the cabinet itself in the field of greening, namely the gas-electric slider. Then, as far as we're concerned, the knife cuts both ways. On the one hand, we are meeting a group which, in our view, needs and also deserves to benefit from this reduction. On the other hand, at the same time, we are making sure that we are really looking more closely at alternatives to gas, keeping greenhouse horticulture out of this scheme. The greenhouse horticulture will not be dealt with. In this way we can clear 100 million for the chronically ill and disabled. The rest of the amount, just over 100 million, can then be traced back to business.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u249	Mrs Schouten states that she wants to exclude greenhouse horticulture from the slide between gas and electricity. For greenhouse horticulture there is only a separate scale for gas and not for electricity. If Mrs Schouten does not implement the increase in greenhouse horticulture, she will introduce the reduction in the electricity price for greenhouse horticulture. Does this mean that the greenhouse horticulture will pay less? If you do both, as in the proposal, greenhouse horticulture may already be compensated for the increase in the gas tariff through the reduction of the electricity tariff. The greenhouse horticulture also consumes a lot of electricity. Isn't it wise to just leave the greenhouse horticulture in there?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u250	It's a very conscious choice to remove the greenhouse horticulture. That's because most of the greenhouse horticulture is gas-fired. Mr Grashoff knows that too. They will really suffer a lot more from the increase in the gas tariff than from the reduction in the electricity tariff. That will not be so hard on greenhouse horticulture, much less in any case than the increase in the gas tariff. We have been calculating because we were wondering what impact this has on this industry. It seems to us that this industry is being disproportionately hit, but it is not our intention to hit the companies because this is an important industry in the Netherlands, which is very hard to hit. We have tried to find a balance in this. We therefore did not consider it justified to include greenhouse horticulture in this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u251	Isn't that an exceptionally big missed opportunity? For greenhouse horticulture there are excellent alternatives in the form of geothermal heat and heat supply combined with CO supply. This is a sector where there is a huge blow, but Mrs Schouten is about to give it away. We could also collect the money and get it back available to invest.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u252	Yeah, that's a choice. That's right. We have chosen to use this amount now for a group which we believe should be compensated, namely the chronically ill and the disabled. We believe that this should be settled now, but I fully agree with Mr Grashoff that we should also look in particular at promoting alternatives to heat generation. He's turning it in himself. Sorry, I'm not very well at home in greenhouse horticulture and the alternatives, but there are alternatives. I see a lot of gardeners are already working on that themselves. It is indeed simply a political choice to spend the money now on the chronically ill and disabled. Locking it back would then go through the Aof premium, as the cabinet has proposed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u253	Let's talk about the chronically ill and the handicapped. With the support of the Christian Union, last year the Wtcg, the Compensation Own Risk (Cer) and the compensation for care costs for disabled people were all abolished. A tailor-made facility has come back for it. Then we are talking about a cut on those chronically ill and disabled people of 300, 400 or 500 million. Will you come back to that now? Do you regret that you supported the cabinet to hit those chronically ill and disabled people so hard in their pockets? Is that what I'm listening to here?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u254	When Mr Van Dijck presents the complete picture, he also knows that the groups of D66, the Christian Union and the SGP made sure that the cabinet did not cut the total tax deduction, because that was what was in the plans. There would only be a tailor-made facility. Thanks to the three parties who helped the cabinet, a tax deduction has been retained, because we also said that you cannot do everything only in customisation. There remains a part of what you should compensate for at national level. The Wtcg and the Cer were regulations with many disadvantages. For example, you could take your glasses with you. Suddenly everyone had very expensive glasses he could jerk off and the like. We really thought that was a waste of money, because it did not end up with chronically ill and disabled people, but with someone with expensive glasses. That was reality. We felt it was important that a tax regime should be maintained. We note that this group is not compensated for the burden relief for all kinds of groups. That is why we want to increase this tax measure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u255	Many words, but in fact there has been considerable savings in the arrangements for chronically ill and disabled people. Whether you want to call that arrangement Wtcg, Cer or otherwise, you have helped. That's a cut of 300, 400, 500 million, ascending. The question is whether you regret helping the cabinet to break down all these arrangements for chronically ill and disabled people. You will now come back to it with an amendment. Why didn't you do that last year?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u256	I just tried to explain that Wtcg ended up with people who weren't chronically ill or disabled, but who bought Armani glasses. That was reality. We have made sure that provision has been made so that local customisation can be offered, while at the same time it remains a national arrangement. The cabinet wants to give 5 billion to all kinds of groups, except the group of chronically ill and disabled. That is why we say that this group should also share in that plus. That's what I'm telling you here. A second amendment on greening has just been tabled, namely on the famous postcode rose, but also on the zero rate for local energy corporations. We've risked some previous attempts. I'm afraid to say it anymore, but I'm still hoping it'll be a little more likely this time. I am not so much concerned with the fact that we can welcome the success of the project as with ensuring that energy companies at local level are finally given a chance of success. We have come up with something that is totally out of the question, because it is such measures that stand in the way. I read the letter from Mr van I and Mr M on coal taxation. Thank you for that. I still have a question about the sustainability of what is in it about the question of coal-fired power stations, and at what time. I believe that Mr Omtzigt also asked that question. The letter states that the coal plants have known for three years that efficiency requirements will be imposed. Actually, that's not true. This was not reported until the summer of 2014, when the ACM indicated that the closure had all kinds of disadvantages. As a compensatory measure, efficiency requirements were established to prevent us from getting into trouble with the ACM judgment. That time is therefore much more limited than the letter of the Secretary of State of I and M states. It's not three years. I think the energy agreement is from 2013. So it would be two years in a sec. However, I would like to be persuaded by this Secretary of State. I think, however, that the Secretary of State for I and M has been a little too generous with the years. In any case, the abolition of coal tax remains a thing of the past. I think I have seen a proposal from Mr Grashoff to keep the coal tax in place. That has our support. Then I come to the capital efficiency levy. I can support Mr Van Weyenberg's amendment on the distribution of donations and the space that is to come. I do have a question about the injury benefit. I have tabled an amendment to that effect. Quite a lot has already been said about the new capital efficiency levy. We have indicated that we can support them in essence, provided we also look at a better system in the long term, in which returns are actually taxed. As far as we are concerned, there is an imbalance for people who have received injury benefit. If you have received an injury benefit above €237,000 before entering this Tax Plan, this plan will result in a higher capital return charge. That was not taken into account when the injury benefit was granted. We've had such a situation before. Then we did some kind of repair. My amendment ensures that this group of people is taxed at the current rate. Mr Van Weyenberg has already said a few things about the LIV (low income benefit). I have tabled an amendment myself. This is what sees on the next. These are employers who have hired someone who is eligible for LIV with good intentions, not for a small job, but for a real contract. If that person then leaves after six to twelve months or if for some reason the contract cannot be continued, we should not leave that employer in the cold. That is, in fact, the case now. You have to be employed for at least a year to get LIV. However, this regulation is precisely intended to allow people to take up employment. If we want to do so, we must reward and respond to the employers who work on it. Then it's not about a small job. However, if an employer has employed a person in the target group for a minimum of six months and has put him to work for a minimum of 24 hours a week, a percentage of LIV should be possible. That is what we have stated in the amendment. With regard to the integration of the Wbso/RDA, for the sake of clarity, I can support Mr Van Weyenberg's amendment. We will come up with a sub-amendment on this point in order to lower the ceiling slightly. We have already indicated that we are looking for cover for the Defence budget, because we also want to invest 100 million in the Defence branch. There is one more bill I would like to mention specifically. That doesn't mean I don't think the rest is important. I am very pleased that the Disability Benefits Act Article 2-Funds, on the benefits for the Jewish war victims, is now being arranged. I thank this Secretary of State for that. The conclusion is that it is important for the Christian Union that the cabinet moves along the three lines that the Christian Union has been describing for months. We have made concrete proposals. Mr Dijkgraaf mentioned them as essential. I only agree with those words. It is essential for us that something is going to happen for the gap between one and two earners. There is an amendment before us on that point. In addition, we are dealing with the chronically ill and disabled, with the greening measure as cover. The cabinet itself has indicated this. Honor who deserves credit, Mr Grashoff is a bit the spiritual father of this proposal. These amendments are essential to us, in conjunction with the postcode rose issue. There is a real need to take a step in that direction. We shall be voting tomorrow at the end of the debate or on Thursday, when we see which amendments are being adopted, our minds will be drawn up.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u257	I'm trying to estimate the value of the word "essential." There was little doubt with Mr Dijkgraaf; at least I understood his words. If the amendment he tabled together with Mrs Schouten and Mr Bashir does not make it, obtaining the support of the SGP Group will be very complicated; let me put it this way. Mrs Schouten says it is essential, but we weigh everything at the end. Is this amendment a harsh condition for Mrs Schouten? Is it at least one of the points that must be included in the report, if its group is to be able to support the Tax Plan?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u258	I can make it even more complicated for Mr Van Weyenberg. We have indicated that we both consider the amendments to be very important. Eventually the weighting will take place at the end; then we will decide what we will do with the Tax Plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u259	I understand that, and I do not deny Mrs Schouten the opportunity to make a weighing. She uses the term "essential." Here's what I'm gonna say. If a number of amendments, including the amendment on the transferable tax rebate combined with the combination discount for parents with both young children working, fail, there is no support from the Christian Union for the Tax Plan. Did I understand Mrs. Schouten that well?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u260	Mr Van Weyenberg himself did not say at the end of his speech whether his group will support the plan or not. He wants to make that weighing at the end, too. Mr Van Weyenberg mentioned only the single-earners, but I am also really concerned about the chronically ill and the disabled in combination with the greening. We have always raised three points. We shall weigh those three points. We have tabled or almost tabled specific amendments; at least I have explained what we are thinking. That's not for nothing. We will really be watching how these points will be voted on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u261	I'm gonna build on that. I have heard Mrs Neppérus make a statement on the SGP'sdeserving proposal. I do not know if I quote you quite correctly, but I have heard something in the sense of 'the chills are running over my back'. I have heard Mr Groot say that it is out of order and that he will not support it. Are we supposed to find out that it just failed?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u262	You don't have to ask me that. I think that question should be put to the cabinet. We have set our priorities. We have indicated what is important to us. Thursday will show whether it succeeds or fails.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u263	May I say that, together with the SGP Group, you are well on the way with the coalition at the moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u264	I'm just thinking back to last Monday. Mr Grashoff will not have heard many other texts from me or from Mr Dijkgraaf today. We would have been on a collision course last Monday, as he put it. We have simply put forward a serious proposal. We promised that we would do that, and we did that here. In the end, it is also up to other parties to make their overall assessment, but we have really expressed our priorities here in amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u265	We're running out of time. Thursday's votes are already in place. Before we arrived in this room today, we had already met for twenty hours with all of us, in two days, in another room. I note that we have all made many wishes on the table, but that the Secretary of State is hardly taking any steps. Does Mrs Schouten think the steps taken so far by the Secretary of State are sufficient? Mrs Neppérus spoke about loading posts and the zip code rose. The opposition parties are to be dealt with on these points, but the essential issues that have been put on the table have not yet been discussed at all. Are the steps taken so far sufficient?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u266	I think we didn't get much further than last Monday. At that time there was a proposal from the cabinet, which I indicated in the debate that was not enough. I have no longer had a debate with the Secretary of State on this matter. I do not know whether Mr Bashir did. So far, I have seen that the Secretary of State repeats the proposal in the letter sent to the Chamber on Friday. So I'm very curious what the Secretary of State will do tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u267	It is sometimes suggested or speculated here that the Secretary of State would like to go to the Upper House without the opposition's proposals, in order to get to that point. Does Mrs Schouten think that is a sensible option and how would the Christian Union behave in that case?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u268	I think it is very honorable that Mr Bashir is actually giving me the role of Secretary of State, as if I had to tell the Secretary of State what is sensible or what is not. I think the Secretary of State is quite capable of assessing that himself. All I can say is what we think is important. That is what I have been doing for weeks, up to the points and commas in the amendments in today's debate. My First Parliamentary Group makes its own decisions. All I can tell you is what we think is important here. We have been very consistent in that. Whether that's wise or not? Perhaps Mr Bashir should ask the Secretary of State tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-17.u269	This brought an end to the first term on the part of the Chamber. Tomorrow is the continuation, in which the Secretary of State will answer the questions asked.
