ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for Security and Justice. Nine speakers have registered for the term of office. They all have six minutes' speaking time, except for Mr Bontes. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u2	Mr. Chairman. The failure of the National Police is complete. The parade of the VVD has turned into a freak. For three years, the Chamber has heard that everything will be all right. For three years we were kept on a leash. But now the big word is out: it's not gonna be okay. The rattling reorganization has been severely delayed and is twice as expensive. That's not the only thing. The quality of detectives is also very inadequate and the detection is virtually paralysed. There's a shortage of district agents and a surplus of tasks. Thousands of crimes are less solved every year. There has also been a serious deterioration in the provision of services. This failed cabinet policy has led to problems that I have warned of from the beginning. Reorganising at a record rate while at the same time meeting higher ambitions with too little money is an impossible task. It is an impossible task and an irresponsible task, at this time of enormous terror threat. Nowhere in the review note do we read how the mess that has been caused is now being cleaned up. It is also not a recalibrate, but a repeat of bad news. The biggest question is where the Minister is actually going to get that 460 million from. The police themselves must pay for the more expensive reorganisation. It can only be that this is again at the expense of capacity and the performance of tasks. This will further impede the functioning of the police. It is therefore a bad decision to extend three years for the reorganisation. My group once again proposes its alternative. We propose that only three areas where quick wins can be booked should be covered by the National Police, namely ICT, procurement and work processes. The other objectives will then remain at local level. The police organization needs air, not long-lasting, suffocating reorganization. Stop this drawing table fiasco. With only nice plans on paper, you don't catch bad guys. Setting up and Bouman, as I predicted before, did not turn out to be police reformers, but "police scramblers." The interests are too great to maintain the current, failing corps leadership. We need a clean ship. That is why my group calls on the Minister to say goodbye to the entire corps.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u3	Mr. Chairman. It is now three and a half years since we have dealt with and passed the law on the National Police here in the Lower House. Everyone agreed it was a good law to come. That was true for agents, for mayors, for the unions and for the House of Representatives. After all, this allowed more room for the professional, less bureaucracy and more effective detection. The police came close to local authority and citizens. And it would also be able to tackle major issues, such as organised crime, as one organisation. I've often wondered how such a good plan could have been so worthless. During the many work visits and from many SP surveys among the staff it quickly became clear to me that the unrest and anger surrounding the formation of the National Police grew. The devastating reports and criticism of scientists continued to flow in. The initial knowledge of agents turned out to be heavily below par, because they were insufficiently trained. The inspection found that agents do not take sufficient rest and are not adequately protected from aggression and violence. Problems were also reported with ICT and with the capacity of the emergency rooms. This weekend, the long-hidden report on the problems in the CID showed up. This is a report from 2011, but unfortunately still very topical. Didn't the Ministry have any idea that this report was in the drawer? Clearly, ostrich politics stopped helping the minister at the time. The plan was badly executed and there had to be a new plan. We are discussing this new plan today. It's a realistic plan, I heard the minister calling. Then who is helping this minister to achieve more realism? He calls with a great deal of pride that 230 million will be released. Can the Minister explain that this is simply from the police budget? The agents will soon pay the price again for this minister's failing policy. The SP wants the promises made at the time by the National Police Act to be fulfilled. There's nothing left of those promises. The promise of more blue on the street has not been fulfilled. The police are still operating at crepe strength. This minister says we've got too many cops and we've got to get out of here. Can the Minister explain why an extremely large amount of money is being made available to externals? The unions say this is 300 million. Is this true? Then why isn't there enough money to create more blue on the street? Also, the promise of one district agent out of 5,000 inhabitants has not been fulfilled. There is still an under-staffing situation. For the SP it was and is very important that the police can be found in the neighborhood, including with police stations. Minister Opstelten promised the Chamber of Representatives I have looked this up and I quote him "I do not hear at all that there are offices closing because of the National Police. This minister now wants to close half of all the offices. The 5,000 police volunteers promised didn't make it. The promise of less bureaucracy was not fulfilled either. The objective was to reduce the burden by 25%. This new reorganisation plan contains no measurement and no objective. The fact that the promise that 20% of investigators should have an HBO level of work and thinking has not been fulfilled is, however, reflected in the Minister's plan. The Minister says he has a plan for the CID. What exactly this plan will involve, I don't know yet, but there will be a plan. We know that the minister cuts 50 million in police education, while the workplace begs for more training. When is the Minister going to take care of this? The unions indicate that there is more money for leadership training than for training that focuses on the profession. Can the Minister state if this is true? Promise makes guilt! I've listed a bunch of broken promises for the Minister. How's he gonna fix this? Can the Minister come up with a plan? I went through the paperwork seriously and thought, "What's the point of this? I read that the steps in 2017 are presented as a watercolour and are a focus for the choices per year. I also read that 2016 is written in pencil and contains the indication of what will be executed. I'm not asking for a vague painting, I'm asking for a plan. I'm asking for a plan with a purpose, timelines and a risk section. Can the Minister undertake to do so? A senior agent with eight years of service earns an average salary of about €1,800 net. He stands on his feet day and night for this and is supposed to do his job with danger for his own life and well-being. The prospect of working until your 67th and catching the bad guys with a rollator is, to say the least, bizarre. Can the Minister finally ensure a decent collective agreement? I'm not quite done yet, Mr. Chairman. It is a good use of the SP Group to always question the workplace about good plans but also about bad plans. I did not want to spare this minister and at least made a nice report for him in which the workplace was once again questioned about the plans. I'd like to offer him this report.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u4	I assume there is no objection to this document being made available to the Central Information Point of the Chamber. (For inspection at the Central Information Point of the Second Chamber of the States General.)
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u5	Mr. Chairman. The formation of a national police force remains an issue on which the CDA Group is deeply concerned. The cabinet started with great promises about security, but Rutte II's paradise has now become the Achilles' heel of the cabinet. Over the past few years, the problems have accumulated with the police. Each time the minister's predecessor played nicely. Commitments were made, but the question is where we really stand today. That's what we're gonna talk about. In his letter to the Chamber, the Minister outlines how he intends to address the identified bottlenecks in the process. The review note begins with a sunny picture: "After two and a half years of National Police, there is now one corps that can work more operationally than before. A corps that has maintained and improved performance and ensured security during a number of large-scale and complex events. This is, given the major change operation that is going on, a good achievement that should not be underestimated." That's good, because there's been quite a lot of good work. The minister would be a popular weatherman if he was just predicting nice weather. It would also happen quickly with its popularity when it starts raining and blowing. That feeling always gets to me with the messages we get from the Ministry. The facts are different. Let me sum it up. The number of police stations is cut by half. Not all neighbourhoods in the Netherlands have their own district agent. The influx into the police academy is still too low. The reports about the capacity and culture at the crime scene are worrying. The D.A. is now complaining about the quality of detectives. The financial situation is far from stable. The uncertainty about the tasks now being postponed remains. I'd like to ask the Minister about this. One of the bottlenecks in the reorganisation of the police was that the police had to do too much at the same time with too little resources. That's what the police have always warned us about. The Minister now gives the police more time to put the base in order. I can understand why this has to happen. The focus will then be on business management. Then you're talking about a different kind of people than cops. If we give the police more peace, what will she do? It must come from somewhere in the budget. If you want to put more energy and money into getting business in order, it has to be at the expense of something. I would like to know from the Minister what this is about, even if, as we understand it, the number of policemen is already being reduced to stay within the budget. If it's any different, I'd like to hear it from the Minister. I'll come to the money. In the press release accompanying the progress letter, the Ministry writes: the originally estimated restructuring budget has increased from 230 million euros to 460 million euros. If you read it quickly, it seems like a slight setback, but it concerns a quarter of the cuts, the targets, for which the minister stands. If this gets on top of it, that's just a lot. These one-off costs have been processed within the police budget, so it is written. The CDA has repeatedly asked about the financial problems involved in the reorganisation of the National Police and other parties have done so. The Minister has always said that there was no financial problem. The Chamber was informed privately in November last year, during the legislative consultation on the police. At that time, too, it was always denied that there was a financial problem. Is this coming like a monkey out of the sleeve, is this a surprise to the minister, a huge disappointment? I also want to know what it's paid for. Is the increase in the restructuring budget covered by unrealised savings, or are the police's financial reserves called upon? Will the Minister join us? We often hear, for example in the case-law or the prosecution, that there are all kinds of jars that allow the minister to jump in when things really go wrong. How does that affect the budget? I'd like to get a response from the Minister. I'm gonna be on the neighborhood cops. Unfortunately, I have to come back to that point. I don't want to, but it's kind of our point. We're still worried about that. Neighborhood agents are the first point of contact for citizens. We're very busy with jihadism. It has always been said that it is important that the police have someone on the street who knows what is going on and who is the eyes and ears of the neighborhood. Those cops can also be the first to identify problems. This can often prevent escalation. That is why the CDA Group has urged the Minister to raise the number of district agents. I didn't do that alone. Mrs Berndsen and Mrs Kooiman did the same. That is widely supported in the Chamber. Not for nothing is the standard of one district cop out of 5,000 residents in the Police Act. There's been a long time with that number. There have been a lot of numbers that have been manipulated, but we have said: we really want it to be good now. I remember very well that I asked the previous Minister in an AO: could it be settled in spring 2015? I still hear the chief of police whispering in the Minister's ear: we won't make it, but July 1st is a certainty. We then tabled a motion, together with other opposition parties, which stated that it really must be settled on 1 July. That wasn't a problem. That would all be arranged. And what do we read now? That it's about to happen in 2016. There's also an inspection report from V and J. Four units have been investigated. The conclusion is actually that there are too few district agents to meet the standard of 1 agent out of 5,000 residents. The district agent, especially as a result of the unfinished, slow reorganisation, does not yet fulfil the desired directional role. If sufficient investment is not made in new developments and in the position of the district agent in good time, further development of area-related police care as described in the documents of the National Police Office will remain very resistant. So despite the promises and promises of the minister and despite the Chamberwide supported motions of the CDA and other parties, not every neighborhood in the Netherlands still has its own district agent. This is not particularly the case in the shrinking regions of the East Netherlands and Zeeland. We also read in the inspection report that district agents are being used far too much for other tasks such as emergency services and that the recruitment and training of additional district agents can only be started in 2016. So it's at least another year before they get there. They also need to be worked in and get to know their neighborhood. How does the Minister reconcile this with the promises that have been made in the past and which have become increasingly harsh? As a result, the CDA wants to discuss the closure of police stations. I am also doing so because the Court of Auditors presented a report this summer. That report is hard to read, because there's a lot wrong, but we don't know exactly what's wrong. The Minister does not know either, but he did say to the Court of Auditors: I see the recommendations you make as a support for my policy and we are going to implement them as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u6	Thank you very much, Mr Oskam.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u7	May I finish just a moment, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u8	Just for a second.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u9	It's kind of a tricky subject. You can barely make it in six minutes. There's really a lot to say about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u10	You won't even make it in six minutes, because you've been 40 seconds late. Perhaps Mrs Berndsen could ask a question so that you can blur the rest of your text in an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u11	That's what I'm wondering, Mr. Chairman. I would like to know from the CDA Group whether she agrees with the criticisms made in the past about not wanting to temporize and the excessive pressure on the organisation. Does the CDA agree with that? And does the CDA agree with the recalibrate?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u12	That is too big a step and too quick a conclusion. I think it's good that time is built in or time is bought if we don't make it. I welcome the fact that this organisation is now settling down and is going to do things that need to be done. I am thinking in particular of tackling the bottlenecks that we have been talking about for two years. It's important that that be done. But to say that we now support the whole report... I would like to get answers to the questions I am asking about this first.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u13	It is good that Mr Oskam says that he has been thinking of this for two years, but it is remarkable that in November 2014 the CDA voted against a D66 motion in which we indicated that the priorities and pace of reorganisation should be considered in consultation with the police and local authority. How does Mr Oskam explain that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u14	I find it difficult to go back to how that went with that motion. We have, of course, always presented new priorities to the Minister. The Chamber is also guilty of this. Every time the minister said, "We're gonna do that." We have, of course, been guilty of this ourselves. I also remember Mrs Berndsen saying many times: let us make choices, for God's sake. That's what the CDA has always stood for. I just need to dig into my memory. I'll take a look back at that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u15	You can do that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u16	Yes. I'm not gonna do that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u17	I'd like you to finish. Five seconds left.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u18	It is difficult for the Court of Auditors, because we simply do not know which agencies will be closed. We also do not know which setbacks are coming. I'd like to ask the Minister about those setbacks. How does he see it for the future? Whose bill are they on? For those of the police, for those of the Ministry of Security and Justice, or for those of the Minister of Housing and National Service?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u19	Fine. So much for your term. One more question from Mrs Tellegen. Short and pointy, Mrs Tellegen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u20	Yeah, short and pointy. A lot of bottlenecks are explained by the CDA. What does the CDA group think of the review note that is now on the table? Is that note acceptable to her? What does the CDA want anyway? The CDA was also the party that told the National Police to get there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u21	Mrs Tellegen asks almost the same question as Mrs Berndsen. The CDA is still a strong supporter of the National Police. I think there's a lot going well with the National Police, too. The Minister himself has seen a number of examples. The police have organized fantastic events. A lot of criminal cases have been well completed, but there is unrest in the tent. That's annoying. Police are complaining about the workload. They complain about the reorganisation that does not come off the ground. There are a number of things the CDA considers very important, including the district agents. Mrs Tellegen also thinks it is important and I think the VVD has also signed with us. However, it is still not settled. The CDA is also concerned: in a few years' time, is the police going to be on strength and are there enough people going to the Police Academy? From the corps itself we hear the complaint that there are many old policemen who can't actually go out on the streets with good decency, but have to go out on the streets. They should be replaced in the long term. If you want to be a good cop...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u22	Say...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u23	Yeah, I'm gonna keep going.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u24	I can see it!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u25	If you want to be a good cop, you have to walk down the street for a few years so you feel like you can do the job properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u26	That is a very long answer to a very simple question. Does this review note get the CDA's approval or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u27	I've already given the answer. There are things that are good and that we support, but I have also put a number of questions to the Minister, and I would like to get an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u28	Mr. Chairman. Trust comes on foot and goes on horseback. As far as PVV is concerned, the key word in this debate is not "re-examination" but "confidence." Because without trust, there is no support, and without support, nothing changes. The fact that something needs to change in order to achieve a successful conclusion to the process of national police is a fact. In that context, I have two questions. First of all, what should change? Secondly, who's gonna do that? The minister said there was too much to do at the same time. 63.000 employees need a new position, while the work continues. In fact, the minister's predecessor added a new top priority almost every week. Well, there's gotta be a different way. I'll get back to you on that. The Minister also notes that the reorganisation has not been properly addressed, namely top-down rather than bottom-up. In plain Dutch: the top of the police determined what had to be done for the agents at the workplace and the mayors in the municipalities. So that relates to my second question: who should initiate the change? Top-down does not have to be wrong in itself, but two conditions have to be met and that is, firstly, vision and, secondly, confidence. In the opinion of the PVV, the Minister completely ignores these two crucial conditions in the review report. There is no answer in the documents to the question of whether there is still sufficient confidence in the corps leadership and in the minister himself. The Minister is in crisis with the unions about wages and other collective bargaining requirements. Trust in the Chief Constable is falling. That is why I am now asking the Minister: what shows that there is sufficient confidence in you and in the top of the police to make the process work? The review report is not supported by the four major police unions either. So the question is not only whether there is sufficient confidence in the summit, but also in the vision. In the letter dated 8 September last. The police unions literally state: "The police unions declared in March 2015 that they no longer trust this process of forming the National Police. As long as the (...) key points are not taken into account, this will continue to be the case. In any case, the present review note does not give any reason to change our position." In other words, the minister and the top of the police on the one hand and the trade unions on the other did not get a millimeter closer together. Now that it is clear that there is no basis for the review note and the changes proposed in it, there is one question that needs to be answered first: what is the Minister going to do to ensure that there is trust in the police unions or the workplace in the process of the National Police? As I said at the beginning of my speech: without confidence there is no basis for support and without acceptance nothing will happen. There is therefore no point in asking detailed questions about the content of the review report. The Minister can and must do two things with regard to the PVV with regard to the review report. He has to go back to the drawing board for a vision and back to the negotiating table for support. The question is whether the Minister will do so. I would like to come back to the question of what should happen. The review report is full of abstract recommendations, but they are words without deeds. It doesn't get any stronger from repetition, but I have to say again: without trust from the workfloor in the minister and the summit nothing changes and without a sound basis there can be no solid building. The base teams are a collaboration between the district agents, the detectives and the emergency services and could carry out all the tasks. The base teams are meant to be eyes and ears of the neighborhood, but they're not in order, even far from that. There are far too few district agents and the team chiefs are structurally overloaded. There are no robust base teams, as promised by the then Minister. Despite the fact that it was already known in November 2014 that there are too few district agents, the Minister's answer is now ten months later: the standard keeps the attention. Zero point zero concrete action and, worse still, zero point sign of empathy in the neighborhood agent on the street. Imagine having to say to a victim who wants to report it: I know there are too few of us, but don't be afraid, because the norm keeps the attention. Without trust, there will be no support and no solid building without foundation. The Minister is on the move and must come up with a new plan as soon as possible, which sets out a vision that he has worked together with the police unions and a new police summit and that includes concrete actions with a timetable. The Chamber should then be kept regularly informed. There is no point in muddling and it is even dangerous, because the task of the police, especially at this time, is to effectively enforce the rule of law and to provide assistance to those who need it. The police organization has to be in order for that to happen. Unfortunately, that is certainly not the case. Finally, it is incorrect and unjustified that the police themselves should bear the costs, as much as EUR 230 million, resulting from the delay in the establishment of the National Police, especially in view of the finding in the review report that the financial position of the corps is under pressure. During the discussion of the budget of the Ministry of Security and Justice, we will be discussing this in detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u29	Perfect within time, Mrs. Helder. That is the way it can be done, Mr Oskam.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u30	Mr. Chairman. Mr Oskam succeeds in getting a few seconds. The precedent has been created!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u31	I'm ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u32	There is one thing the Minister of Security and Justice and D66 agree on: we both want one National Police. The former minister forced the police into a straitjacket, to achieve in just two years the biggest official reorganisation ever. D66 found that unfeasible and unrealistic. Big words about security and too many priorities, but no clarity for the police. The ICT is out of order and there's an empty wallet. An impossible task for the police. Mayors, agents, inspections and some political parties have spoken many times before, but the minister did not give home. We are here because of the stubbornness of the previous minister. He responded to all the signals with his spelling formula: we're on course. I'm sorry I can't raise that heavy voice, but I can say the words. It is good that this Minister acknowledges that mistakes have been made. Today we see the ruins that leave unrealistic political promises. The Minister is responsible for this, as is the administration of the National Police. D66 is concerned about the finances for 2015 and the years after. The financial setbacks are building up. The current minister lives on the brink. With his proposals, he mortgaged the financial future of the police. The Minister's promise that the reorganisation would be completed on 1 January 2015 and would cost 230 million has not been fulfilled. The reorganisation takes two and a half times as long and is twice as expensive. The parade of the VVD has lost its shine. This review of the reorganisation does not surprise my group. We thought these were very necessary. A surprise is at most that this minister is more cooperative than the previous minister. Up to three times D66 has asked through a motion to make the pace of reorganisation more realistic. Not only the minister, but also the coalition parties did not want to intervene. The Inspection of Security and Justice, the General Court of Auditors, the Police Control Commission, they have all issued critical reports. How is it possible that the cabinet has left these advice so long? The Minister writes that his predecessor has identified the bottlenecks, but why have the bottlenecks not been resolved in almost three years? The National Police are in danger of becoming a financial mess. D66 fears that the Minister has been beaten to the tune of Greek accounting. He shifts the problems before him, under the guise: after me the flood. Until Prinsjesdag, it is completely unclear how the minister will cover the additional costs of reorganisation and what the effects are for the police. There is an impossible financial mandate: 230 million additional reorganisation costs, 500 million savings, 250 million borrowed money from Minister Dijsselbloem. There are about 100 million a year costs by more police, an unknown amount for the extra aspirants and side-instromers and also for the failures of the real estate, according to the General Court, and I do not mention ICT. The police's own reserve is totally inadequate. How is the Minister going to put things in order and solve the shortage of possibly a billion dollars? How's he gonna cover the long-term setbacks? Is the cabinet willing to make extra money available to the police? Is the Minister gonna surprise us on Princess Day? I'm afraid not, because the good news has already been leaked. I would like an answer from the Minister. The cabinet must increase the power of the police, with sufficient capacity, stronger priorities and the right people in the right place. As far as my party is concerned, it's about craftsmanship, quality and knowledge. I am glad to hear that the Minister finally wants to strengthen the police force, with cyber crime and financial experts, but they need to be given a full position. And don't serve the current detectives, I'll tell the minister. The police need knowledge and expertise at all levels, not only for detection. But expertise costs money. It is important that not the criminals, but the police are able to respond to the changing society. Is the Minister prepared to invest in this, and if so, how much? How does he ensure that the knowledge is kept in the police? Why is 50 million less spent on vocational training? Mr Kooiman has already mentioned this. We are pleased that a plan has finally been drawn up for the re-examination of the reorganisation; now we have the implementation of this plan. Let it be clear that only the Minister is responsible for the situation arising from the National Police. Only the Minister can bring the reorganisation to a successful conclusion. Only the Minister can reduce the pressure on the National Police budget. Make sure there's peace and space for the police. Listen to the workplace. Provide craftsmanship and realistic priorities. Give mayors more control. Ensure a balanced budget and a fair collective agreement. Take care of this. Finally, convince us that security is in good hands with this minister and this cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u33	I thought it was quite a characterization of Mr Berndsen: Greek accounting. I can imagine. I also have critical questions about the financial underpinning of these plans. The D66 Group says that extra money should go to the police, because it's all very tight. Is that the announcement of a counter-budget, in which there is more money for Security and Justice and more money is reserved for the National Police?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u34	Mr Segers is already taking an advance on the General Political Reviews. I'm not gonna do that. We think it is important that more money goes to Security and Justice. And there are more holes coming, as I say to Mr Segers. Given the unachieved cuts on the other legs of the Ministry, there's still a lot to fix. But I'm very curious about what the cabinet itself is doing. The cabinet caused these holes, not us.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u35	I very much agree with the latter. I'll ask those questions, too. Mrs Berndsen said that nothing has been leaked about Security and Justice, so I assume that there will be no money. She's sorry about that. In that case, there can be another intention of the D66 Group, namely the announcement that extra money is needed, and that it is going to deliver it with a counter-budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u36	I would like to say to Mr Segers: let us surprise you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u37	Mr. Chairman. It was so nice that the National Police received the unanimous support of the Chamber. How did that happen? I also think that because a lot of MPs were listening to the workplace and many policemen said that it looked pretty good, that they could have faith in it. In the explanatory memorandum of the bill there were nice phrases: citizens and agents; agents should start to notice that work is getting easier; citizens will have to find that police care is getting better and that it is becoming safer; more room for the professional; less bureaucracy; less administrative pressure; a safer living environment; more effective detection. That just looked good, they were good plans. At the time, the Minister listened carefully to the ideas of the Chamber, which had adopted all kinds of amendments. We had good hopes that it would land quickly and well. Today we're discussing a review note. We're going to do some laps again, for example with the police. A number of police officers were sent an e-mail with the review note, asking whether they were confident that the correct bottlenecks were identified and that the chosen directions were the right ones. I'm really shocked by the reactions, including those of the agents I know as being quite positive. Honestly, it was consistent with the image Mrs. Kooiman sketched. In our constituency they are sometimes a bit more constructive than in the SP, but it's not about the color of the agents, but about their experience in the workplace. Then you'll hear that there's very little confidence. That's a key word that keeps coming back. The note looks good. The bottlenecks are being identified and the way in which they are being dealt with. But there is a great deal of frustration, I have already heard this word in a number of contributions and very little confidence. There's a lot of discontent. People are wondering about the relocation. I thought there'd be a lot more clarity. A distance of one and a half hours means three hours of travel in one day. The staffing in the CID is just undressed. People are speaking to me about the beautiful amendment I tabled on the district police standard. I was so proud of that, they say. I have indeed tabled an amendment together with Mr Van Raak and Mrs Kuik. We didn't want vague motions and promises, but we wanted the law to set a standard of one district agent out of 5,000 people, so this would be settled. People see, however, that the district cop is still not here. That standard is far from being met. There would be room for local priorities. When I ask the mayors how they are doing in practice, they tell them that they can identify local priorities, but that they often hear that capacity is lacking. "In large parts of our regional unit, we can't get any further than 1 in 8,000." Police surveillance in the small residential cores is getting scarce, I heard a cop say. The local embedding of the police leaves a lot to be desired. The confidence of many policemen in the workplace is insufficient or even gone. These key points come to mind when you put your ear to your ears in practice. That is why I ask the Minister to invest in particular in restoring the trust of the agents. When you ask people who have to deal with major reorganisations, you hear that there is always a growing distrust of the people in the workplace in relation to the management of a reorganisation in which everything is being called into question. That's normal in itself, but it's not automatic. It is then essential to be transparent, to show what you do, to do what you say and to live in the workplace. That's four tile wisdoms. If you deal with it this way in practice, so be transparent, show what you do, do what you say and live in the workplace, there's a good chance, despite the fact that there's a lot of things going on, to keep your trust. I'll give that to this minister as a big challenge. What possibilities does he see to make working to restore the trust of agents action number one? I ask him to recognise the value of good police work, to quickly reach agreement on a wage increase and to move quickly to final placement of agents. We often hear that the standard of one and a half hours travel time is a bone in the throat. Let local priorities really be the basis. Citizens, agents and local government are best served by this. I just mentioned the civilian. Is it true that I haven't met the citizen in the review note? Is that citizen still in the picture at the re-calibrate? As far as we are concerned, the standard for district agents must really be met by 1 January. In addition, I'm asking the Secretary of State to invest in CID. Without good detectives, tracking is a permanent problem and important matters remain on the shelf. I ask the Minister to cherish the experience of the current detectives. Let me get this straight. There's a lot of valuables in the review note. I see many good directions, for example for local customization, to solve the problems. Priority number one is restoring confidence and listening to the workplace. There really needs to be work on providing local customization. Local priorities need to be given space. The SGP Group would very much like the Minister to make a commitment to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u38	Mr. Chairman. More than two years ago, one of the largest reorganisations ever started within the Dutch government. On 1 January 2013, 26 autonomous police forces came together within one organisation. Since that day, the Netherlands has had one National Police, one team, working on one mission: a safe Netherlands. No one here will deny it: reorganising is not fun and certainly not easy, especially when it comes to the daily work of some 360,000 policemen and when fundamental interests are at stake, such as the safety of every Dutchman. The greater the appreciation that the VVD expresses today for all the men and women of the police, that day in, day out with dedication and professionalism, at a time when security issues are becoming more complex and at the same time the entire police organisation is being set up differently. That's worth a compliment. I told you, a reorganisation of this size is not easy. The comparison between the reorganisation of the police and the renovation of a house has been made more often and I am making it again today. Everyone's been through a renovation before. It is accompanied by dust, sometimes with a lot of dust, and often does not go according to schedule. Often the materials are delivered too late, there appear to be bigger problems behind ceilings when demolishing and the tiles don't fit as you imagined in the shop. In the case of major renovations, it is therefore important to be realistic and to keep the final objective in mind, to be prepared to adjust where necessary during the renovation and to decide to do things later or to adapt business. It's about the end goal: that renovated house. That's exactly how it is with the National Police. The Minister writes in his review note that the final goal is fully in place, but that more realism is needed. Adaptation is necessary to bring together the 26 police forces in a future-proof manner into one organisation. Big steps have been taken. The National Police as a collective organisation is paying off.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u39	Before Mr Tellegen goes into the future, I would like to look back. We have had a lot of discussions about the police, with both the former minister and this minister. It is only a year and a half since the previous minister swore to us that everything was in order. That was after that gesture Mr Berndsen just made. I asked him very specific questions about financial soundness and feasibility. The answer was that the plans had been tested. Less than a year and a half later it turns out that the plans are sinking through the ice. With this look back, what is Mrs Tellegen's political assessment of this state of affairs?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u40	I was one of those who asked very solid questions at the WHO last year to the then Secretary of State for Security and Justice. There was broad support in the Chamber for the idea that it should be looked at where else and better and that adjustments should be made where necessary. We gave that assignment to the minister at the time. You can actually see the review note we are discussing today as the result of organized self-criticism. Of course things didn't go well. That is why we all said last time: it is necessary to make some adjustments on the left and right. This review note is the result of this. I'm glad this note is there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u41	This affects the relationship between Cabinet and Chamber. We had signals that it was not going well and that it really got off the rails financially. That is why we have put intrusive questions to Parliament. The answer was: it's on track, it's good, we're on track, we've tested the plans for financial feasibility. Then it only suits us to wait. We did until the end of the summer when we got the plans. Turns out what? It is not going well, it needs much more money and much more time has to be allocated. Isn't that extremely frustrating for a Chamber that has asked critical questions and got zero on the record? Mrs Tellegen must have a political judgment on that, mustn't she? I do. I found this procedure extremely frustrating.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u42	I was very pleased that we all said in the WHO last November: listen, we are seeing some very serious problems. I would add that this is not very strange if you take the whole organization in such a fundamental way. We have said: Minister, we think it would be wise for you to consider what adjustments are needed on these points. With this mission, the Minister at the time began to work. I say again that it is lame, but I do not mean that I see this review paper as the outcome of the search for points where it goes wrong and where it has to be changed. Perhaps this note will be a little late for Mr Segers, but I would prefer to have a little longer time to think about it. Now, in the opinion of the VVD, there is something solid. If you want to make a political judgment on this: no. In an ideal world, it would have been nice if we had been on schedule and had not added more money. Of course. But it is naive to think that you can let such a massive reorganisation go on without a hitch.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u43	How can Mrs Tellegen use the word'search' when it comes to such a major reorganisation? That search should have been held before the plans, not after two years. Mrs Tellegen is now playing very nicely by saying that she also had a lot of criticism of the Minister in November. Mrs Tellegen, I say through the chairman, voted against a D66 motion calling for temporisation. Mrs Tellegen has just said that Mrs Berndsen wants to do that now is very early, but I am not ready for that temporization. And now say that you have also called for a re-examination? What do you think of the previous minister's intervention on this whole dossier?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u44	Unfortunately, I did not bring my contribution from the November legislative consultation last year. And no, I didn't sign a motion calling on the cabinet to temporize. At that time, I made it very clear to the Minister where the concerns of the VVD lie. For Mrs Berndsen, I would like to repeat my contribution. We have done this in Chambers, and we have instructed the Minister to look very closely at where things have to be different. I heard in the Minister's reply that he was going to work on this. Once again, I repeat my words, the review note as it stands is a result of the adjustments that had to be made.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u45	Yes, that was an outcome after the SP and D66, in particular, repeatedly and over and over again, for example, following inspection reports and publications by scientists, indicated that there was a need for temporalisation. It is not only a result of November 2014; that was richly late. Then let me quote to Mrs Tellegen: "I do not know if the solution lies in temporisation. For Mrs Berndsen, the solution seems to be postponement, but for me this now seems too big and too early." That was a month and a half before the reorganisation had to be completed in the eyes of the previous minister. If you hear it and look back on it now, how do you appreciate your own contribution from that moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u46	I appreciate that as very realistic. I said at that time on a number of points: 'Listen, this is where it gets stuck. Minister, what are you going to do about it? You're in the middle of a major reorganisation. I think it would be good if you looked carefully where you might need to make adjustments." That is exactly what we have sent the Minister along with. This is the outcome of that. Now Mrs. Kooiman takes over... that's how it always goes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u47	Yes, Mr President, it is right that Mrs Kooiman should take over, because I am really listening with my mouth open. After talking about this for the first time, we received three and a half years of report after a report from a scientist after research and research into work, not only from the SP but also from the unions, which said: this is going in the wrong direction. When does the Chamber intervene? Over and over again, proposals have been made: D66, ChristenUnion, PVV and SP. There have been several motions, which the VVD did not support, to ask for more time and more money. Where's the VVD? Can the VVD at least have the sense of reality to say: yes, we were too late and yes, there should have been money before?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u48	I can understand the sense of reality that I saw last year that this reorganisation did not go well on a number of fundamental aspects. We asked the Minister whether he would like to take a close look at this and make possible adjustments.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u49	Let me try another way, because we are not going to get anywhere with this. We have a new plan now, and not such a good plan. You have just heard my contribution. I'm not the only one to report that. The unions have been critical. This morning I found a very critical letter from the central works council in my mailbox. A number of leading scientists have also expressed criticism. Shouldn't we have a plan that is supported by everyone and certainly by the workplace?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u50	I have read the review note and I should like to hear from the Minister once again that agreement has been reached with all the parties involved in this reorganisation on the direction of the review note. Then I'm assuming it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u51	We have always heard the former Minister on critical questions say: don't worry, we are on course. I have often heard the former Minister say: oh, oh, oh, oh, it's getting better! It got so annoying at some point that you didn't ask anymore. In the end, there were a lot of critical reports in November 2014. That is what Mrs Tellegen says, but then she says: that is the result of organised self-criticism. Well, Mr President, it was the result of the fact that the unions often knocked on the door in vain. First of all, I would like to admit that my group has also had the hope for a very long time that things were going well. We thought: then there will be another report and then we will try to repair the already moving train. My group felt fooled at some point when it turned out that it was simply not. I have a question for Mrs Tellegen. It wasn't self-criticism, it wasn't listening to the unions! Now we have to listen to the unions, but I do not hear Mrs Tellegen. What would be her reaction to this review report vis-à-vis the unions and the people in the workplace?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u52	Mrs Helder did not understand me correctly. What is now lying, this review note, I see as the result of organized self-criticism. Mrs Berndsen believes that this is only because of the opposition parties and not because of the coalition. We can talk about this for a long time, but the Minister was sent on the road last November: it is not going well, there are a number of changes that need to be made. That's what this report is the end result of. I think that with this re-examination note there is a basis for a final successful conclusion of the National Police, which we all have in mind as a final goal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u53	Does Mrs Tellegen think that the basis that is now there and which she is apparently satisfied with on behalf of her group for the time being is being borne by the workplace?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u54	I have the impression that it is, because it is quite clear in the letter that the direction of this review note is very much aligned with all the players in the field, whether it is the regional mayor or the article-19 consultation or the unions. Then I assume it is, and if it isn't, I'd like to hear it from the Minister. I do not think it would be a good thing if there were no support for this direction, because it must go well now, and I fully agree with Mrs Helder. Let us now be confident that this is a re-evaluation which is the basis of a successful outcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u55	Mr Segers of the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u56	Mr. Chairman. I'm not done.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u57	Oh, I thought you were done. Excuse me. You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u58	The one who expected such a large-scale project to go without a hitch is naive. It is therefore wise that this Minister should be re-directed. And no, I just said it in the case of interruption: it is not ideal, but it is necessary. Reducing the quality of the final target is not an option for the VVD. It shows a sense of reality that the Minister is taking action on a number of bottlenecks. He puts the foundation in order, gives absolute priority to the human reorganisation, gives local customization more space and makes work of knowledge and skills. A few questions. The staff reorganisation must be completed by the end of the year. By the end of this year, all policemen and women must know where they will come to work. This is very important for the support of this reorganisation. An ambitious, but rightly so. I would like to hear from the Minister whether that is really a viable map, because it is September and it must be completed by the end of December. It is also important that the team chiefs of the robust base teams are relieved and given more control and that the district agent, who is the backbone of the police, is put into his or her power. How is he going to do that, I ask the Minister. What concrete actions does he take to better anchor local customization? What about local priorities? The police work demands and requires a lot. If there's any danger, the police will be there. In fact, the police take a step forward when we step back. Society has high expectations of the police and there are increasingly complex and new challenges, such as terrorism and cybercrime. That is why it is good that more attention should be paid to the well-being of police officers. I am sure we will be able to discuss this in greater detail. Two points for today. First of all, PTSD. Soon the care of the police officers will be anchored with PTSD in the Police Act. I would like to hear from the Minister whether he sees opportunities for the basis to move to more extensive strategic cooperation with other security sectors such as the police. PTTS complaints are the same for many servants in the safety chain. The base is the place where all knowledge and skills have been brought together and there you can also help police people with PTSD complaints. I'd like a response. Secondly, I have a question about police brutality. That's a subject that's alive. A series of incidents have put the police in the dock lately. Cops would use too much force. We will undoubtedly be discussing this very soon, but the VVD wants to say the following about it today. Agents working 24 hours a day for our security, sometimes forced to use force, deserve support, understanding and protection. We must trust that the officer who is forced to use force has made the right balance in all conscience. That does not alter the fact that every time there is a need to check very carefully whether the agent has acted correctly. What the VVD wants to do is that the cop is treated in a different way than a criminal who opened fire. The cop does this for his job, not the criminal. In the opinion of the VVD, regular criminal law may not provide sufficient relief here. Can the Minister respond to this? The Minister will also focus on knowledge and skills. There is a commitment to formation and resilience. There's gonna be more training. The VVD thinks this is a good development. In the short term, a quality impulse is also being worked on in detectives. The criminal world is changing, and that requires a different kind of detective work. It takes more people and other people to do that. An interview in NRC last weekend said that administrative burdens should be reduced and that too many rules and guidelines would lead to a culture of fear. Can the Minister respond to this? What is he going to do to make quick and thorough work of fewer rules? I thank the Minister for his letter on improper duties. It is the VVD's view that the police are being questioned on some points. That is not the case when it comes to the core tasks. I don't want to have that discussion here again. It's about the skin around it. The police's safety net function has been stretched. The Minister states in his letter that security requires an integrated approach. Where does he see opportunities to cooperate more closely within the safety chain, be it boas or 40,000 private security guards in the Netherlands? Finally. The work of police officers is crucial for a safe Netherlands. They maintain order, provide emergency aid and track down criminals. For years there has been talk of the establishment of the National Police. The VVD was and is in favour of the final goal: the National Police. The VVD is confident that with these adjustments there will soon be a robust police organisation that can handle all the challenges to make the Netherlands safe and secure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u59	It is interesting to hear that Mrs Tellegen, in the context of the PTSS, now also wants a hotline for ambulance and fire department staff. It is particularly interesting that it took the police three years for the VVD to support it at all. How does Mrs Tellegen think this should be designed? Is the Minister going to finance that, for example?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u60	That is not what I wanted to argue. There's a Veteran Act and the base is known to us all. This is a wonderful portal behind which incredibly much knowledge and skill is hidden when it comes to the reception of public servants with PTSS complaints. I am very pragmatic in that respect. At your request you will get 100% of my credits here, and the care for PTSS complaints will be anchored in the Police Act. That seems to me to be a good thing. That's what we have to do. Are we going to make a new column blue next to the base with the same care? The base is here. Knowledge and skill are there. Can the Base not be given a broader basis so that care is not only accessible to the military, but also to policemen and perhaps in the future also to firefighters and ambulance workers? I don't want to go that far right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u61	The care for the police has already started, including with regard to the Base. That's already going on, I'll tell you what. That's always been the point. Mrs Tellegen also mentioned fire department staff and ambulance staff. That's the interesting thing about what she says. We have discussed this in general consultations on national security. If she is now addressing this minister, how does she think that can be done? The Minister is not the employer of firefighters and paramedics.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u62	I think that's the last reason I don't want something. If that were the reason, we would not get anywhere else in the Netherlands. I just think of the base as a beautiful institution. It is now only wearing a green flag and I would indeed like it to wear a blue one and perhaps a red one and a white one, because it simply gives us one gateway for all those who are committed to Dutch security and are carrying around with the same complaints.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u63	We are having a debate today on the broken promises of this cabinet. For example, there are not enough district agents, there is no more blue on the street and there are no police volunteers. I can rename the whole list. If the VVD stands for security, what is she going to do to fix all those broken promises again?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u64	Today we are talking about a review note, an adaptation plan to a very ambitious plan for forming the National Police. I see this as a realistic adjustment plan, with which we bear in mind the ultimate objective, namely the formation of the National Police.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u65	The whole line I just mentioned doesn't come back into the plan at all. At least, for the most part. There is no mention of the burden, for example. You say in your own speech that there should be less bureaucracy. Let me get one point out, the trainings. That's what I heard you talk about. They promised to give more training. Then how is it that the VVD still supports the massive austerity at the Police Academy?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u66	I am indeed in favour of more training. I think it is good that they are now being announced. I believe that this is partly due to the rapidly changing security situation in our country. A double sum is being allocated to manage it now. Out of the 230 million, we're gonna have to get some of that training. I would like to know, perhaps just like you, from the Minister what part of that amount goes to those training sessions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u67	Thank you. Are you ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u68	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u69	Mr. Chairman. It was a beautiful picture. They were beautiful pictures of rulers on the beach. We saw jeans and a hoodie, lots of leisure clothes. Was the entire cabinet in leisure clothes? No, there was one minister walking around in a suit. He impressed me with that. I liked it. What I was hoping, however, was that he would also impress his colleague in the finance department. I'm afraid that didn't work out. We are talking about the cramped budget of The Hague, that of Security and Justice, in which money is needed, where we are short. As Mrs Berndsen said, the budget has not yet been leaked. We can therefore draw the first cautious conclusion that there is indeed no money to be added. I draw my first cautious conclusion that that was not possible also from the fact that the Minister has taken a grip on the police's own assets. I do not read that in the letter, but I read it in a newspaper with an explanation of the review note. In that the Minister said that this comes from the police's own resources, from the reserves. It's 230 million. I have some questions about that, but I'll get to that in a minute. The first question before us is whether the Chamber is always well informed. In the interrupting debate with Mrs Tellegen, we just talked about the fact that we have asked questions time and again and that it is only a year and a half ago, at the beginning of 2014, that Minister Opstelten said: we have tested the plans for financial soundness and feasibility and it is in good shape. Now we have a huge plan, twice as much money and twice as much time. It wasn't this minister who said that, but the cabinet speaks with one mouth. I ask the Minister to reflect on this. It is extremely difficult for the Chamber to check the cabinet if it has to do so with this information, which turns out to be obsolete so quickly and does not seem to be correct. It cracks and rubs more than a bit in the formation of the National Police. Cops complain that the summit doesn't understand them anymore. The gap is large and the organization is stalled. How come there's still too few district cops? How can there still be uncertainty about job descriptions? How is it that shift schedules are a disaster and that ICT is still a problem? Isn't that very difficult to work in an organization? As Mrs Helder said, this is about trust. However, the cabinet and the police summit have lost a lot of ordinary policemen on their way into this process. So, through all the Minister's new plans, the real question is how he's going to fix that breach of trust. What is he basing his continued trust in the police summit, when there are so many critical sounds on the ground about that same summit? Can he make that clear? Can he also reflect on his own attitude? In my view, we should be careful to conclude that the Minister has not reduced the gap by his attitude in the collective bargaining process. What's he gonna do about it? The Minister also made a comment on the quality of detectives. I share his concerns on that point, but this also has to do with late maintenance through political choices. Does he agree with me? I'm coming up on that money now. I'm not comfortable. There's 230 million coming from the police's own reserve. Has it just been discovered that there's 230 million? Has there been a smart civil servant who suddenly saw that there was still a lot of money to get there? What about this grip? Or is it an emergency hold? That is exactly what I am wondering when I look in the plans at the development of the general reserve of the police. If we remove the destination reserve, that general reserve will be 192 million in 2015. In 2016, that reserve is 192 million. Then where did the 230 million come from? I find that very difficult to rhyme with, and I am very curious to see what that looks like in the multiannual forecast for the National Police. Would it not be very beneficial for the General Court to look at this? Isn't the cops gonna fall financially because of her hooves? Can we not allow the General Court to conduct independent, sound investigations? Can we not allow the Court of Auditors to assess whether this is a sound financial plan? I come to the position of mayors. They complain that they do not have sufficient control over police priorities. The Minister now strengthens the so-called Article 19 consultation. However, what about the position of an ordinary mayor? So I am not referring to the position of the mayor of the region. What is the position of such a mayor when he finds in a municipality that the National Police are too busy with themselves and does not provide enough information about matters that affect the public order of his congregation? What is the Minister going to do to improve his position? Can the Minister describe in detail how this regional triangle is now strengthened in these plans? How do they really gain more control over matters that concern their region? I'm surprised at the Minister's plans for police volunteers. He's decided not to do anything at that point for a while. In early 2014, the goal was to reach 5,000 police volunteers in 2015. The Minister has already advanced this ambition against our will, and now I read in the plans that the recruitment of police volunteers will not be considered until after 2017, because all attention will be paid to the reorganisation. Why doesn't the Minister choose to give volunteer policy a permanent place in the new organisation? I ask that all the more so, as a huge number of external forces are being hired. I was at a police volunteer meeting recently. There were people who said: I have expertise or skills to offer that I could volunteer with the police, but there is no place for it. At the same time, external forces are hired. That is, of course, a very strange situation, especially with such a tight budget. Can the Minister give an overview of the number of external forces hired and their costs, and would he like to put that in addition to volunteer policy? In fact, I should like to ask whether he would like to lay that aside from the absence of voluntary policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u70	Mr President, I am speaking on behalf of the Labour Party and on behalf of my colleague Mr Marcouch, who is a normal spokesman on this dossier. Mr. Chairman. The enormous reorganisation of the police only succeeds if the ordinary policemen and women are confident that it will get better. It only succeeds if they have the conviction that their work is getting better. It only succeeds if they experience that they are appreciated, that their professionalism makes the difference and that the purpose of the reorganisation is to enable agents to do their job better. Such a reorganisation only succeeds if security is provided within the change. The reorganisation is not an end in itself, it is a means to better enable agents to keep the Netherlands safe. You don't get an organization of 63,000 people on the move if these people themselves don't want that in majority. Although much has already happened, that movement is still very much needed. The Labour Party was the last party to agree to this reorganisation. We certainly don't want to go back to 26 corps. I am convinced that the National Police can better guarantee assistance to civilians, security, public order than in the past. The reorganisation can then not continue as it went. Very quickly, the basis has to be put in order for the ordinary policeman and woman. When this minister arrived shortly before the summer, the first thing he did was recognize that the reorganisation was not going well. My compliments on this. The result is the review plan as it now stands. This plan contains what many before said. It is often written in almost unreadable management jargon, but it is there. I quote: the core of the recalibratement is quadruple. 1. It's gonna take more time to get the base of the force in order. 2. The personal reorganisation should be completed with priority in order to increase security and stability in the organisation. 3. The control and control within the organisation should lead to more space for customization. 4. Necessary knowledge and skills must be strengthened. It is therefore no longer a matter of top-down work, but of creating space from the basics for tailor-made work at regional level. The rake over, I quote the works council. I would also like to quote what the PvdA has been calling for for a long time: the Minister decides what the police can do, the authority, that is the mayor and the prosecutor what the police do. These are all good improvements. The police unions, on the other hand, which represent an important part of the staff, are not complimented on the pen. They put many good questions in their letter to the Chamber of 8 September. Underlying I read above all anger and mistrust towards the police summit, where trust is necessary. In what way will the minister or the police summit answer the questions of the unions? I agree with them that the plan needs to be implemented. And more importantly, what is being done to restore that trust as much as possible? As an outsider, I see little difference in ambition. Both the minister and the police summit as well as the unions want investment in training and knowledge at the base. How is that going to be realized? How is it prevented that the budget is mainly devoted to management and hiring externals? Is the training budget going up again? I welcome the investment in knowledge, such as cyber- and financial knowledge, to improve detectives. How is it ensured that current staff benefit from this maximum? Is ICT finally really gonna help? When will the cops benefit from the police service center? It's unacceptable that there aren't enough district agents. How's the Minister gonna fix this? Is this gonna happen in time? The date mentioned is January. Finally, are the new teams really in the middle of the neighborhoods, neighborhoods and regions in the country? This is the basic starting point from which the new police will work, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u71	The spokesman for the Labour Party rightly states in his speech that a reorganisation will only succeed if the agents themselves have the confidence that they will work. We have had a nice long letter from all the unions containing many points. They clearly state that they do not have the confidence that this plan is the right plan. Does the Labour Party agree that the Minister should at least return to the drawing table?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u72	I read that letter differently. I just told you how I read the letter. I experience angry unions and when you read through, the letter is about the same points: pay attention to the basics, get the training there, try to transfer local agents to other functions, don't hire outsiders, etc. This is what I read in the plan. I see, above all, a breach of trust between the parties and I call on the Minister to work on that trust. I don't read: what a lousy plan that is.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u73	I'd like to lend a hand to the Labour Party. The unions have expressed "no confidence in this process of formation National Police. As long as the key points described above are not taken into account, this will continue to be the case. In any case, the present review note does not give any reason to change our position to have no confidence in this process anymore." This says everything, doesn't it? The unions state that they cannot live with this plan: "Minister, do your work again."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u74	I said in my speech, and I repeat it, that the plan needs to be fleshed out and that the unions are right to point this out. That's what it says. What you are quoting refers to the questions raised by the unions in the text above. They need to be answered, that seems clear to me. But also the SP has to admit that the review plan simply has a lot of facets about which the unions complained earlier that it was not going well. For an important part, they're on the same page, crazy enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u75	I do not hear Mr Recourt talking about this massive setback of 230 million. How does the Labour Party view this? We have just heard Mr Segers say that it is probably from the police's own funds, but that is not yet certain. How should this be resolved according to the Labour Party?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u76	The reorganisation is rightly going to take longer, and because reorganising costs money, money must also be released in the budget for those additional years, a total of 230 million as you said. Money that cannot be spent on anything else. With you, we're very concerned about that. We're missing an explanation. What can't happen anymore? Isn't this at the expense of the very basis that needs to be put in order? How much money per which financial year is involved? I'd like an explanation from the Minister. Thanks to Mr Oskam, I have already been able to express this part of my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u77	I also find it worrying that we should ask these questions, that it is not yet clear where the money comes from. Anyway, we'll wait for the answers. My question is actually about the whole process. Mr Recourt has started by congratulating the Minister, in my view, for saying when he took office: things are not going well, we have to adjust and there is a plan. But this is a retrograde shadow over previous debates that we have had. I also put my question to the PvdA Group: how does it look afterwards at statements made by the previous minister, who said 'we are on course, it is financially feasible and the plans are sound'?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u78	I find it very difficult to see what it was like for October-November 2014. I note, however, that in the 2014 consultations, the Minister, following wide criticism from the whole Chamber, said that after the VVD: we are coming up with a re-examination plan. The previous minister has already said that. We were totally in agreement with that. What was it like before October-November 2014? I can't look behind the reorganisation to see if things were getting crazy back then; probably not screaming but there were signals. On that basis there has also been a performance, I suspect a bit late.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u79	Several spokesmen have spoken to various parties involved. Sometimes it was informal, but at least we got very strong signals that it didn't go well in the financial sense. If then at the place where you have to ask such questions in the Chamber of the Cabinet, the question is asked to the person in charge, and you hear "it's good, it's good, it's financially sustainable," then it must also be frustrating for the PvdA group to discuss here more than a year later a plan that says: the budget has to be doubled, it's no good, it has to be longer, it's not right? Doesn't that cast a shadow over the discussion we had with the Minister at the time?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u80	Of course, only I can't follow the timeline. That conclusion was drawn in the debate in autumn 2014. At that point you could say: how could it have gone well before that? At some point it went wrong. I cannot fully assess whether the signals were such that the Minister should have said at the time: we need to change direction. In any case, he announced in autumn 2014: I am coming up with a different plan. I can't say much more about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u81	I will spare Mr Recourt, because he was not a spokesperson in the field of police at the time. So I imagine he doesn't know that all those critical notes were already there. I'll come back to the 230 million. That amount must come from the general reserve of the police. That general reserve is empty. 250 million has been lent to Minister Dijsselbloem. So it will be charged to the police budget. Now I heard the Labour Party and the VVD say when this minister was a Member of Parliament that there should not be any further cuts in security. So I ask the Labour Party: how does it proceed?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u82	I have no idea. That is why I asked the Minister to do the same. It's probably going to be going to be I have to estimate that over financial years that are a little further. After all, the current organisation is budgeted. It will only take longer and those years must also be financed. In short, money that would normally be released to the executive police forces is not now exempt, because this has to be financed through the reorganisation. I have no idea how that happens either. That is why I have asked these questions and I have concerns about them. You can say it's a reserve, but you have to spend money on something, and if you spend it on a reorganisation, you can't spend it on anything else.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u83	Would the Labour Party find it acceptable to bring it forward with a cash drawer, placing a mortgage on the financial position of the police after 2017?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u84	Maybe. Maybe not. That depends entirely on the Minister's answer. I can't say right now. The attention is rightly paid to the high absenteeism and the psychological well-being of the agents. I also refer to the Berndsen-Jansen/Marcouch motion on PTSS (29628, nr. 442). I'm assuming that there's a good look at Defense, where my college Eijsink has done a good job with others. Increasing knowledge and skills can only mean improving the diversity of the corps. If there is no diversity within the corps, it does not represent large groups of Dutch. It is then at a very high risk of being faced with population groups rather than between them, because it does not have enough knowledge of them. Diversity as part of quality must. We're past the stage of fine words. When do we see actions? I have started with the conclusion that the reorganisation, without common purpose, trust and security, is doomed to failure by men and women who have to do it in practice and without confidence in their commitment and professionalism. This appreciation is also felt in the very difficult collective bargaining. The issues are officially separate from each other, but in practice the reorganisation will be very helpful in a good collective agreement. The cops deserve that, too. They stand for our safety in the middle of the front line, day and night, and sometimes even at risk for our own lives. I really appreciate that. I know the Minister has that, too. I wish him every success and wisdom in putting that appreciation into a good collective agreement and a reorganisation that is going to gain strength from now on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u85	I would like to welcome you all once again to the Chamber, in particular the govern ment, the support and all those who are following this debate. At this stage of the debate, I propose that a maximum of two interruptions be allowed in two. That has not been agreed, but I see that Mrs Berndsen-Jansen already stands for a point of order at the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u86	Mr. Chairman. Two interruptions are really not enough. This debate is really about something. I think we should be able to ask the Minister a little more questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u87	You need three interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u88	Well, I don't really want the number limited. Let's just see how far we get.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u89	You're in charge of your own order. Whatever you say. Not limited. What time do you want to go home? However, that does not matter for a moment, I understand. Mr Oskam pointed out that the first deadline had gone very well. I followed it. That's right. Okay, the interruptions go in half. "Unlimited" also sounds so inviting, but you are of course free to choose your number.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u90	Mr. Chairman. On September 2, 2015, I received the message that the wife of a member of your Chamber had given birth to a son, Benjamin. Benjamin Oskam had to do it without a gift from my hand because as a result of my work I have not been able to buy him a gift. Then I thought, "What's a fitting gift for Benjamin Oskam?" That is to ensure that he is mentioned for eternity in the Acts of the Second Chamber of the States-General. I would very much like to give that gift to Mr Oskam, who I hope will be gilded with it, as will his son as long as he lives.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u91	Father Oskam undoubtedly wants to respond to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u92	This is, of course, a lot of fun. It is a very nice gesture from the Minister, because it is now fixed. It's already happened at an AO about terrorism. I found that a little more difficult because there might have been terrorists listening. But in this context, of course, it is very beautiful. It also gives confidence to the rest of the debate, because it shows that this minister has a warm interest in his fellow man.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u93	Of course, I agree with the congratulations. Perhaps I can inspire the Minister to mention the second son in the Acts, that of my colleague Marcouch.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u94	I'd be happy to. Mr Marcouch is not here today because his wife recently gave birth to a son, a photograph of whom I have just seen. I say for the Acts that I've rarely seen such a beautiful newly born baby as Adam. I wish Adam and Benjamin all the good for the future. By the way, I find these two names very nicely fitting in with the Acts, which will appeal to the President, knowing that his Bible knowledge is considerably better than mine. This was a justified intervention by Mr Recourt.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u95	They are indeed beautiful names. This is a blessed beginning. I would like to give you the opportunity to begin replying.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u96	Mr. Chairman. I do not have the illusion that the debate will continue in the same spirit as it has just begun. I can describe the contribution of the Chamber as extremely critical. Many questions have been asked about the review document, while at the same time I also try to see that there is broad support for the idea that re-examination is necessary. I feel that the Chamber needs to take a look back. Questions that have been raised are, for example, whether we could not have done so earlier and whether the previous signals were actually a reason for taking action earlier. I can tell you that the Court also wants to look into the future and wonders on a number of points about the financing and whether I have confidence in the implementation of the review note. A large number of questions have also been asked on a number of specific issues related to the National Police. I'll start with a general introduction. Then I will take up two major issues, namely the plan for the re-examination as such and its financing. Then I come to a whole series of questions on which the Chamber has asked questions, such as the collective agreement, the district agents, housing, PTSD, the administrative burden, improper tasks, diversity and duty schedules. As I have said, the Chamber has put intrusive questions and pointed out signs that have been raised in the course of the time of the formation of the National Police, including in this Chamber. In addition, the Chamber points out the unsatisfied promises, frustration and the loss of trust among employees, but also among partners of the National Police. I am very aware of all these signals and comments. In these signals, I found and believe that the current review is necessary and that it should be carried out. My experience over the last six months has been that the National Police are and remain necessary. It is also right that the House of Representatives unanimously supported the formation of the National Police. If you listen to the first term of the Chamber, it seems that there have been parties who have always found this a very bad idea, but I would point out that this is not the case. I think this is understandable, because everyone saw that those 26 corps that I used to call in the conversations I had, 26 kingdoms were not a good idea. As a result, cooperation and effectiveness were hampered. There were 26 different ways of working in the corps. In those 26 corps, the wheel was invented over and over again. It was and is therefore necessary for the National Police to be formed. I also see in my contacts with colleagues that the Netherlands is an example in this area for many other countries, where they still have that problem, which we have solved with the National Police. What has been said by the members of the Chamber about its implementation, the level of ambition, the accumulation of new priorities during the renovation process, I can only share with the Chamber. I endorse that, along with the chief of police and the department. Indeed, it is mainly about restoring confidence. Mr Van der Staaij pointed out that this is the most important thing. I've experienced that myself in the many conversations I have with police officers. I often get the opportunity to consult with police officers, sometimes because they prevent me from entering or leaving, sometimes because they hand over presents in strange outfits, ranging from buckets of ice cream to pinocchios or other attributes. I take advantage of these opportunities to engage intensively with individual police officers and ask what their experiences are. I agree with the remarks made in Chambers, that there really is a task for the corps leadership to restore that confidence in the reorganisation process. The starting point of the review is therefore to lay a basis for restoring that confidence.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u97	The Minister is talking about restoring trust. It's up to the department to make that happen, so let me get this straight. There are problems in terms of staff satisfaction, so there is a great deal of concern among staff, in terms of ICT, closure of offices, a cultural problem, a problem with expertise, a problem with detectives, a problem with influx into the Police College. Everything you can think of is in trouble or in trouble. Let me sum it up at its Rotterdams: it's just a fucking mess. What makes the minister confident that the corps leadership, who completely screwed this up, is gonna pull this off? They're the same people. Why would they be able to do that now?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u98	This Rotterdam terminology might be less suitable for the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u99	It doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u100	Mr President, I realise that since the presidency of one of the eminently longer-standing Presidents, it has become common practice to leave all the terms, including those used by Mr Bontes, in the Acts. I do think it suits me to say that I don't recognize myself in that. I do not recognize myself in that terminology, but in the concern expressed by Mr Bontes, albeit not in all parts. That's not how I agree with him when he says there's a lack of quality in detectives. Look at what the police are setting up; then it just can't be true. I have always said that more quality is needed in the future. That's also in the review note. Mr Princen has shown this very well in his book. It is necessary for the future to improve the quality of detectives, because the challenges will be different. This is also endorsed by the corps leadership. I can go with Mr Bontes on some of the other points. There are certainly concerns. Precisely for that reason, my predecessor November last year, before the AO took place, together with the corps leadership, not only, decided that there was a need for a review of that reorganisation. Just because of that simple fact, coupled with the measures that I have taken together with the corps leadership, Mr Bontes has read them, like another steering method, another siege of where decision-making takes place, another role for the corps leadership, better support for the corps leadership and a redeployment of the tasks of the corps leadership, I am confident that the corps leadership will be able and able to handle it. That doesn't mean this is value-free. It means that I will closely monitor the force leadership on this point and will address her if necessary. That's what it says in the review note. Mr Bontes can rely on me for that. I'm asking him to trust me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u101	What's that trust based on? Everything's gone wrong in the last three years, hasn't it? Everything went wrong in the organization, from A to Z. That hurts me too, because I worked there myself for 30 years. So it hurts me, but it's a fact. Shopkeepers complain they're not being taken seriously. The Minister represents an entrepreneurial party. Well, those entrepreneurs are complaining rock and roll. Nothing's really going well. Everything's going wrong. Then how can you say you have faith in this department now? Because it's being controlled better now? Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u102	Let me say that what Mr Bontes just described is yet another step worse than in the first term of his questions. I really don't follow him. I really think this is wrong with what we're seeing right now. There are more than 49,500 police officers working day in, day out to do their job in an excellent way. They're much better supported in that. They have a lot more room to do their job. But there are certainly problems too, otherwise I wouldn't have had to do that review either. I am not saying that this is not the case, but as Mr Bontes now suggests, that nothing is working at all, it simply cannot be true. Look at the figures: the number of robberies and burglaries is falling, more arrests are being made in all areas, people get better feedback from their report. It can be done better, as I say in the direction of Mr Bontes, and I fully agree with him. But it's much better than it was. It's much better to work together. And when I ask the police for an action against the Bandidos in the South of the Netherlands, there are 400 agents from all over the Netherlands ready to give that Bandidos a firm turn around the ears. That had never happened in the old system. So do not let Mr Bontes come to me with the story that nothing is right. In doing so, Mr Bontes really does wrong to his former colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u103	If you really had that much appreciation for the police, you'd have a better collective agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u104	Mr. Bontes, we agreed to do our interruptions in two.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u105	Mr President, allow me to respond, because Mr Bontes has made this point. I can answer a number of other questions straight away. With regard to the collective agreement, there is one simple principle: there is a wage agreement, which has now been accepted by the large Dutch trade unions, all but one. The police unions, apart from one, are part of that. This means that the wage agreement is judged to be sufficient by the Dutch government officials, including those of Defence. The supporters were behind that. This means that this is an excellent starting point for the negotiation of a collective agreement for the National Police. For this I have invited the unions on several occasions. My door is open to the police unions day in, day out, seven days a week, 24 hours a day. Why? 'Cause the cops work by those rules, too, and they apply to me, too. If they want to come tomorrow or if they want to come tonight, they're always welcome to talk about everything. I am also saying this in the direction of the representatives of the police unions who were there in the first term and, I see, are still there today. Perhaps it is a good thing that I have now established that Mr Bontes' suggestion is incorrect. It's not me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u106	You can open the door and wait for people to come in, but you can also step through that door and see if you can find people somewhere and get further, I say in response to the last point. I have a question about what the Minister said about the Chamber. The Minister suggested that there had been a somewhat acidic reaction to the National Police and that it seemed as if the Chamber was opposed, while she voted unanimously for the formation of the National Police. It is not so much a question of whether or not there should be a national police force. The irritation with the Chamber, at least with me, is also to the extent that we have been included in a sometimes very difficult process. We understand that remodeling is difficult, can be disappointing and can be more expensive. The sad thing about this process is that we are not well informed halfway through and that we have now received a review note stating that it is going to be twice as expensive and twice as long.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u107	I understand that very well. That was not my point. My comment was about those spokesmen, Mr Segers, that was not Mr Segers, who pretended that the whole concept was wrong, at least, it seemed to me. However, the Chamber agreed unanimously. I am convinced that I also notice everything that the Chamber had also come to the conclusion that it was necessary. As far as I am concerned, there is still no doubt about this need. Mr Segers then wondered whether the Chamber should have been better involved. I don't know if that's true. In the past, incredibly many reports have been issued which have shown that there have been problems. Mrs Berndsen pointed this out, as did Mr Segers himself. I don't think that's ever been swept under the table either. Those reports were just sent to the Chamber. The question then arises as to whether a re-examination could have been decided earlier. Maybe, maybe not, I wasn't there myself. The only thing I can see is that, at the moment that we have decided and I have been given the task of implementing this, I have done so diligently. The starting point here is that it is now time for the police officer to rest in the organisation. I've said this a million times, but I'm only gonna say it again. That is what I am maintaining.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u108	Howdy for that speed. The point is, he's in the next one. In January 2014 we had a general discussion and I asked the Minister very strongly whether the signals were correct that it was not going well and that there were deficits. The Minister then replied that this had been tested for feasibility and soundness. He said it was a good thing. They said they'd make it. There would be a balanced budget and there would be no financial problems. That's where the irritation is. In this way, the Chamber is unable to fulfil its controlling role. May I then ask the Minister whether he will immediately inform the Chamber and take the Chamber with him, even if there is bad news, even if it is disappointing? Then we have a miserable general discussion, in which it is said that it is even worse than people thought. Then at least not a year and a half later we will be surprised by very unpleasant news.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u109	I can make that commitment without a doubt. I follow closely the recalibrate and its effects. I have just said the same thing to Mr Bontes. If I find that the recalibrate does not run as it should, the Chamber will immediately hear it. That goes without saying. The Court also receives a number of final documents. They've been asked when they're coming. They will reach the Chamber by 31 December. This will also include the practical details. If it couldn't work, the Chamber will hear it immediately. I think Mr Segers knows me well enough to know that I am in favour of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u110	The minister said that he also recognizes the restoration of trust as an important task. He personally explains it by opening himself up to a conversation with the police. I appreciate that. What else does he think it takes? What actions can we expect to restore confidence?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u111	That is a good question from Mr Van der Staaij. Maybe he'll allow me to make a comparison. There are very few people in the Netherlands who are not sure about their workplace. Mr Van der Staaij is one of them, along with all the members of the Chamber. It could end tomorrow. The following applies to the National Police. As a result of the so-called four-party consultation, staff reorganisation has slowed down for a year. That also explains why things aren't ready. That is not because the National Police have not done well, but because the unions, the co-determination, the police and the ministry have been consulted on the correct way in which it should be done. This means that the individual police officers of the National Police still do not know what their final workplace is at the moment. I know from my own experience how that works in organizations. I know how I was when I was in your shoes, or at least in similar shoes. It's annoying if you're not sure what's going to happen in the future. That is why I said that the top priority is absolutely the completion of the reorganisation of the workforce. If this has been successful, the vast majority of which will have to succeed before the end of the year, the system will work in such a way that relocation will take place in the first months of 2016 at least one of the basic reasons for trust has been fulfilled. In addition, I say with a look at the public gallery, that a fair collective agreement will greatly contribute to peace in the organisation. That's what I'm working on as soon as I sit down with the unions. To this end, they have been invited again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u112	I think that the two points mentioned by the Minister are indeed important, so I am glad that he mentions them. There is a new plan, a review, involving the unions and the more formal organisations within the total of the National Police. Does the Minister also see the possibility of involving as many cops as possible with this piece in hand, perhaps through larger meetings, where he can tell them where we stand and how we proceed? I heard one of the cops talking about the family feeling. Can he involve the cops more in getting the family feeling that used to be a little bit back?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u113	That is a very important part of this. I think that is what we mean, in a little more official language, by improving communication. Together with the corps leadership, Mr Van der Staaij and others, Mrs Kooiman is also a good example of this. I note that not everyone feels involved in the process. When you talk to the individual officer, you notice that he feels like he's not involved. Of course, that doesn't apply to everyone, but there are really examples of people saying: I don't know what I'm up to and I don't know what's happening. That is why Mr Van der Staaij rightly said in his first term that it is about transparency, empathy and doing what you say. That assignment is decided in the review note. I'd be happy to leave it to her, but it has to be done. I can say publicly here that this is an assignment that is contained in the re-examination note: there must be much better communication about what is going to happen to the people and what is the state of the reorganisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u114	The minister seems to be very pleased with the new reorganisation plan, but if you listen carefully to the reaction of scientists and the criticism of agents................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Is the Minister prepared to take a good look at the current plan and adjust it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u115	I know that Mrs Kooiman is generally exceptionally well informed. I have no doubt about her information about the police unions. Mrs Kooiman is someone who, in an excellent way, I say it openly because I admire her for it, can convey and present to the Minister the positions of the police unions one-on-one. I also generally respond directly to the views of the police unions when I see them. That does not happen at my negotiating table, but it does happen regularly at other meetings. I like to talk to them, because they are all very nice people individually, but they do not want to negotiate; that is annoying. However, I do not agree with Mrs Kooiman on participation. One of the essential conditions for the submission of the review note was whether participation was in agreement with what had happened. The answer to that is yes. In fact, this is the legal task of participation, unlike the police unions. The co-determination agreed. Does the participation then say "fine, we have a new review note and we'll hear how it goes"? Definitely not. I don't know about participation like that either. The central works council said he was critical on a number of points. First of all, he asked whether the implementation really takes place as described. That is an understandable point. I just said I'd check that out. Secondly, he asked about funding, because he is concerned about it. I will come back to that point. Both points are justified, but it is not the way Mrs Kooiman is now framing and putting it, namely that participation would not accept it. That is certainly not the case. The same applies to the unions. I have had constructive discussions with the unions on the review note. This is what they say. I paraphrase it; perhaps Mrs Kooiman would say that this is too easy. The unions are concerned that the implementation is sound: what is written must be done. That is the challenge I face, together with the corps leadership, who is primarily responsible for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u116	The Minister himself was able to read the letter from the unions. In three corners there are all points that the Minister should take with him. Let us be clear: they account for 80% to 90% of all police staff. They have a huge constituency and are therefore very important. As far as the collective agreement is concerned, if the Minister really takes the unions seriously, he himself will come up with a good offer. He should not say: they are welcome at the table, but I have nothing to offer. My question was, in particular, about the central works council. The Minister is right: the criticism concerns finance in particular. Minister Opstelten promised at the time that the costs of reorganisation would be borne by the cabinet. Now they are slightly higher, but of course that does not mean that the cabinet cannot take responsibility. Can the Minister answer that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u117	First of all, I would like to address the issue of trade unions. Mrs Kooiman says literally that the Minister has nothing to offer the trade unions. The same thing that Mrs Kooiman now puts away as 'nothing to offer' 5.05% increase and €500 at once is more than sufficient for the state officials, defence officials and civil servants within a number of other state cao's to sit down at the negotiating table and talk about a collective agreement. Mrs Kooiman then says: apparently all three trade unions who have agreed to this have seen that wrong, because that is called 'nothing to offer'. In addition, I have said that I am prepared to talk to the unions, at the top of the wage-space agreement, about everything in the collective agreement, whether it is about weekends or training. There is an offer from my side on paper about more training, which Mrs Kooiman may have missed. In addition, I am willing to talk about everything that people want to talk about. Piket fees, irregularity payments; I'm fine with everything. But then one has to come and talk. If Mrs Kooiman wishes to play a role in this, I very much appreciate it. 'Cause I know Mrs. Kooiman talks to the unions a lot more than I do. If Mrs Kooiman wishes to play the role of postillon d'amour, as it would suit the SP in the interests of the grassroots, I would like to invite her to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u118	Well, well, well. This is even an invitation to get closer. Mrs. Kooiman, this is getting personal; you may respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u119	The Minister says something about the unions which is totally untrue. But I would like an answer to my question. In particular, I asked a question about the central works council and its finances. It was a promise made by Minister Opstelten.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u120	I said I have an explicit financial component. I will come to that in a moment, but I am still working on the first two paragraphs of my general text. I am going to respond entirely to Mrs Kooiman's need, but I will when I come to that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u121	It's gonna be parked for a while. I call Mrs Berndsen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u122	We are not dealing here with the content of the collective agreement. I wouldn't really like that either, but if the Minister says that the government officials' collective agreement has been found by most unions, then I would say that a collective agreement for the police organisation is really of a different order. It is another organization; a 24-hour organization, where people are in full front line seven days a week. They go through very different things than I do. I don't want to be disrespectful. People sitting behind their desks all day. This also calls for a separate collective agreement. I call on the Minister to make real progress. It is not the place and the time to call in a lot of words, but I would like to call on the Minister himself to take steps. The actions are now gone, but nobody gets better: the Netherlands, not the inhabitants, but also the police.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u123	The collective agreement would still be discussed, but perhaps this issue could be dealt with immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u124	I fully endorse Mrs Berndsen-Jansen's position. The police cao is a totally different collective agreement than any other collective agreement. I also think that Mrs Berndsen-Jansen's analysis of the collective agreement also applies to the collective agreement for Defence: a 24-hour organisation of people on the front line, but in a different way. We all know that, but the same applies, of course. We do negotiate with the Defense Department, because there is a discussion there with each other. I think everyone is doing just now, and I sometimes taste it on the street as if I were the one who stopped the negotiations. They are truly welcome every day. There are clear agreements. I made an offer in a letter. That is all well and good, and I would be happy to discuss it with the unions. I will, as soon as they appear. I will continue my speech. I take full responsibility for this review note. I'm not running away from tough decisions. I'm giving more time to the reorganisation. At the same time, I reduce the assignment and temper the extra ambitions. The Chamber will often hear me say with regard to the National Police in the coming years, when I have been given them, that I understand the wishes very well, but that we must also talk about what we do not do, what we do less or what we do later. I will come back to a number of points later. In close consultation with the corps leadership, co-determination, supervisors and local authority, the review note has been drawn up and I am convinced that the note provides the right solutions to the problems identified today, but also to those of the past. I therefore assume that, along the way, the implementation of this review will restore confidence. Where this fits in with my responsibility, I will be actively committed to it. I'm also tasting that same ambition with the police department and the police chiefs at a meeting this morning. They too fully endorse this ambition. This indeed requires much better communication, Mr Van der Staaij pointed out. That's one of the challenges the Corps leadership really has to face. The supervisory committee has pointed that out, and I am happy to endorse it. Good, transparent and open communication is a necessary condition to gain and maintain trust. The police organisation can and must continue to improve in this respect. So that also means, I say to Mr Segers, that I am picking up this gauntlet with regard to communication with the Chamber. You may assume that, regardless of the consequences, you will hear it from me if there are any setbacks with regard to the re-examination. I come to the matter of consultation. Last summer, I was recalibrated. Actually, from day one, the recalibrate, a task I had received from my predecessor, was at the top of my agenda. That was also literally the case, because every morning at 8:00 a.m., a meeting started with the police department and all kinds of people involved, in order to fully integrate me into the phenomenon of National Police. In addition, every day we pick up a topic from the bigger problem to see where the solutions lie. I also engage intensively with the regional mayors, of whom everyone represents their own regional mayors again, with the Public Prosecutor's Office, an important player in this process because it is the recipient of the products of the National Police, and of course also with the central works council. The central works council also supports the review note, but has critical notes, which I fully understand. The supervisory committee is critical, but supports the principles. That is also what you expect from the supervisory committee. The broad lines are fully endorsed by the committee, but the committee says something that I am also listening to from the Members of Parliament: first let us see that it is actually being implemented, then we will see if it will be. I understand that and I take on the challenge of implementation. Of course it goes without saying, I say to Mrs Kooiman, that I would have liked the full support of the trade unions. I have therefore put in all the energy I can be expected to get this support, partly because, for example, all the points from the first reaction of the unions have been taken one-on-one into the review note. However, it has not been possible to incorporate the points that were raised yesterday, because the review note was already in your Chamber. However, I am fully prepared to look at these points together with the corps leadership to see what can happen in them. I fully agree with Mr Recourt that in terms of the basic principles and the measures to be taken, the unions and the re-examination note do not escape each other much. At this point, too, my door is open to the unions if a conversation is needed. I know that this point is much easier, because before that we have had the unions at the table a few times. I can do that. Unfortunately, it is a little more difficult when it comes to a collective agreement. The Court also found that the implementation of the plan of the past requires more time to process the political tasks. I totally agree with the one who said: it has to be faster, it has to be better and preferably it should have been yesterday. Clearly, this didn't work out. I expect there will be some setbacks, but I'm also counting on windfalls. It is not easy for a minister to say that you assume that there will also be setbacks, but that is the uncomfortable truth that goes with mega operations like this. Several Members have said in the first term that this is such a huge reorganisation that you should not have expected in advance that it would have gone without problems. That's too bad, but that's what it is. This means that the plans are now ready and that it is now a question of implementation. I told you, I'm gonna keep checking it all the time. That goes with my responsibility, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u125	The Minister is very firm. He wants to go through with this review plan. He wants to go on the road. What does he think of my next proposal? As a minister, you will focus on ICT and work processes. Breaking and entering takes care of the same thing everywhere. That's understandable, too. If you're gonna press charges, you're gonna have to be treated the same way everywhere. I understand that's what they're trying to pick up. The same applies to the purchase. It makes sense that it is the same for all those areas. If you take these three things out and leave the rest, including human resources, to the decentralised level of the regional units, then you can complete the reorganisation that is perceived as oppressive and pinching much faster. The reason why everyone was so in favour of the formation of the National Police were precisely those three things: ICT, procurement and working in the same way everywhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u126	What Mr Bontes is actually saying is that the system of the old corps was quite fun. He wants to go back there and centralize some things. I do not think that was the approach on which this Chamber fully agreed to the formation of the National Police. I don't like repeating why we did that. I'm just saying "we," because if I remember correctly, I wasn't a Member of Parliament at the time. If that were the case, I would have voted enthusiastically. I thought I had to. I do not think it is appropriate to follow Mr Bontes' suggestion that the whole thing should be thrown over again, that some dried grapes should be removed from the porridge and that they should be returned to organizations which no longer exist. That doesn't solve the problem. I do not think that Mr Bontes is a sensible proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u127	There is still a part of the organisation and that is the level of regional unity. There's chefs on that, and there's bosses there. That's only ten. It will bring you together once to work things out, for example how to deal with personnel policy. This concern is then gone and then we can continue to work on a local level. I am not talking about the level of a base team, I am talking about a regional unit. There are only ten of them in the Netherlands. If you let them fix the rest and you take out the three biggest bottlenecks nationally, you can solve this much more conveniently, faster and more effectively.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u128	There is no gremium in the Netherlands that I have spoken to, which shares Mr Bontes' position. Everyone sees the added value of the National Police. There is no one who has suggested that it should be that way. I do not agree with that myself. In all my contacts with the National Police, I see where the benefits lie and they are much stronger than the suggestions made by Mr Bontes. I don't agree with him.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u129	I shall return to the Minister's letter of progress. He was just talking about the article 19 meeting with the mayors of the region. In the letter I read that there is a need to do a little more to the authority in order to summarize it briefly. That is why the Minister wants to involve the authority more strongly in the important management decisions through the Article 19 consultation. That brings the force manager back through the back door. The regional mayors form a platform for consultation with the minister on the work and not on management. I'm really surprised at this. We would have two levels: the local level and the national level. Now, however, the back door essentially brings back that intermediate level. What's the Minister gonna do with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u130	I am glad that Mrs Berndsen-Jansen is asking this question. It's a fair question. I've had very extensive consultations with the mayors of the region. We have set up a special working group, a joint working group, to ensure that all legal provisions such as those currently in force remain one-on-one and should also be maintained. So there is no one, to reassure Mrs Berndsen-Jansen, who doubts the choices we made at the time, namely two levels: local and national. What is evident is that in the way in which the National Police is forced and necessarily designed from the beginning, namely on the basis of that centralising thought of making the National Police possible as one organisation, local authority has lost space. That's a complicated word, I realize. I'm trying to find an alternative: it's been reduced. That has been rightly criticised. I said I understand that criticism. I have heard this not only from the mayors of the region, but also from Mr Segers, who I think I have already said to Mr Segers about the individual local mayors. For example, if a mayor said in the triangle meeting that he wanted more to be done on the approach to football vandalism in his municipality, it happened that the police chief said: then I have to consult with The Hague. That's not what the law's supposed to be. That had grown and it had to be brought back. That is exactly how I made the arrangements with the regional mayors, because I personally believe that local authority, as Mrs Berndsen says, is the place where priorities should be set. Management rests with central and ultimately with the Minister. That's what it's meant to be, and it's gonna stay that way. That is why no legislative changes have been announced. It's been agreed that there's a different way to deal with each other. That's what's decided in that review note.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u131	It is an extremely bad example, because this is about the use of police capacity in football situations. This should be included in the comprehensive security plan, which has been established at local level with the Chief of Police and the Public Prosecutor, the District Attorney. It is stressed here that important management decisions are dealt with in the Article 19 consultation. So not policy decisions, but management decisions. If the Minister is going to allow regional unit heads to have more policy-free management space, then I think you are going to take a step forward, but not by placing regional mayors in a management position. That really is the corps manager back.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u132	Then I am sorry that we are only now having the debate. We should have done it earlier, when the letter was still in draft. Of course you can't. I realize that, too. What Mrs Berndsen-Jansen says is exactly what it is meant to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u133	I object to the remark that we should have had this debate earlier. We are now having the debate, here in this place.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u134	I think it's good to keep going.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u135	Mrs Berndsen-Jansen misunderstood my point. I mean to say that's exactly what it is. The point is that the police chiefs now have the space to ensure within the national frameworks that if there is a local need for a police boat or a police motorcycle, for example, they get it within their own budget. That is one of the examples of this agreement, as explicitly stated in the re-examination note. That appointment was necessary, and I made it for that reason. That had grown differently in practice. We have brought that back, in accordance with the corps leadership, to the way it was meant to be of origin. That is precisely what Mrs Berndsen-Jansen is asking.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u136	We benefit from clarity on this point and not just us, but above all the local triangulation. Forgive the casuism, but suppose there's a break-in wave in a local community. Then what possibility does a local mayor have to say, "Now I'm gonna talk?"
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u137	The local mayor may then decide, in accordance with the other members of the triangle, that the available capacity is more focused on burglaries than on any other aspect that takes place in his own municipality or in his own region. That's exactly what it's supposed to be. That is also the way the security agenda works, by the way. The Safety Agenda 2015-2018, which we have set out here, already combines such observations. However, once such a security agenda has been established, there can of course still be nuance differences and you still have to be able to deliver tailor-made local work. That is exactly the purpose of what has been introduced here. I also say to Mrs Berndsen that this does not mean that management is suddenly different. No, that takes place nationwide.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u138	I also ask this question because there is still a great deal of uncertainty at local level. What do these changes mean? I assume, therefore, that communication with the mayors and the municipalities will soon be taken up in order to create complete clarity. There are really mayors who say: I don't know what I can do and sometimes I feel impotent when I see what happens in my congregation when I can do very little.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u139	That is precisely why we, together with those regional mayors, have made 'behavioural agreements'. That's what we called them. How do we deal better with each other in such specific cases? In the 2017 budget, that policy freedom will be visibly regulated and that commitment of resources will be allocated to the police chiefs, within the frameworks set out nationwide.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u140	I would like to continue at the point where Mrs Berndsen ended, because I believe that this is a babylonian confusion of speech. It is clear: the main line is that management lies with the minister, and priorities lie with the prosecutor and the mayor. However, we also read in the letter that the Regional Chief simply has more control over the money. He does not have to go to The Hague every time, because he can make his own decisions. That can't be any different than management decisions, can it? They will then be delegated, albeit under the responsibility of the Minister. They come less centrally from The Hague and go to the region.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u141	Now it's gonna be tough, because this is a vulnerable point. The achievement of the National Police is precisely the fact that management is essentially regulated centrally. But the police chief already had the freedom not to buy a car, but instead a moped or a boat. This freedom is now explicitly enshrined in the review note and the behavioural agreements. It establishes that this freedom lies with the police chief so that he, within his own framework, can provide local tailor-made services. If that's what Mr Recourt means, I agree with him. But the chief of police, for example, can't get over it and can't get out of it, because then you'd create a kind of kingdom of your own, and that's something we absolutely don't want.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u142	So I get it. Of course, the local chief is accountable to the minister and not to the mayor or the district attorney. However, he will be given more powers. Is it a delegation or a mandate? I don't really care. However, he may decide more.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u143	He can fill in more and better what is needed to offer the local customization, in consultation with the triangle. I come to the element of're-examination' and the more specific questions raised by the members of the Chamber. Mrs Kooiman said: I am still too general in the review, because there is a lack of planning. I paraphrase Mrs Kooiman, because of course she said it much nicer. The subject of planning also happens to be reflected in the letter from the unions. I have already written in my letter that the next step that will be taken will be the elaboration of the plans. They are developed in more detailed, coherent and realistic milestones. Of course, this milestone planning also includes a risk paragraph. Moreover, there is, of course, also a financial risk section in the budget. Furthermore, for ICT there will be an adaptation of the Police Information Services Attack Programme. And there's going to be an addendum to the management plan. These three documents are currently being discussed with all interested parties and will be adopted by me before the end of the year, after the advice of the supervisors. At least that's what I'm assuming, and that's what I'm saying. The documents will then be sent to the Chamber without delay. I would like to make one comment. One of the measures we want to give more scope to the reorganisation of the National Police is to work with starting dates. That means I'm not gonna hang the police on unfeasible or overly ambitious deadlines. I send on the risks and the right effort, not on the red or the green box in large color overviews of deadlines that actually say little. Moreover, this would also deprive the police organisation of the possibility of making other choices in the process that are, on balance, better but may not yet be foreseen at the moment, as we make these agreements. Mr Oskam asked: what is the police going to do to make extra commitment to business? In the review I explained quite extensively how the room for the police is increased precisely in business operations. We explicitly choose to put the basis in order first. The improvement in business operations, which is urgently needed, is postponed. Choices are being made, priority is being given and the assignment is being reduced to give him more time. Mrs Tellegen has asked whether it is feasible for all staff members to be able to say this explicitly, because I understand well that Mrs Tellegen says that she knows where they will end up by the end of the year. The Chief of Staff will send the planned decisions regarding the placement of all staff before the end of the year. In principle, this means that everyone knows where they stand. The answer to Mrs Tellegen's question is in principle yes. However, there will be people who are so-called relocation candidates. How many there are is not yet to be said. This depends on the development in the human strength that is currently under way. The relocation candidates do not know before the end of the year where they will work. They will know that they are candidates for relocation. Before the end of the year, not all places for district agents will be filled, because I have agreed with the unions, Mrs Tellegen: with the unions, there must be room within the category of district agents to allow the relocation candidates to work as district agents after 1 January. Moreover, it is possible that someone who has been relocated does not agree with that relocation decision. Under the current regime, they are allowed to object. It is then possible that they may have been relocated to place A or B, but they may object to that. This is entirely provided for in the procedure, which is otherwise independent, followed by the national placement advisory committee and the regional and local placement advisory committees operating under it. In 2016, final decisions will follow for all those people, even after a careful objection procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u144	This human reorganisation is important for the restoration of confidence in and the creation of support for the path ahead. How many people are to be placed outside the group between now and the end of the year, which the Minister has just identified as an exception, and what is needed to implement this? What does that take right now?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u145	The placement advisory committee is assessing the discussions that have taken place with all employees to see who can be relocated before 31 December and who may be a relocation candidate. At present, no employee has had a relocation decision since it will be shipped in full at the end of the year. At the moment no one knows where to go, and that is one of the great pain points, I say in all honesty. By the end of December, it will be clear to the vast majority of people. There are then two groups of people left: those who disagree and those who do not yet know, because they are candidates for relocation and are therefore still able to enter the organisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u146	I have indicated in my speech that I think it is a legitimate, but also ambitious, ambition of the Minister. Is this indeed a feasible map?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u147	That's the big point. We have opted for a system which the Chamber has been actively involved in, in which this whole placement procedure takes place under the guidance of an independent placement advisory committee. I don't have any control over that. I have, of course, spoken to the Members of this House, and that is what you should expect from me. I have been assured by this committee that it will be possible to act in this way before 1 January. If this is not the case, I would like to assure you that you will be informed immediately. This is one of my major vulnerabilities, because I believe that the reorganisation should provide clarity for almost everyone with absolute priority before 1 January. This is essential for the success of the reorganisation. I would also like to stress this point to the placement advisory committees and the unions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u148	This is, of course, about the labour law side of the matter, but we are concerned that there are plenty of district agents. We're also asking mayors in the region what's going on. They say: there are vacancies. Or: there are no vacancies, there is still no recruitment. Or: people want to go to another place. However, they also say that when they talk to district agents, they hear: on paper I am a district agent, but that 112 car also has to drive and I always sit on it, or at least often. I actually want an answer to that. How will that be designed? I'm not quite sure yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u149	I have just said that Mr Oskam has asked this question before, not only today but also earlier in an AO and a VAO. I will give Mr Oskam the same answer in a moment, although I have already replied clearly, in accordance with reality. I'll do that when I get to my third topic.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u150	Then why don't we just park that till then? You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u151	I shall move quickly on to Mrs Kooiman's questions on the outline plan for strengthening craftsmanship. The Court will receive that outline plan for the budgetary treatment. I can now outline the development of that outline plan and also repeat what I said in general consultation Police in April, but knowing Mrs Kooiman, I do not think she needs it, but I think it is important that I repeat the commitment that it is for the budgetary debate in the Chamber. Ms Kooiman also asked if the Ministry knew of the 2011 report relating to the investigation of the detective states. Not all investigations of the Police Academy are published externally. Some reports are used to identify only internal cases and make recommendations for improvement. The report on investigative cases has not been published externally, but only used to discuss internal issues and possible improvements. From the research question, the report focuses unilaterally on bottlenecks according to a number of interviewed respondents from the detective, science and the Public Prosecutor's Office. In our current view, it does not give a nuanced picture of the detectives as a whole, nor does it focus on the improvement initiatives that have been under investigation for a long time since 2011. The report has been central to several improvement sessions. Mrs Tellegen, Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Segers asked about local customization. I think I've already answered that question in full. I would like to make one more point about this, including in terms of the advocacy of what has been going on in the past. In the past, each unit and sometimes even every police station had their own channels to shape the procurement, for example. If a USB stick was needed, they ran to the nearest store to get a USB stick. This leads to illegal purchasing. That is one of the points that has been taken at the heart of the matter. The starting point, as I said in reply to questions from Mrs Berndsen-Jansen and Mr Segers, is that local tailor-made work, as provided for by the law, is better secured by making additional working arrangements.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u152	I often hear the practice that there is goodwill on all sides, but that there is no capacity. That doesn't solve this plan, does it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u153	That's a bit of a general question. At the moment, more than 400 tendering procedures need to be launched, I would remind you. Many of them have already started, some of them with a number of specific problems. Mr Van der Staaij understands that in the first two years of your reorganisation you will not be able to do 400 tendering procedures. You can't do that unless you put a giant organization on it. Despite the hiring of externals.... a vulnerable point..... at this point, among other things, that will not work. So yes, in those areas we have chosen to do the tenders on a temporary basis and to do the most urgent first and to wait with the smaller ones until they are necessary. At this point, for example, there is no capacity to pick it all up at once, that is correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u154	I'm still looking. What can I say to the mayor I have spoken to and who is wondering whether that local customization will really be there and how he can rely on it, to reassure him on the note and on this debate?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u155	There are very specific working arrangements which give the mayor and his police chief more room to do what they have to do, which was also provided for by law. There are also capacity agreements, namely that each region has its own capacities. Very recently I expressed my deep concern about the availability of sufficient capacity in Limburg. That is why I took measures on this point, because it threatened to fall below the agreed capacity, partly because of an ageing population.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u156	I'm gonna take up the call for tenders. That is exactly one of the examples of where I think it sometimes goes wrong in this reorganisation. I've been looking a little closer myself on how that goes around forensic care. That's what the G.D.D. is involved in. There's an agency tender at the National Police. He's mostly paying attention to the pennies. That tender went wrong, and now we need a new one. Can the Minister tell me if the police have learned from that? Is there also a look at the ordinary policeman who needs forensic care and who has an easy window at the GGD? Is this type of quality aspect included in the procurement process or is it still a centralised service that really has only cents as its core task?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u157	I cannot go into that particular example because it is under consideration. This would lead to me interfering in procurement procedures. This is very fragile, even in a European context. However, I can give you another example. You can look at the supplies in two ways. You can say we need pens, so we order blue pens. There's a lot to say for that. If you centrally say "blue pens" and everyone writes with a blue pen, that's fine. If it turns out that there is a need for orange and green pens in a region, then you immediately created a problem. I think that this may have happened in the past, but I do not want to talk about it too much in a recognizing sense. The starting point of the current idea is to identify which color pens we need and then the tender will take place. This is also the case with cars, boats and motorcycles. You look at what the necessities are in the country and then centrally do that tender. Then you do two things. You deliver customization, you make customization possible, and you can centrally tender it so that you can keep the costs as low as possible, how to further shape it. We are therefore going to work much more with a catalogue from which you can make choices as regional police chief, rather than prescribe the choices. The package is therefore wider, but it is delivered centrally. Mrs. Kooiman asked what the workplace would do with this re-examination plan. As I clear all the room for this reorganisation, the workplace will know where it is at the end of the year, on the basis of that system which I have just explained to Mrs Tellegen. Much more attention will also be paid to the well-being of the staff. That is a second main pillar and a point for which Mrs Kooiman has frequently called for attention. And rightly so. This is both in terms of knowledge and skills and in terms of training, assuming that with the unions I can look back at the public gallery again to make good agreements under the collective agreement, but also in terms of aspects such as PTSD, which Mrs Tellegen has called attention to. The essence is that uncertainty must be eliminated and, as far as I am concerned, the uncertainty about salaries. Mr Van der Staaij asked: what is the role of the citizen? What is the role of the inhabitants, of the Dutch in the review note? It is clear that the National Police is meant to make the Netherlands safer. The particular feature of this very complex reorganisation, however, is that the performance of the police has not only been maintained, but that the performance of the police in many areas has been shown to have improved significantly. The police will therefore be given a police force that will remain close to the neighborhood, in accordance with the legal agreement, despite Mr Oskam's criticisms, which I will come back to in a moment. Services are also being improved. So we're not reorganizing to reorganise. That is not an end in itself, as I have heard one of the Members say. We are reorganizing to get a much better police organization for the Dutch and our residents. That is and will remain the starting point. I have a very good example of that. As you know, according to some media, last week I was at the Police Academy a little longer than anticipated. That was not the case in practice, but it was a very nice action by the police unions. This was a very nice action, let me add. It was also a very good and respectful action. It also showed how difficult the work of the average police officer can be if it arrives shortly after a serious accident at the place where it took place. That was also depicted in a tremendously penetrating way by Lotus victims. When you see that again, you can only have a great deal of respect for the work our policemen and police women do day in and day out for us. That is what I am saying in the transition, but that is precisely why it is intended that the public should simply notice that the police organisation is more adequately organised to get to work. One of the great examples is the MEOS project. I know that a number of Members of the Chamber have seen this by now. In Gouda a pilot is currently being done with this. In doing so, the declaration is made to people at home. They immediately receive an e-mail with their own declaration papers. In this way, the individual agent is able to independently request all the information he has been able to obtain until now only via the main office's portophone. These are important developments that will really help people and greatly improve the service of the police to the citizens. As far as I am concerned, this is also a condition of the whole reorganisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u158	Mrs Helder is one of the MPs who saw the MEOS project on the street, coincidentally last Friday. But the fine story that the Minister is hanging up on this is not entirely correct. The project is called Mobile Effectiveer On Street, but in "on the street" is now just the core. The cops aren't there, witnessing the conclusions of the inspection. There are just too few district agents and the base teams aren't in order yet. I think that is where the people who should be on the streets with that equipment should be effective. "We have a device" sounds very nice, but the one who should be on the street with that, we don't have. Can the Minister also shed his light on that for a moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u159	I can reassure Mrs Helder. I also know that she has deliberately raised the question a little bit. Of course, it is not the case that out of the agreed number of 49,500 police officers, there are actually more people on the streets, as Mrs Helder says. There are big numbers of cops just out on the street: day in, day out, early in the morning and late in the evening, in good weather and in bad weather. Very soon they will all be equipped with this equipment with which they can do their work very quickly and effectively. The fact that we still have a number of district agents to join is something that I have acknowledged in this House. It's also in the pieces. The fact that the base teams need to get organized is in the review note. That's what's gonna happen. I'm giving the police extra time for that. When Mrs Helder asks if it will be ready tomorrow, I answer: look in the documents; the answer is no. She knows the answer. But Mrs Helder's suggestion that there should be no one on the street should go too far even for the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u160	Mrs Helder will undoubtedly want to respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u161	That's right, Mr. Chairman. I didn't say that at all. It's not like I said it in a certain way. I just want to focus it, because that's my job. I am glad that I always get the Minister a little angry, because then there will be another answer. We can laugh a bit about that, but the essence of the matter is, of course, serious. I did not say at all that there is no one on the street, but I did say that there should be more people with that Mobile Effectiveer on Street. The minister says: look, we now have the project Mobile Effectiveer On Street. But a project without people is of course not a project. That is not in a way to charge, which my group believes is doing. No, that's the focus and naming the facts. I'm glad the Minister admits there's still a lot of work to be done. I also hear with interest what else he is going to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u162	That's not a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u163	No, but I think it is very good to congratulate Mrs Helder on her last remark. I repeat and underline what I wrote in the review note: a great deal of work needs to be done. Let me say the following for the sake of clarity, including for all those who are watching this debate. It is not so that with the recheck note in hand, if we all find that in a moment, I can taste it, even though it is reluctant and perhaps with critical notes, that this has to be done now and that this is the right route, we can then say: we are ready; I am going to go to the next subject. That is precisely not the intention of the review note. The review note imposes a heavy task on me, on the corps leadership and on the entire organisation of the National Police. It will have to be carried out carefully. There will have to be a lot of energy in that. In the end, it has the aim of being able to meet all the commitments. That's the way it says it. That is exactly what I can easily commit, not only to Mrs Helder, but also to society. Because that's what I worked so hard on last summer, all these months. As far as Mrs Helder's suggestion is concerned, she really said that there would be no policemen on the streets, even she must note that this suggestion was absurd. The Acts will show that Mrs Helder has literally said so. I come to the heading "finance." The finances are divided into two parts. We have the police's finances in general and we have the reorganisation costs. I'll start with the first one. The Chamber has expressed its concern about the police's finances. By this she means the budget available to the police. I can only say that I understand these concerns very well. I myself am not free from concerns about the budget made available to the police. The Chamber will receive the police budget on Princess Day, as will the budget of my ministry. It doesn't suit me to anticipate that specifically. In general, I note the following. The police can deal financially with the challenges of re-evaluation according to the insights of today. It remains inevitable that the current higher operational strength will gradually decrease to the affordable strength, as agreed with the Chamber, namely those 49,500 people. That is also the basis on which the establishment is based. The re-examination could mean that certain funds would have to be redeployed within the police budget. I repeat once again that you cannot say in this financial framework: no matter what you do, you will never make up your mind. This is a tight framework, appropriate to the crisis period we have come out of. In fact, staying within this tight framework requires very careful guidance and also great executive power of the corps leadership. It takes a firm effort to achieve the planned savings. I will follow that closely and report back to the Chamber. My starting point is that, in the longer term, the continuity of the police organisation is and will remain secure. I also announced in the review note that in the coming year I would investigate the following question: whether, with the planned budget for material costs, the currently well-known ambitions in terms of performance, strength, service, quality of personnel, housing and ICT can actually be realised at that rate. I would like to reiterate my explicit commitment to this research.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u164	The reduction of strength could mean that policemen would be fired as part of the re-examination process.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u165	I don't think so. The starting point of the agreements with the participation council and with the unions is that there are no redundancies. Mrs Kooiman will undoubtedly be able to confirm that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u166	Then how are you gonna bring down that strength significantly if there's no forced discharge?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u167	If Mr Bontes has read the documents I have sent to the Chamber in the past few months, he will see that, contrary to what I have agreed with the Chamber, I am maintaining an additional strength. There are two reasons for this. The first is that I need more people at the police academy than I do within my budget. If I don't, I'm gonna run short in a couple of years and come under. So I chose to hire more people at the police academy. The second reason is that for a number of regions there are more people working than agreed. We foresee that in the short term people will disappear because of the ageing population. Otherwise, they'd fall below the strength again. In this way, the decrease in the number of police officers will go naturally, according to the agreement with the Chamber about those 49,500 people.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u168	Let's see then believe.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u169	Mr Bontes is right to say that more agents must leave, because apparently there is no money for it, or because the cabinet does not want to make any money available for it. Speaking of money, I'm still confused. There is an additional 230 million invested, but that comes from our own budget. In the end, the agent on the street has to pay the price for the failing policy of this cabinet. I'm very curious where the Minister finds this money.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u170	The Minister can explain that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u171	Maybe it's good to finish this block first. I just announced that I would do this block on general finance first. That's what I was doing. After that, I was going to talk about the costs of reorganization. I'm gonna do that in a minute, but I'm gonna finish this block for the review.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u172	Is that okay with you?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u173	Allow me, I have announced that I have two points: one on general financing and one on restructuring costs, so that comes naturally.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u174	Yes, but there may be urgent interruptions, and we also want to honor them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u175	Yeah, about the strength. Of course, I have no objection to it if it is above the formation of the police, but the question is how the Minister will pay for it. He's already over Then he's gonna send extra people to the training: 300 side-instromers are added. That means a lot financially, that could just be 100 million. So we find together that the affordable strength is 49,500. That is the amount of the budget. Everything that's up there means extra finances that, left or right, go off the police budget again. What does that mean for the police organization?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u176	This means for the police organisation that these are greater than the strength agreed with the Chamber for a number of good reasons, which I support. If we were to reduce the number, I would indeed have to break the agreements I made with the unions, and I do not want that. I therefore share Mrs Berndsen-Jansen's view that it is so good. It has to be like this. But I also gave the example that in recent years, due to the reorganisation and improvement of administrative processes, there has been a battle from 11,000 to 8,500. That is where room has been found to provide for this additional funding, without at the expense of the organisation itself. I shall come back to that in a moment at the cost of reorganization.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u177	Yes, but reducing the staff by setting up these police services centres is the 230 million in savings already made by the police. The Minister is shaking no now, but it's just the way it is. That was an additional cut because of the efficiency of the police organisation. I understand that all these amounts are similar, the 230 million for the reorganisation and also the 230 million cuts. If these cuts are not made, which it looks like, then you are going to blow a hole in the budget. If you are above your strength, you spend more on human resources than you have foreseen in your budget, so you shoot a hole in your budget. I can go on for a while. The Minister is talking about general finance. I've now named a nice state. I'm very curious what all this means financially for the police organization. How the hell is she gonna get out with that money? Or does the Minister say that it doesn't matter, at the end of the year plus I'm just joining?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u178	Let me say first of all that I would very much like to endorse Mrs Berndsen's last phrase: at the end of the year, it does not matter, and I just add it to that. Mrs Berndsen-Jansen also knows that this is not going to happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u179	That used to happen, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u180	That wasn't at a time when a crisis was just over. Let me say first of all that the police budget, which we are going to talk about in the context of the budgetary procedure, is the place to have this specific debate on the euro. In general, I would like to agree with Mrs Berndsen-Jansen. For all kinds of reasons, which she knows as well as I do, the current police budget is a challenging budget. After all, not 230 million in savings have been made, but in total, over the entire length of the reorganisation up to and including the year 2020, 500 million. That is a difficult task. We will have to sail firmly to the wind to meet that. If that doesn't go well, because of my responsibility, I'm going to have to look for cover for the problem, along with the Corps.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u181	Mrs Berndsen, of course, raises a very interesting point: this increased capacity. Of course, it brings an increased influx into the police academy. During the training sessions there is a huge amount of late maintenance. Is the police academy getting any money?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u182	A very good question, which will undoubtedly be answered by Mrs Kooiman in the budget I will be presenting before the budget debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u183	You can't do this. We're talking about a re-examination plan right now. The Minister uses great words about training and capacity. Then he can't say he does have a plan, but he's not gonna tell us about the finances. That's not possible. We're discussing the plan today, and then I want to know what's going on today.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u184	I understand that very well. I will explain to Mrs Kooiman in a moment what the costs of reorganisation are if she gives me the opportunity to do so. However, I am not going to explain the budget of every section of the National Police, for the simple reason that we agreed with each other that we do not. I'll say something about the cost of reorganization. I am also getting ahead of it, but I can see that I have to give that part of the information in the context of the review, and I will do so. I had stayed with the general part of the funding. I want to make sure that the continuity of the police organisation is guaranteed in the longer term and that Mrs Berndsen-Jansen will continue to address this point too, and that is why I announced in the review note that I will have research carried out in the coming year to see whether, with the now foreseen budget for material costs, the currently well-known ambitions for performance, strength, service, quality, staff, housing and ICT, I say to Mr Bontes, can actually be achieved at the planned pace. I will include the results of this in the forthcoming budgets. That is not the budget we will be discussing in November. Mr Segers asked me whether the General Court could carry out this inquiry. The General Court has already assessed the accountability of, among others, the National Police on an annual basis. So I will not have the inquiry done by the General Court. The General Court of Auditors may, however, involve this inquiry in the accountability assessment. Then I'll come to the cost of remodeling. I know that the Members of your Chamber are very interested in what I can say about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u185	Mr Segers has another interruption about the previous Lemma.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u186	I had asked the Court of Auditors to look very specifically at this 230 million. What does this amount do with the entire police organisation and the multiannual budget? It is fine if the Court of Auditors looks at a budget in general, but I want this point to be looked at very specifically. What is the result of this in the longer term? If the Minister agrees to do this, we're done. If he doesn't promise, I'm thinking of a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u187	That sounds threatening.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u188	A motion on this point does not seem very timely to me, but I am not sure if I can promise it, I say in all honesty. I've learned that in this business, if you don't know something, you just have to say it honestly. That's what I'm doing here. I have a meeting with the General Court shortly. I will put this question there. If the answer is negative, I will inform the Chamber in writing. Then I think Mr Segers has what he needs. If the Court of Auditors is okay with it and wants to look at it, the point is off the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u189	Before I decide not to file my motion, I need to know exactly what I'm getting. The Minister will ask the Court of Auditors if he is able to look at it and tell us more about it. Does it or does it not depend on the capacity of the Court of Auditors and not on the will or unwillingness of the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u190	It depends on the capacity, competence or manner in which the Court considers it necessary to do its work in the light of its legal task. That is all I can say. I just don't know how that goes. I'd be happy to look into it. If the Court of Auditors is unable to meet Mr Segers' question, I will inform the Court of Auditors accordingly. If Mr Segers wishes to table a motion in that context, then that is up to him. I can imagine. Then I'll come to the cost of remodeling. The central works council drew my predecessor and the Chamber's attention, I remember, last year to the higher costs of reorganization which he expected. In the context of budget preparation, these costs have been updated on the basis of the most recent insights. This has shown that the costs will indeed be higher, in particular because the reorganisation will take longer. It was planned that it would be almost ready by now. The original estimate of the reorganisation costs was made in 2012. A total of EUR 230 million was made available. In the meantime, there is much more insight into the placement of the employees and the associated costs. The cost of reorganisation is now estimated at 460 million euros. These higher costs have been included in the 2016 budget. It is important that everyone knows exactly what these costs are. In this case, additional expenditure on staff is involved, such as the additional travel costs for those who have to travel through the reorganisation. It is also a question of costs to be incurred for departure incentives, for support and guidance and, for example, for outplacement, to enable people to continue their careers elsewhere if they can no longer remain within the organisation as a result of the reorganisation. In addition, there are longer ongoing costs of reorganisation, such as costs for extra temporary housing, for the project organisation and for external hire. Before everyone gets alarmed again, I report that it has been decided to hire outside on the advice of the central works council itself. It has indicated that external hire is necessary to ensure that the reorganisation takes place at the required speed. Here it comes. The higher costs of reorganisation are covered by estimates and redeployment of the budget itself. For example, there are much lower burdens on regular commuting than previously assumed and there are lower human burdens due to faster staff outflow, partly as a result of the departure incentives schemes. I have just said in reply to a question from Mrs Berndsen-Jansen that of the 11,000 supporting staff there are 8,500 remaining. So many more people have left than originally foreseen. The use of these estimates and adjustments means, however, that I am quite clear in saying that the risk profile in the budget is increasing. Normally, these additional unforeseen revenues would be added to own funds. I will also answer a question that has not yet been asked, but could be asked. Could you also make other financing from this additional income, such as structural funding? The answer is 'no', because these additional windfalls are occasional. So you can't assume that they'll be there every year. So I did not have to call on the budget of the National Police itself, because these costs are above that budget. Nor do I need to rely on own funds, but I cannot strengthen own funds, as I mentioned in the explanatory memorandum on the review note.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u191	Try making that chocolate. I can't do that when I thought I could count nicely. The Minister says that there has been a cut because out of the 11,000 supporting staff there are only 8,000 left. So 3,000 people have already left via natural course or with a certain arrangement. That brought with it costs. They will be charged to the restructuring budget, because they are costs under the social status. It also raises money, because you don't have to pay those people anymore. Now I hear the Minister say that he can pay part of the costs incurred by increasing the restructuring budget by 230 million from his own budget, because the salary of those 3,000 people no longer has to be paid. However, the salary of these 3,000 people came from the budget of the police and not from the budget of V and J. This is really about precision. The Minister first said that it was charged with the reserve position of the police. I get that he's gonna come back to that now, because there's nothing left in that spare. The police even had to borrow 250 million from Dijsselbloem to keep an eye on her reserve position. So she's already living on the puff. There's just no money. I was just saying that the formation is bigger than it can be paid for, and then this adds up. Before we start discussing this endlessly, I would ask the Minister to send a letter to the Chamber in which he emphasizes the 230 million he is going to increase on top of the restructuring budget. How will this amount be compiled and to what extent will it be charged?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u192	That seems to me to be a sensible proposal. Is the Minister prepared to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u193	Of course. That letter is called the budget of the National Police. I will send it to the Chamber very soon to discuss it in the budgetary procedure. I can see if after Princess Day, after the presentation of all the pieces, I can highlight that piece to inform the Chamber separately. Then I will also inform the Chamber of own funds, which, unlike Mrs Berndsen-Jansen says, closed at EUR 486 million at the end of 2014.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u194	If we follow Mrs Berndsen's proposal, we should not discuss it now. After Prinsjesdag there will be a further explication about the financial position with regard to reorganisation costs and everything related to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u195	I hear Mr Oskam say outside the microphone that he likes...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u196	No, no, that's not the M.O. I give Mrs Berndsen the opportunity to ask a follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u197	Since the Minister mentions an amount that would be in the reserve position of the police, I would like to comment on it. We are now, of course, talking about the general reserve. We are not talking about reserves of destiny, because we cannot get there. The police forecast was 205 million by the end of 2014. As of 2015, the maximum overdraft has been implemented at the Ministry of Finance to cover the negative result, the withdrawals from the assets and the investment, which means that the postal current of the Ministry of Finance will be negatively budgeted at 250 million on a multiannual basis. A loan has therefore been made with the Ministry of Finance to get the reserve position in order, because, of course, they must remain within the range of their reserve. So the minister shouldn't be yelling that there's 600 million in it. That's not true. So now let him just get in that letter with numbers!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u198	I suggest that this is part of the letter that the Minister will send to the Chamber after Princess Day.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u199	Mrs Berndsen reads very well from her own work.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u200	No, from the police!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u201	Yeah, from our work, from the annual report of the National Police. The figures initially mentioned by Mrs Berndsen-Jansen were correct. Then she came to 600 million. That's not true. The suggestion that it would be very strange for you to borrow money from Finance is not correct, by the way. It's all true. I am not denying anything Mrs Berndsen reads here either. This is from the annual report of the National Police. But the suggestions she makes and the conclusions she draws from them are quite different. That's why I think it's very good that I'm sending a letter to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u202	That is why we look forward to the promised letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u203	It's getting more and more confusing. First, the 230 million would come from the national reserve. Then it came from 3,000 people who had left in one go, while in the first instance that was already taken into account. Then I think: there was no 230 million then, and now that amount is suddenly there. I actually want one of those treasure chests, which suddenly "230 million, poof!" Says. But I would very much like to know from this Minister to what extent this is to be borne by the agents. It still comes from its own budget. That means that agents simply have to pay the price again for a reorganisation plan, for the policies that have failed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u204	It is always difficult to answer Mrs Kooiman's questions, because there are usually several at the same time. Has policy failed? No. But is a recalibrate necessary? Yes. Then Mrs Kooiman says: will you send a letter to explain it clearly to me again? I just promised you that. I will. I will not go into that again, because it will not be easier in this way. Then Mrs Kooiman says that this is a budget where 'poof' money comes out. No, but that is usually the case with the SP budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u205	And then there's another question: is it at the expense of the cops? You could answer that question now. For the rest, I suggest we wait for the letter you promised.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u206	Then I repeat what I have just said. The simple fact is that in this way we cover the reorganisation costs necessary to do justice to the interests of the employees. They are, in themselves, an additional risk to the future, because they do not increase the own funds that you cannot supplement because you cannot add those additional resources that have been released. In that sense, in future it could be at the expense of spending that you would otherwise have liked to do. Do you want the capacity to go down? The answer is, of course, 'no'. That's what I've said before. It's not at the expense of the capacity of police officers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u207	Of course, the capacity was already falling. That was a choice of this cabinet. If the Minister had actually read the counter-budgets of the SP, then not only last year, but also the year before and the year before, agents would have been added earlier. It is also a choice of the VVD and this cabinet not to listen to it. Anyway, I heard the minister right. I'll wait for that letter with interest. If the prophecy is that this is indeed a cash slide to the future, and therefore an extra burden for the agents, then I am not too cheerful.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u208	I do not hear a question in this, so Mrs Tellegen has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u209	For the record, we await the letter. In the run-up to this debate and the week in which we were allowed to receive this minister's re-examination note, there was a lot of noise: 230 million is added, it is going to cost more and it will take more time. That's at the expense of security. Do I understand very well from the Minister that this does not depend on capacity or material? We hear it all the time: this is at the expense of safety. I would like to know from the Minister so that we can get that story out of the air.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u210	Clear question, short answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u211	The letter will make it clear that the answer to Mrs Tellegen's question is 'yes': it does not affect capacity and it does not affect safety.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u212	I would just like to stress that the questions put by the Chamber on this matter are very understandable and very logical. The letter does not show where the amount of 230 million comes from. The Minister has said in the media that it comes from own funds. If you then find out how big the equity is, you will see that it is 192 million in the next year's budget and the next year's budget. Then we really have a problem. We are very shy about a very sound basis. We have received the letter, but precisely because we have established that information is so crucial and that the Chamber should be included, I think this is an extremely important point. So I would like to emphasise that very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u213	I fully endorse that. I also note that the timing of this debate on that point is, frankly, slightly unfortunate. If the budget of the National Police had already been presented, we could have had this discussion much simpler. I wouldn't have to send a separate letter after Princess Day. But I like to do that because I can tell that there's a need. I get that one, too. That doesn't change the point of departure. At the end of the day, windfalls that I can now use for this would of course have been added to own funds. That's it. That's it. That's it. That's it. That's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u214	The announcement by the Minister in the media that this is coming from the National Police's own reserve has at least been an unfortunate explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u215	You can argue about that, but in the end that's what it comes down to. The alternative is to say I'm cutting back on the cops or the equipment. Neither one of these is on the table. The gaps are covered, among other things, by windfalls, which could otherwise have been added to the own funds of the National Police, because they would have exceeded the budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u216	In any case, the budget and the agreed further explanations will provide clear clarification on this matter. The Minister continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u217	I still have a few questions in the general block. Then I'll move on to the other topics. Mrs. Kooiman has asked if more money goes to leadership training than to training for ordinary agents. The answer to that is no. In addition to the budget I make available for training, the police also pay for so-called contract education. Of this contract education, the share of leadership training in recent years was between 10% and 14%. The rest is therefore all for the training of what Mrs Kooiman calls "the ordinary agents." Isn't there too much cutting back on the police academy and with that on education? That was a question from Mrs Kooiman and Mrs Berndsen. My predecessor has already informed you on several occasions about the cuts in the Police College. There have been no new cuts. These cuts are accompanied by responsible measures, which reduce costs. Of course, with the ambitions we have set out, the training budget is now being tested by me and by the Chief Constable against the wishes we have with regard to knowledge, skills and quality. We can discuss this further in the budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u218	I still have a short question. We held a hearing on the housing of the police academy in the National Police. The director of the Police College said that the Police College would have to be transferred to the National Police very quickly in order to make savings. This includes, for example, support services that can be taken from the National Police. Now this is being put on the longer track. That makes sense, I can imagine. But it does mean that the cuts can't be made by the police academy. Then how will the Minister provide for that? Maybe he can take that into account in the letter, or at least give it a little more emphasis in the budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u219	As far as that is not clear from the budget, I will include it in an accompanying letter which I will send with the budget. Then I reassured Mrs Berndsen on that point. I also think that it is a very vulnerable point to hire outsiders. This is also apparent from the letter from the unions. I think we agree that the hiring of externals at this stage of the reorganisation is inevitable. Think, for example, of the complex ICT requirements. The necessary knowledge and skills in this area are not available within the police. Once the reorganisation is over, that knowledge and skills are no longer needed. In addition, it is necessary to replace staff from time to time which cannot be replaced by the existing organisation. I have already said that the central works council has also requested that the new restructuring budget explicitly include external hiring. They also recognize that this knowledge and skill is needed to make the restructuring at the rate we are planning a success. As a result of the recalibratement, the external hire will last longer than previously planned. The reality is that the hiring of externals will be higher than originally budgeted. It is said that it would amount to hundreds of millions. Fortunately, that is not the case. Let me give an example from the old budget: EUR 108 million was budgeted for 2015. That will eventually become more. That is why 46 million in this area has been added to the restructuring budget for the hiring of external partners. Two comments were made on this subject in the review note. Firstly, we have noted that, when externals are hired, it is intended that it is also part of their task to transfer knowledge to the people who simply work in the police. A lot of organizations hire externals, they come in, they do their jobs and then they leave, without anyone learning anything from them. I have explicitly agreed with the corps leadership that the external hire is used to increase knowledge and skills within one's own organization. Secondly, it has been agreed that the external hire will of course be reduced as soon as possible. That is, by the way, also the agreement we have in general within the government. I note that the hiring of externals is well within the 10% standard that applies to the government. Of course, I will inform the Chamber about the implementation of the annual report and the annual accounts.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u220	It may be within the norm, but I still think it's a huge amount. If I add it up that fast, it'll go up to around 150 million. I myself come from the area of justice, where we had to look critically at how we do it with training. In-house training courses are organized there, for example. You look at what's in the house and then you put people together to transfer knowledge in your own home. Can the Minister promise that there will really be a very critical look at the hiring of externals? From a distance it seems as if it is one big party ofzzp'ers who are hired by the police.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u221	I don't recognize that image. I've been walking around the police organization a lot over the last few months. It is clear that the letter from the unions also pays attention to this. Mr Recourt can rest assured that the unions will continue to do the same. What I think is important is that we have to establish that hiring takes place wherever it is necessary and that then it is also the case that we learn from it. Many third parties who are hired have knowledge and skills that the organization no longer needs. Then you don't have to learn that either. However, if you hire someone, because you don't have certain knowledge and skills yourself, you have to make sure you learn that knowledge and skills. I think this is what Mr Recourt means.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u222	We don't discuss usefulness and necessity. Of course, it would be crazy if things were different. I myself have an example from my own work history. Someone who just worked at the organization resigned, and then got hired as an external expert. I really hope that the Minister will discuss these matters with the police and that a very critical assessment will be made of the actual situation. If you're gonna have to find what we can cut into, I think this is the most appropriate game.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u223	In general, I agree with Mr Recourt. Mr Recourt will not blame me for not having such detailed discussions with employees myself. It is agreed with the corps leadership that this is also stated in the re-examination note "that the hiring will fall as soon as possible." Given that the reorganisation takes longer, you also need longer hire. I note that the national standard is 10%. That would be around EUR 300 million in this case. Only half of that has been spent. Nevertheless, I agree with Mr Recourt that 150 million is a lot of money.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u224	There's been discontent with the external hiring. The unions say that they do not have sufficient insight into their size. The Minister has now given an insight into this. Is it not advisable to inform us each year of the development of the size of the external hire? Then we can see whether progress is being made and whether the police volunteers can be used in a different way. At least that would help us.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u225	It is not only advisable but also required by law. We do this in the annual report and in the annual accounts.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u226	Then I do not quite understand where the criticism of the unions comes from. Are the unions not reading the annual report correctly? They say they have insufficient vision of the size. That's a serious problem, especially if there's a lot of discontent. Transparency and clear communication, including towards the unions, can help.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u227	Without wanting to be faint, I call two observations. I don't always understand the unions. The central works council itself asks for extra hire. The people in the organisation say: make sure that there is enough extra hire to deliver the necessary quality. That request has been granted. I think the unions mean "but I don't know, I don't understand this point either" that they don't know exactly where the external hire takes place in the organisation. I cannot provide that information because, of course, there is a generic report on the total amount of third-party hire, as it should be in the annual accounts and the annual report. Mrs Kooiman asked about my predecessor's promise that the costs of reorganisation would be for the ministry. I would point out to her that an initial estimate of EUR 230 million was made. The original agreement was that of these 130 million would be for the Empire and 100 million would be financed from the assets of the former corps. That was the deal and so it was different than Mrs. Kooiman suggested. Mr Segers asked how I will shape the study on the relationship between the budget for equipment and that for staff. This study was announced in the review letter. For this research, I will instruct a party with the necessary expertise. The results will be presented in such a way that I can incorporate them into the 2017 budget. In this connection, Mr Segers also referred to the General Court. I will respond to that if necessary. I would like to point out that the General Court cannot be given a mandate from the government. As Mr Segers undoubtedly knows, the General Court is a High College of State and does not fit the government to give its orders. All I can do is make a request. The budget for the reorganization budget of 230 million is part of the budget, as I have already said. I'll pass on the request. I come to the loose subjects. I have already answered Mrs Kooiman's question about the collective agreement in detail, especially by inviting the unions to come to the table quickly. Many members have asked questions about neighborhood agents. We discussed this at length during the general consultation on the National Police. We have also discussed this extensively during the national police force. Then I answered the exact same questions. Since I think it is appropriate to answer the questions raised by the Chamber in the broadest sense, I shall repeat the answers. It is a fact that the standard we have agreed on is not yet being met. I would have liked to say something else, but this is reality. We are a long way from being upset, as I said last time. In three units, Zeeland-West-Brabant, North Holland and East is fully recruited. In other units there is a flow. This process is continuing. Nationally, we are at 96% and that is different from the suggestion of some Members that there are no district agents at all and that there are shortages everywhere. That is factually incorrect. A number of units do not yet reach the standard, as I said last time. As I said earlier, some of the vacancies are reserved for relocation candidates. So we will not make the 100%, not even before 1 January. The inspection indicates that the team chiefs should mainly manage and manage this and that these are not supported in all cases by operational experts and district agents. That's right. Of course, we're working on that. It depends on the reorganisation as it is currently taking place, mainly on the reorganization of staff. If we continue along this path, the district policeman, as intended, can increasingly play the role of director and the team chiefs are relieved, as the inspection rightly notes. I would also like to point out once again that the division of district agents and other agents within the units is left to the local authority. Nevertheless, I will continue to report on this, knowing how important it is for the Chamber to consider it to be a fair appointment. Mr Oskam asked what my reaction was to the report of the General Court. The Court of Auditors has praised the National Police on a number of points, but it has also expressed two criticisms. The police have good insight into the housing book, but insufficient insight into the financial value of the housing. Insight into that value is now obtained by adjusting the WMD value to the market value. That should solve the problem. Next, the Court notes that the police do not have sufficient expertise to dispose of buildings in a sensible way, especially with regard to the value of those premises and the way in which you do so. This expertise is brought in, among other things by seeking cooperation with the Rijksvaastgoedbedrijf. I have therefore responded to the criticisms of the General Court.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u228	It was a difficult question, but it was also a difficult discussion with the Court of Auditors. The report was tricky, too. There's just a lack of clarity. The Court of Auditors does not know either. Let's say we're gonna have a setback on housing because we're gonna want to dispose of buildings. Those buildings need to be rebuilt. A lot of police stations look really nice, but most of them look exhausted. If you want to reject them, you have to fix them up first. We are really afraid, as a chamber, that there will be some very ugly setbacks in the near future. That's why I want to talk about this anyway. The Minister has said that there is cooperation with the National Real Estate Company. That is what the Court of Auditors said. My question is: where are these setbacks going to be: at the police, at the minister's office or at the other minister's office?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u229	I fully understand the concern expressed by Mr Oskam. It is good to give the Minister all the issues related to the National Police at the next opportunity. We are now discussing the re-evaluation of the National Police. That is a subject that I think is complicated enough to talk about an entire evening. It turns out we're on our way. The question is whether I should now turn to a report which is not part of this debate. I would very much like to have the debate with Mr Oskam, but perhaps it is good to do so if the subject is actually on the agenda. Then I'll be even better prepared for that. I have now only indicated the two points of criticism and how they have been taken up by the National Police. Mrs. Tellegen asked about foundation de Basis. I've been there recently. I made a speech there, in which I praised her. The Base has gained experience with PTSS victims for Defense and is now involved by the National Police in the same service to police officers who have unfortunately been dealt with by PTSS. I myself know, from a personal observation, that the Chief Constable has personally committed himself to this collaboration with the Base. In my view, it is essential that we exchange knowledge between the different sectors in terms of PTSD. It can and should no longer be the case, as I have said in the Chamber earlier, that, as has happened in the past, when an agent reports with psychological problems due to the work, the answer is: if you can't stand it, you should have become a hairdresser. That is what I said in my speech at the base, because one of the agents literally told me. By the way, that was the same agent who developed the PTSD rendition training. That's what he did with people from the police academy. That training is now being rolled out for very large groups. I think it is incredibly important that this also happens within the police. It is, of course, excellent that different security sectors seek each other out on this point to exchange knowledge and skills. Moreover, this exchange could cover a much wider area than just PTSS aspects. The whole dossier on safe and healthy working, which we have raised and which is one of the pillars of the review note, is therefore very important. As far as I'm concerned, there are several ways for the National Police to deal with employees with PTSD. The basis is a private organisation, but it must be absolutely involved in one of those ways. I think it is very important that knowledge and skills are taken into account. I already told you. Mrs Tellegen mentioned the use of force by the police. What's the position of a police officer if he's used force? Is he directly a suspect in, say, manslaughter or murder? That is an essential point and I am very pleased that Mrs Tellegen has brought that point to my attention not only today, but also earlier. I will send a letter to the Chamber before the debate on the budget in which I will inform her about the state of play in this area and the proposals I intend to draw up, also in the light of the comments already made by Mrs Tellegen. My intention is to improve the legal position of police officers who have used violence in a structural manner, taking all aspects into account. Furthermore, I can assure the Chamber that, also in the light of my personal experience with the instruction of violence and its application, it is my intention to see the instruction of violence itself. I took the exam and I admit that was not a success, because I failed that test on the application of the violence instruction. It is my intention to see whether this can not be much simpler and whether the violence instruction can be updated. This will be done, among other things, following a number of recent judgments. Mrs Tellegen also asked what I am going to do to reduce internal rules and administrative burdens. I can reassure her in some way, because at the moment it is expected that a 5,000 fte's impact on effectiveness has been made. So they are no longer necessary because there has been a gross but sensible intervention in administrative burdens and internal rules. There are execution tests in all the laws and regulations that we intend to do. The quality system in the police department is designed so as to prevent regulatory pressure. Nevertheless, like Mrs Tellegen and other members of the Chamber, I know that there are still complaints within the police organisation about bureaucracy and about forms to be filled out. One of the comments in the review note is that there is a need to say goodbye to it. This will certainly apply to the police chiefs from the 2017 budget, as this increased policy freedom of the police chiefs will then be included in the budget. Mrs Tellegen has also asked if I can see opportunities for closer cooperation with boas, for example. That is a subject that the VVD Group has been raising for some time and I think it is right to do so. The co-operation between the police and boas is, in fact, thanks to the pressure exerted by the VVD Group. The boas operate under the direction of the police on the street and are also effectively sent to information, without compromising the different responsibilities and differences in the job concepts. Further cooperation will be effectively investigated, for example with regard to arresters and declarations relating to issues of concern only to insurers. In addition, cooperation with the municipalities is being investigated with regard to the passports. This process therefore continues, ensuring that cooperation between boas on the one hand and the police on the other is further improved. Mr Segers mentioned police volunteers. I made an explicit point of this in the review note because I know that I have disappointed Mr Segers on that point. I realize that. I believe that police volunteers make an essential contribution to the police organisation. There is no doubt about that. Mr Oskam has already drawn attention to this on a number of occasions. The National Organisation of Police Volunteers (LOPV) has shown that it is important work. In addition, it is also incredibly enjoyable work and gives people the opportunity to contribute to safety in society in many different ways. Police volunteers do this with great enthusiasm and good luck. I agree with Mr Oskam and Mr Segers that there are absolute opportunities to carry out police tasks even better with the help of volunteers. Everyone knows that police volunteers are involved in alcohol controls and major events and that they are doing exceptionally good work there. At the same time, I raised the question of how to reduce the tasks of the police organisation in a responsible manner. The only way to do that is to make choices. That is the choice I made with regard to the volunteers, because first of all I have to choose to invest in the employees who are already there. I give absolute priority to the reorganization of staff. The second point is that there are many police volunteers who are currently not fully supported. The second priority is to support the existing volunteers. These people deserve the here is a bit of discontent about being invested in them. Thirdly, I choose not to use training capacity for volunteers, but primarily for detectives, given the tasks that are expected in the future of detectives. Finally, I choose to use recruitment capacity for district agents, as I explained earlier, but also for cyber, economic and financial detectives. Volunteers are important, but given this priority ladder they only come after. The present volunteers are therefore invested, but new volunteers, in order to reach the 5,000 volunteers my predecessor mentioned, will only be recruited at the end of the journey of the reorganisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u230	At the moment, actions by police volunteers are threatening. The chairman of the volunteer organisation says the volunteers are gonna run away. If the minister wants to invest in the existing volunteers, he must be very quick because they are already at the exit. The Minister has just made a generous and said that his door is open and that people can walk in. It would be a good thing if the Minister were to actively look them up and at least work to preserve the volunteers that are here today. They are now threatening to take action and run away.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u231	I have to be careful not to put too much responsibility on my shoulders. The volunteers are part of the police organization. It's primarily up to the force to talk to them. The LOPV knows where to find me, as has already been shown. I would like to talk to the corps leadership to see how we are going to shape the investment in existing volunteers, without compromising the ladder of responsibilities. There are tens of thousands of people who currently do not know what they are up to, who are part of the police organisation, who have no other job or activity. I'm prioritizing these people. The volunteers really come after, no matter how sorry I am.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u232	I do not agree with that choice, but it happens in politics. During the national meeting of the national organisation, I spoke to volunteers with great frustration and said that they are not being listened to and that they do not feel taken seriously. In any case, I would like to urge the Minister to involve these volunteers, either through the corps leadership or directly. I would not like to see the collective bargaining conflict, which is already so out of hand, spread to police volunteers who do not want to commit themselves to a safe society.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u233	I share that point of view. I see the Chief Constable nodding. I hope that's what he's doing for this, and I share that thought. I'll share it with the chief of police and the department. I'm saying I'm not waiting for any more action. I have two more questions. Mr Recourt asked about diversity. I have spoken quite extensively about this in the National Police Office with a colleague of Mr Recourt, Mr Marcouch. The Chief Constable himself, following a number of incidents, has put diversity policy once again high on the agenda. After all, an organisation such as the National Police which is not or tries to be a reflection of society cannot function. A lot of new staff will be recruited, as I have already said. That's the chance the Chief Constable takes to form a more diverse corps. This ambition has also been expressed and is actively directed towards it. At the same time, I say that this can never mean that diversity is about quality. It has to go hand in hand. I also say that there is now an approved motion from the Chamber on the language test, both in advance and at the end. He's making his demands, of course. I fully agree, part of the quality is communicating in the Dutch language. Finally, Mr Segers' question. He asked what the police department is doing to improve duty schedules. When recruiting employees there is a balance between job supply and workload. The business interest comes here together with the personnel interest. There has been a number of violations of the Working Time Act. I think that is what Mr Segers was referring to. The Chief Constable will steer sharply on this subject, which is also stated in the Review Note..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... At the same time, I note that I cannot rule out the possibility that infringements of the Working Time Act will continue to occur in the future. So I'm not saying there's a guarantee that they'll never show up again. That possibility still exists, but needs to be substantially reduced. This brings me to the end of my first-term response.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u234	I would like to thank the govern ment for the answer. This brings us to the end of the government's first term. We will proceed immediately with the second term from the side of the Chamber. You all have half the first-term speaking time, including the tabling of motions. For most of you, this means that the sound goes away after three minutes. I call Mr Bontes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u235	Mr. Chairman. After Ivo Opstelten this minister will also bite his teeth on this drawing table fiasco. He raises a smokescreen above the restructuring budget and for unclear reasons he continues to trust the current corps leadership. The orchestra on the aft deck of the Titanic continues to play cheerfully. I'll file the following motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the reorganisation of the police has been seriously delayed and is twice as expensive;]] [[Whereas the current corps leadership is responsible for this and should not be regarded as able to facilitate this process;]] [[calls on the government to say goodbye to the current corps leadership,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the reorganisation of the police has been seriously delayed and is twice as expensive;]] [[Whereas the extension of the reorganisation will again seriously impede the functioning of the police;]] [[calls on the government to continue the reorganisation of the National Police only on three quick wins, namely ICT, procurement and work processes,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bontes. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29628-562]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bontes. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29628-563]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u236	Mr. Chairman. There are so many broken promises and there is so little time. So I'm just gonna read the motions to save as much as I can. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Government intends to close half of the police posts;]] [[Considering that, according to a survey conducted by the National Police Union, 80% of the officers believe that closing the police stations will make police officers less visible in the neighbourhoods and expects more than half of them to increase crime;]] [[calls on the government to abandon the plan to close half the police stations,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the review plan does not contain a risk paragraph;]] [[invites the Government to include a risk paragraph in the review plan,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas agents require more training and training so that they can perform their work properly and safely;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that agents are more trained and able to attend more professional education,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Kooiman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29628-564]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kooiman, Mr Berndsen-Jansen, Mr Segers and Mr Oskam. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29628-565]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kooiman, Mr Berndsen-Jansen and Mr Segers. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29628-566]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u237	Luckily, I have time left. I note that the Minister himself did not know where the finances came from either. He had to check that again, but he does indicate that the risk unfortunately ends up in the workplace. I will have to wait for that letter, but we are certainly going to talk about this. Finally, I come to the collective agreements. I think it's really scandalous how the Minister puts away all those hard-working people. I'd like to have said that here today. The Minister says they are welcome at the table, but he forgets to mention that he himself comes empty-handed and that he has nothing to offer them. The Minister received a pinocchio from the police officers on his visit to the Police Academy last Monday for a reason. I also strongly advise him to go to the House of Representatives a little earlier this Wednesday, because the Malieveld will be full. I think it would be a good thing and would be a little more realistic if the minister talked to all those staff.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u238	Mr. Chairman. I hope I can make it within the three minutes I have, because I have a wide-ranging motion. Just reading all the names under the motion takes three minutes. So I'll do my best. I'd like to go over the police housing plan. I do feel for the Minister's suggestion that we discuss this on a separate occasion. On October 1st we have an AO. I would like to make it quite clear that at the procedural meeting on 23 September, I will make a move to discuss this well prepared with everyone on 1 October, even if we do not want to face unpleasant costs in the future. I come to the quality of the detectives. I understand that the Minister, including in the media, has said that it is important to strengthen the quality of detectives. I know that Mrs Berndsen and Mrs Kooiman have another motion on the quality of detectives in the pipeline. That motion has been held. I understand that Mrs Berndsen is about to say something about this. I have now co-signed that motion. I'll get to the neighborhood cops. It's always been magical with numbers. The Minister says that 96% of the cases in the Netherlands are successful, but there are just regions where there are a lot of vacancies and where the lack of district agents reaches 20%. We've been working on it for a long time. The Minister always remains a gentleman and always says he's going to explain it again, but it seems a bit of a favor. It's just annoying that we have to ask about that every time. It really needs to be taken care of now. The last minister promised. The chief of police has whispered to the minister: 1 July 2015 it has been paged. It still hasn't been paged. We would like to give the Minister the opportunity until 1 January 2016. It's really not 100%, but we just don't want to get any more complaints from mayors who say "yes, but we don't have anyone." [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the district agent is an important link in increasing security in the neighbourhood and in the neighbourhood, is a very important pawn in the information position of the police, is of great importance in the context of strengthening trust in the police and indispensable for contact between citizens and police, especially given the fact that many police stations are closed;]] [[noting that the statutory standard for the number of district agents of 1 out of 5,000 citizens is still not being met;]] [[also noted that at present district agents are being used too often for other tasks;]] [[calls on the Government to take measures to ensure that the number of district agents carrying out district agents' duties as of 1 January 2016 complies with the legal standard and inform the Chamber thereof before the budget is discussed,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Oskam, Mr Kooiman, Mr Segers, Mr Berndsen-Jansen, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Tellegen, Mr Helder, Mr Bontes and Mr Recourt.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29628-567]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u239	Time was running out, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u240	You have 23 seconds left.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u241	Yeah, I'll keep an eye on it. I have another motion on the closure of police stations. There are still some concerns about this, even because the Court of Auditors has said that it is not clear to him which agencies they are. We really need to take a good look at the value of the desks. We'll talk about that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u242	I was going to read the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u243	Yeah, I'll make it. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government intends to close at least 200 police stations over the next 10 years;]] [[Whereas prior to decision on the closure of a police station, the consequences for services and driving times and the financial consequences should be made clear;]] [[calls on the Government to inform the Chamber by police station of the consequences of its planned closure,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Oskam, Mr Segers, Mr Kooiman and Mr Van der Staaij. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29628-568]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u244	Mr. Chairman. We have heard the Minister say in the first term that the formation of the National Police is necessary, that the implementation has not gone well, that there is a task for the corps leadership to restore confidence and that he will continue to monitor the execution because this is his job as minister. My group agrees with that, but that is the end of it. Because then there are a few faint remarks to be made to various colleagues and to mine. The Minister said that it goes too far for Mrs Helder to say that there are no agents. I can name a few more. Then I am only a member of an opposition party, a party whose colleague Mr Van der Steur said he would decimate that party. Well, we're on 24 seats in the polls by now. They're just polls, but I have to say it anyway; also a you-bake. How are you supposed to feel as a cop when you look at this and get the confidence out of this that it's gonna be okay? I would dare to put my hand into the fire that the Minister made a very bad turn there. My group went into the debate with a little bit of confidence, but I must say that this has suffered a serious dent. I'll just give the Minister a quote from John van den Heuvel. More beautiful than he wrote it, I cannot say: "The National Police are a patient whose organs are in danger of falling out." He also said: "If the current police summit is unable to reverse the tide, it must be replaced. But the most important thing is that the ordinary hardworking agent on the street should regain trust, respect and appreciation." I cannot say it more beautifully, so I wholeheartedly support that. The Minister has a very difficult task. My group will follow this with a great deal of scepticism. I hope that this minister will improve his life and that he will invite the unions and won't brusque them by saying that my door is open, but I have little to offer them. The Minister did not say that he has nothing to offer them, but that he has little to offer them. But where there's a will, there's a way. I would like to say to the Minister: scratch behind your ears and get to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u245	I call Mrs Berndsen-Jansen of the D66 Group, also for three minutes, including the tabling of motions for resolutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u246	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his first reply. I would like to reiterate a few promises which the Minister should honour with regard to D66. The National Police will receive an additional 105 million per year. That makes more blue on the street and more capacity for detection possible. The money that has been promised since 2018 is not likely to come. These resources are included subject to formal release. That sounds like someone else has to release that money, but that's really something only the cabinet can decide. Without this contribution, the police cannot pay their people or the Netherlands has to do it with fewer agents. My question to the Minister is: why does the cabinet make that reservation? Is that money coming or not? The formation of the National Police will lead to savings: 230 million structuralally. We are getting signals that these savings are not being made. We also read that these will actually be 500 million structural in the short term. Is the Minister prepared to reconsider the rate of savings and at least not to impose additional cuts on the National Police until the reorganisation is completed? I shall table the next motion for a resolution on this matter. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there are concerns about the financial position of the National Police;]] [[Whereas the additional costs of reorganisation put additional pressure on the National Police budget;]] [[calls on the government to reconsider the rate of savings and at least not to impose additional cuts on the National Police until the reorganisation is completed,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Berndsen-Jansen, Mr Kooiman, Mr Segers and Mr Van der Staaij. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29628-569]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u247	D66 wants only two levels of administration for the police: national and local. We are not in favour of regional mayors because we want to get rid of the administrative pressure in the direction of the police. That is why an amendment has guaranteed the authority of mayors in the Police Act. Now I read in the Minister's letter that the authority is more closely involved in the important management decisions through the Article 19 consultation. Looks like we're back to square one; an unnecessary level of governance. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the "management follows authority" adagium is deemed to be equivalent to the involvement of the Article 19 consultation in the review note;]] [[Whereas it introduces (re-) an additional layer of administration;]] [[Whereas the authority rests with the mayor in his own municipality;]] [[considers that such administrative pressures are undesirable;]] [[calls on the Government not to extend Article 19 consultations as laid down in the review note,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Berndsen-Jansen and Mr Van der Staaij. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29628-570]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u248	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for his reply. He's showing himself to be obstinate. It is good to see how determined he is to bring this reorganisation to a realistic conclusion. I asked if this human reorganisation is a viable map. We will ask that again during the WHO. For the confidence and support of police people themselves, it is crucial that it really happens now. I have two comments on local customization and strengthening of Article 19. It is good that the motto is again: central what needs to be done, locally what can be done. I very much agree with the thrust of Mrs Berndsen's motion. I would like to hear what the Minister thinks about this, because my party is also opposed to an additional layer of administration. We will talk about the welfare of policemen in a separate AO, if I understood Mrs Kooiman correctly yesterday. I have two motions at the moment. One is about closer cooperation with the basis than is currently the case. The other is about better protection for the shooting agent, as I call it. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, because of their duties, agents are expected to put an end to threatening and dangerous situations and to take a step forward if others take a step back;]] [[Whereas in some cases there is in practice a lack of clarity as to when agents are allowed to use force and what consequences this may have for them;]] [[Whereas it is undesirable that, following an incident of violence resulting from their duties, agents should be considered as suspects of murder or manslaughter;]] [[calls on the Government, by means of legislative amendments, to establish a separate criminal offence and a separate justification for the special task of the police;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Tellegen and Mr Van der Staaij. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29628-571]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u249	This motion surprises me a little, because the Minister has already stated that he will do so at the opening of the academic year of the Police College. You could therefore expect the Minister to say that this motion is superfluous, because this policy will already be implemented.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u250	The Minister has outlined the outlines. I hope that it will indeed be the case that the agent who has exercised his duties will receive his own article within criminal law, and that he will not, as is currently the case, be dealt with within ordinary criminal law. This motion is an incentive to do so. The Minister is currently reviewing the system. I hope to give him a certain direction with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u251	In my view, the Minister has said that there is a separate justification. With that, he's already indicated he's gonna take care of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u252	Then I'd like to wait for the Minister's response. I have one other motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the approach to absenteeism and psychotrauma in the National Police is one of the priorities in the review;]] [[Considers that different organisations of the veterans' care system in this area have a great deal of knowledge and experience, in particular Defence, and can provide a short-term solution for the police;]] [[Whereas this can improve the effectiveness, quality and affordability of specialised care for both Defence and Police;]] [[calls on the Government, in the short term, to initiate intensive cooperation between police and defence in the field of combating absenteeism and psychotrauma, making use of the knowledge, structures and experience already in place at the Ministry of Defence and informing the Chamber about this before the end of this year,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Tellegen and Mr Recourt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29628-572]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u253	Mr. Chairman. I have a determination, a concern and a point of disagreement. The conclusion is that the Minister has promised that he will really take us with him in the follow-up to the re-examination plan. I would like to underline that. If that is taken up, then we will be informed immediately and clearly, even if it is unexpected and there are setbacks, so that we know where we stand. That's it. That's it. That's it. That's it. My concern is finance. The Minister says he can clarify this next week. The Court looks at the budget in general terms. I would like to look very specifically at the budget of the National Police, with the multiannual perspective. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the costs of reviewing the reorganisation of the National Police are borne by its own budget;]] [[calls on the Government to ask the General Court to investigate its impact on the long-term multiannual budget and financial stability of the National Police,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Segers, Mr Kooiman, Mr Oskam, Mr Berndsen-Jansen, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Helder, Mr Bontes and Mr Recourt.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29628-573]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u254	Indeed, this motion seems to me to be sufficiently supportive, Mr President. My final point concerns something that the Minister and I think differently about: the efforts to recruit more police volunteers. The Minister has already indicated that himself. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Minister puts the ambition to recruit more police volunteers in the refrigerator until 2017;]] [[Whereas it is important for police volunteers to have their own place in the new police organisation;]] [[calls on the Government to address the recruitment and selection of police volunteers and to maintain the 2016 target,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Segers, Mr Oskam and Mr Van der Staaij. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29628-574]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u255	Mr. Chairman. We talked today about the reorganisation that is not going well. A plan has rightly been drawn up. My group supports the basis of the plan. The plan has dealt with the issues that all stakeholders have been seeing for a long time. It is especially important that there is no longer a top-down approach, but that the basis is really looked at, in order to get the district agents, the district teams and the robust base teams in position. They must be supported. From there, we have to act. Practice will have to prove it. Trust is very important here. I have pointed this out several times in my first term. You can't send the ship in the right direction if your sailors aren't convinced of the right direction. I haven't heard a lot of words about that. I really hope that the Minister, and in line with the minister in charge of the corps, will make this very clear and possibly do something about it. I heard the Minister say eight or ten times that the unions are welcome. In my view, this tone does not help to make the unions feel that they are really needed to make not only the collective agreement but also the reorganisation a success. We're gonna talk about the finances. It sounds almost too good to be true, but we get a nice letter and we will look critically at it. If it's beautiful, we can, of course, support it. Finally, I have a motion on diversity. Without diversity, there is no quality. That is what my colleague Marcouch says very often and I repeat it to him. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that diversity in the police force is very important for the quality of police work;]] [[considers that, despite this, there are still insufficient visible results;]] [[Whereas the formation of the National Police in general and the re-evaluation in particular offer an opportunity to firmly focus on diversity;]] [[calls on the Government, the Chief Constable, to undertake a real commitment to strengthen in proportion the diversity and diversity awareness in all sections of the police force and to use both influx and retention of staff, with quality as a starting point,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Recourt and Mr Berndsen-Jansen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29628-575]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u256	This brings us to the end of the second term of office. The Minister has asked to pause for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u257	I give the Minister the opportunity to speak in the second term of the government, to answer a single question that was still put in the second term of the Chamber and to comment on the motions and to give them a pre-advisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u258	Mr. Chairman. First, I would like to express my appreciation for the Chamber. With all the spokesmen, who put it all a bit differently, I taste a great deal of involvement in the well-being of the National Police and in particular the individual police officers. There is no party here that has not had this debate on the basis of that feeling, that respect and that appreciation. I really appreciate that myself. The enormous energy I have put into this project over the last few months, as Mrs Helder rightly pointed out, has been put into it again and again thanks to the pride of the National Police and especially to the individual policemen and women who work day in, day out, early in the morning to late in the evening for the safety of our society, sometimes with bullets literally flying around their ears. They are in the middle of the searchlight of society. Many of their activities are weighed on a gold scale. If something doesn't go well, it's widely measured. It is actually unfair that all those things that go very well should not get the attention that would be just. I realise that very well, and precisely because I am so well aware of this, the choices that have been made have been made in the review note. The position of individual police officers is absolutely the first point of attention. I would almost say top priority, but I am not saying that as a result of the review note. The reorganisation of the workforce must be put in order. People need to know what they're up to. We must ensure that they are supported in terms of well-being and knowledge and skills. The corps leadership and I believe that this is an absolute priority, and that is not only our view, but also all the other parties involved in the re-evaluation of the National Police. Once again, I express the respect and appreciation that the National Police and all the individual people involved deserve. I really think that society can be very proud of the police, as I, as Minister of Security and Justice, am very proud to be able to bear that responsibility in the difficult constellation of a human reorganisation that does not bring what it should bring, and in the very difficult circumstance that there is no agreement yet on a collective agreement. I have just read that there seems to have been an agreement today, and I say it carefully about a collective agreement for all government officials on the basis of the wage agreement that exists. I have heard some members of the Chamber say that the bid that lies there is not enough, but the offer is there. It really is a 5.05% increase, which is ready for each individual police officer, and a one-off payment of €500. Contrary to what some Members would like to believe, there is also a willingness to make good agreements on all subjects of interest to individual agents. I am thinking, for example, of weekends, training and training hours; I shall come back to that later on when the motions are being discussed. I myself believe that our police officers deserve a fair and good collective agreement. That is what I want to do about it, but we will have to negotiate with each other for that. I come to the other two themes of the review note. People's knowledge and skills must be brought up to date. This is urgently needed and sufficient attention must be paid to it. There should also be room for local customisation. There is no need to change the law at all, because that has always been the starting point; Mrs Berndsen-Jansen has said this very nicely. The local customization should follow exactly what the starting point was. The final pillar of the review note is to raise the necessary future quality of the investigation, which the Public Prosecutor has also discussed with us a number of times, including in public. This means that I express the confidence that the right choices are made in the review note, as it stands. Members of the Chamber have rightly said that they need to see it for a while. That is right, because the track record, the history of the reorganisation of the National Police, shows that ambitions are not always fulfilled. I therefore believe that it is in keeping with the realism of this note that we agree that these agreements will be reached and that I will inform the Chamber immediately if that is not the case. I will. That is why Mr Segers asked, and I say that to him, as I have already done in the debate itself. Mrs Helder has said that she is following it with scepticism. It's okay. I admit that there is every reason for that. That is separate from the exchange we had about the phrase, which Mrs Helder said was faint. I admit it might have been a little nicer. But one thing is certain: I feel the hot breath, not only Mrs Helder's but also the other members' breath, in my neck. I also think that is appropriate. I'll do everything I can to make sure that breath stays at some distance from my neck. 'Cause if it stays there, I have every confidence in it. And I appreciate that, too. Let me see if I have missed another question that is not included in a motion. I can refer Mrs Tellegen's question to Mrs Berndsen-Jansen's motion on Article 19. I believe I've answered all the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u259	I asked another question about the 105 million and the 70 million still to be released.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u260	The answer will be given in the police budget. I do not have to say too much about this, because I have already said far too much about the budget which is not yet before us. However, I was granted a dispensation for this because of the importance of this debate. In the motion in part No. 562 by Mr Bontes, the government is invited to say goodbye to the current corps leadership. I have discussed this extensively with him. I have the confidence in the corps leadership, but I do note that the corps leadership must continue to earn that confidence in the follow-up. That means that I will follow the recalibrate very critically. So I must discourage this motion. In the motion in part No. Mr Bontes's 563 calls on the government to reduce the whole reorganisation of the National Police to three elements, and not to do all the other points on which, in the opinion of many, we are so successful. That is not only my opinion, but also that of the supervisors, of the Article 19 consultation and the Public Prosecutor's Office. All the parties involved really see the benefits of the National Police. That is why this motion is unwise. I have already said this to Mr Bontes in the debate. I will therefore have to strongly discourage the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u261	I am not saying that the National Police should be broken down, but I say that there should be focus on a number of spearheads, on a number of quick wins, and that part of the reorganisation should be left to the regional units. At that level, ex-Police Chiefs are in charge. They know things, too. If a chief of a regional unit thinks he can solve his problems in a certain way, he should call The Hague. Then he'll have to call headquarters. Then he has to ask, "Can I do it like this?" Then it is said: no, because Groningen is not yet ready; we have to wait, we have to draw one line.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u262	I am not going to deny you the right to come back to this, but I have the impression that this discussion has already taken place in the interruption with the ruler.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u263	That's not true. The minister is suggesting a little bit that I want to abort the National Police. No, I'm not saying that. Go on with the National Police! Take three quick wins, these are big pillars, and leave the rest to the regional level. Don't centralize everything. Decentralize!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u264	We talked about that. But the Minister may still want to respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u265	The starting point of the National Police is that management is centralised. This includes the other subjects. That is why Mr Bontes really wants to say goodbye to the thought behind the National Police. I don't agree with him and that's why I advise against the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u266	Then what does the Minister say about my statement that you can reorganise very well at local level? Why is the Minister waving it away like that? I don't understand it well, and he can't explain it very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u267	I believe that we have really had this discussion. Now we are in the process of repeating it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u268	Mr. Chairman. I follow your suggestion that the debate has been held on this point. Let me rephrase. I do not agree with Mr Bontes' analysis. That is why I do not come to any conclusion other than that I must discourage his motion. In her motion in part No. 564 asks Mrs Kooiman to abandon the government's plan to close half the police stations. We have discussed this extensively in general discussions about the National Police. I think there were even motions on this subject following that general consultation. We have not discussed this at all today, so I am somewhat surprised by this motion. I have explained in detail to the Chamber how very neat and correct and also always step by step that process is going to be looked at. I realise very well that there are concerns, not only with individual police officers, but also with the Chamber. That is also what I am saying in reply to Mr Oskam's questions of the time. We shall deal with this very carefully. This will be implemented in accordance with the previous commitment. For that reason, I advise against this motion. In the motion Kooiman c.s. in piece No. 565 the government is invited to include a risk paragraph in the re-examination plan. Now I have to look at Mrs. Kooiman. I have promised in the debate that there will be an implementation plan, which is part of the review plan itself. It's going to be an annex to that. There will be a risk section. He sees it on the recalibrate. To the letter of the motion, I do not comply with the motion, because the review plan itself is before us today. If, after today, it can count on the assent of the Chamber, it has been established. This means that I will not amend the review note myself. However, there will be a risk section in the implementation plan. If I comply with the motion, I shall leave the vote on the motion to the Chamber and consider it to support policy. If Mrs Kooiman says "no, I want it to come in this document," I must advise against the motion. I think it is important that the risk paragraph should be introduced, but not in this document anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u269	We just need to get that risk section in place, so I'm gonna change the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u270	You don't have to, as far as I'm concerned. If we now agree together that I will take care of the risk section in the implementation plan, the motion may, as far as I am concerned, be discussed in this form by the Chamber and my operative part is 'judgment Chamber'.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u271	For the Acts: Mrs Kooiman follows the interpretation of the ruler
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u272	Thank you, Mr President, and thank you to Mrs Kooiman. In the motion-Kooiman c.s. in piece No. 566 the government is asked to ensure that agents are more trained and able to attend more professional education. Apart from the linguistic challenge in the motion for a resolution, which is limited, I would like to point out that this motion is difficult in that the starting point of the review note is that'more and better work is being done on the knowledge and skills of individual police officers'. This sentence is literally from the review note. In that sense, the motion supports policy, but in a way it is really superfluous. It's literally in the review note. If the motion were not adopted, it would not affect my intention and the agreements I made with the corps leadership on this matter, namely that this is going to happen. The second point is: to what extent? How is this implemented? This is an issue that is explicitly decided in the negotiations on the collective agreement. I have made an offer to the unions in this respect, namely to increase training hours to a certain level. The National Police are currently above average training hours of similar countries around us. This is incidental and has to do with the introduction of the new firearm. I made an explicit proposal to the unions in my bid, in the invitation, to talk about the number of hours. The debate on the number of hours I am holding with the unions and not with this Chamber. If Mrs Kooiman supports the general intention with this motion, the motion is, in a sense, superfluous. Then I'll leave the verdict on the motion to your Chamber. However, if Mrs Kooiman is referring to something specific with the motion, it is an infringement of the collective agreement negotiations with the unions and I must advise against it. After all, I want to have that debate with the unions and not with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u273	I will make it a little easier, because the Minister is not debating with the unions today, but now with the Socialist Party and there is a motion from the Socialist Party and not from the unions. If this motion calls for more training, it doesn't mean that this only applies to detectives. It applies to all agents. If the Minister can support the motion if he can read it in this way, I will gladly submit it, because that would indeed be an improvement on the current situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u274	Let me look around the Chamber, as my predecessor did, to see whether this interpretation of the motion would also lead to good thoughts. I'm looking around. This interpretation of the motion is a fundamental change in relation to the operative part. On the basis of this interpretation, I must advise against the motion, because I will keep up what I wrote in the re-examination note, namely that we have a clear need for an improvement in the training of individual police officers and that I would like to have the debate on this with the police unions in the framework of collective bargaining. I therefore advise against this motion, given the interpretation given by Mrs Kooiman, but I agree with the starting point. I'm not suddenly opposed to education. In fact, that is one of the pillars of the review note and Mrs Kooiman does not have to worry about it either.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u275	Of course, it's important that not only detectives are trained, but all cops. That's why I'm holding this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u276	I'm sorry, you're holding the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u277	No, I'm maintaining the motion. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's late again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u278	I was just about to tell Mrs Kooiman that I thought it was a sensible idea to hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u279	I'll spare you that statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u280	I hope that there will be a collective agreement soon, especially now that there is an agreement for a large part of Dutch officials. I hope that Mrs Kooiman will soon be able to say: look, good and sensible agreements have been made on training for all staff. However, I still have to discourage the motion because it infringes the negotiations I am conducting on the collective agreement with the unions. Then I come to the motion on part No. 567 by Mr Oskam, in which he asks Chamberwide support for the request, to ensure that the number of district agents meets the legal standard as of 1 January 2016. I said in the debate that I cannot, may and will not be able to do so. I am not allowed to comply, because I have agreed with the co-determination and with the police unions that there will be room for the implementation of the relocation candidates after 1 January 2016. They should also be able to become district agents. Besides, it will never be 100%, because at the moment you measure someone will always be gone. In an organization with 10,000 people it is quickly a lot of individuals. If I can understand the motion in such a way that it is intended to be complied with, as of 1 January 2016, on the basis of the legal standard, given the agreements I have, then I have no problem with the motion and see it as a support for policy, a support for the agreements I made with the corps leadership. If Mr Oskam says: if it is 99.9%, then that is already a serious and serious problem of confidence for the Minister, then I must advise against the motion because it is factually incorrect.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u281	I have just said that, of course, we are not going to look at this 100%. The intention must be right. We have to do everything we can now. It really needs to be taken seriously right now so that we can get on with those neighborhood agents. Someone's gonna be sick someday and somebody's gonna appeal sometime. We must, however, ensure that there are sufficient police officers throughout the country in all regions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u282	I consider the motion a firm support in the back. Once again, it is a signal from the Chamber that the district agent has and deserves the special attention of the Chamber. If the motion is adopted, the order will be accepted. I'll leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber. In the motion in part No. 568 I am asked if I can inform the Chamber per police station of the consequences of a planned closure. I must say that it is impossible to comply with an information request at that level of detail. There are hundreds of police stations and police stations in the Netherlands. I'm not gonna put forward arguments by police station. There has been a very careful process with local authority. I have already said that I will monitor the development of services very closely. This agreement shall be valid for a period of 10 years. It is not the case that next year all the police stations in the Netherlands are suddenly closed down. I will simply report on the planned closure of police stations and the quality of service in regular unit reports. Both elements must be balanced. I'll take a look at Mr. Oskam before I give a judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u283	I tend to hold the motion until after the AO on the housing of the police. But this shouldn't be so hard, right? I don't want to burden the government with extra work. A decision is being made about the police station in Applescha. The mayor and the regional chief are involved. Surely it must be clear what consequences that has. It's a matter of gathering and giving to the Chamber. Then we know what is going on and then we can talk about it with the regions and the mayor. I really don't want to get the Minister's noses all over me. I am happy to wait two weeks until we can discuss the substance of the police's housing policy. Then we can always see whether we are going to put the motion to the vote or whether something else is needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u284	Is the motion being held now?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u285	That's up to Mr. Oskam. I would just like to say procedurally that we have discussed this extensively. It's about a period of ten years. The primary decision lies with the local triangle. I find it unwise for the Chamber to say that she is actually the local triangle. I think it is fine that the regional triangle should turn to Mr Oskam, if the local triangle does not come out and the National Police want to close that office in nine years' time. We shouldn't turn things around. The responsibility lies with the local triangle, as Mr Oskam rightly says. The suggestion is now being made that I will make a commitment on this point as a result of the housing plan. I won't. That's what I'm saying. It is up to Mr Oskam to decide what to do with his motion. If the motion is put to the vote, I'll advise her.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u286	The room isn't the local triangle, and I don't want to be it at all. We do get complaints from the local triangle about what's going on. We control this minister and so we simply want to know what is being agreed within the police budget, and that is part of it. It's fine to talk about that on October 1st. This aspect does have an impact. We're being questioned by our mayors. I just want to know what's going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u287	Does that mean you're holding the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u288	I'll keep her on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u289	At the request of Mr Oskam, I propose his motion (29628, No. 568). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u290	In her motion in part No. 569 asks Mrs Berndsen-Jansen two things: to reconsider the rate of savings and not to impose additional cuts on the National Police until the reorganisation is completed. This motion is, of course, part of the budgetary procedure. I would like to consider Mrs Berndsen-Jansen as the first to hold the motion. In the run-up to the debate, I have already stated that I have undertaken to monitor the rate of savings closely and to have it investigated, so that we can include the results of this study in the next budget. There is no ambition to impose additional cuts on the challenges already facing the National Police. In view of all this, I should like to make the suggestion that Mrs Berndsen-Jansen should continue her motion until after the debate on the budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u291	I am a little surprised, because the Member of Parliament, Mr Van der Steur, said that there could be no further cuts in safety. I thought: well, the Minister naturally embraces this motion, because I'm going to incorporate his views into it. I will continue the motion until the budget is discussed. I expect the Minister to give a positive opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u292	At the request of Mrs Berndsen-Jansen, I propose her motion (29628, No. 569). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u293	I repeat what I said earlier, namely that I believe that the Member of Parliament, Mr van der Steur, was well-known for his extremely sensible statements. Let us continue the debate on the budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u294	I would like to ask Minister Van der Steur's reaction to the motion on item No. 570.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u295	I do. In her motion in part No. 570 Mrs Berndsen-Jansen asked the government not to extend the Article 19 consultation, as laid down in the review note. I quote from the Police Act 2012, Article 19: "Our Minister shall consult with the regional mayors (...) and the President of the College of Attorneys General on the performance and management of the police." I therefore have to discuss the important management decisions with Article 19 on the basis of the law. The authority and I have concluded together that that legal provision was not sufficiently timely and not sufficiently implemented. We have therefore improved this, in accordance with the legal provision. There is no extra layer and certainly no return to the old situation, as I say to Mrs Berndsen-Jansen. Before I give my advice, I'll take a look at Mrs Berndsen-Jansen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u296	The Minister knows I've had trouble with that article in the Police Act, but I've taken that loss. I see now that there is almost an entire page in the review paper on how this Article 19 consultation should actually be dressed. It says: "The Article 19 consultation will be designed in such a way that the above is realised. To this end, the official portals for this Article 19 consultation shall be strengthened." I advise the Minister to take a look at the role of the corps managers in the old law. This was copied out of here. So I suggest to the Minister that this is an additional layer of administration, which creates the administrative pressure and that it is indeed the old corps management role.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u297	We have had this discussion before. Your response, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u298	I understand Mrs Berndsen-Jansen's concern, but the practice is really different. I'm consulting with the Article 19 meeting. I am very pleased that I am doing so, because it is a very good integrated way of conducting the consultation with the people who form the authority, as the law has laid down and intended. I guarantee Mrs Berndsen-Jansen that any movement that is being made within that consultation to return to the old situation has been and will continue to be smothered by me. Nevertheless, I must advise against this motion for all the reasons stated. I'm getting to the motion on part No. 571 by Mrs Tellegen calling for a separate criminal offence by means of legislative amendments and a separate justification for the special task of the police. Mrs Berndsen-Jansen pointed out that this motion is in line with my earlier statements. She expressed the expectation that I would say that the motion was superfluous. That is what I said earlier in the debate. Then I left the judgment to the Chamber. Contrary to what Mrs Berndsen-Jansen thinks, this is not, in my view, an unnecessary motion. This will be an issue which will be discussed in depth not only by science, but also by all kinds of other interested parties. The choice you make, whatever that is, is always controversial. I therefore consider a statement by the Chamber to be a support in this respect. If the Chamber is prepared to rule along the line that it wants a change of law, a separate criminal offence and a separate justification, I will seriously involve it in the implementation of my planning.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u299	I find this a curious justification. After all, if this is going to be a very wide-ranging subject of debate, will we not wait for that debate to take place here in the Chamber first? Then let's not prelude to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u300	Well, that's a choice. I myself believe that something really needs to be done on this point. The choice lies, for example, in whether or not to do so through disciplinary law. I am not in favour of that myself. I see more in what is now contained in this motion than in the idea of doing so through disciplinary law. If the Chamber would like to rule on this now, I leave it to the Chamber. It is not for me to give a judgment on this. I would at least see what is proposed in the motion as supporting my policy intentions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u301	This is a curious order. The minister's coming up with a legislative change. We will then discuss this in detail in the Chamber. We are not going to adopt a motion in which the content of the Minister's law is already appointed? Moreover, I asked written questions on this matter a few weeks ago, and I am now hearing that other Members have also asked questions about this. Then it is neat to wait for those answers first and then to discuss in the Chamber the content of the law and the way in which we want to deal with these wishes. This is how I think the case is really turned upside down.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u302	It is up to the Chamber to decide. I say that the content of the motion before us is in line with my thinking and that I consider the motion to support policy. I am not going to say anything about whether Mrs Berndsen-Jansen agrees. It is up to the Chamber to judge this. I'm not going over whether the Chamber is in favour of or against a motion. The verdict contained in this motion is in line with what I believe would be the right route. If the Chamber thinks otherwise, it must say so. That's up to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u303	I agree with what Mrs Berndsen said on this point, because I do not think that this is the usual way of doing things. Even if Mrs Tellegen maintains the motion, I do not think it is the usual way. The motion already states that there must be a separate criminal offence and a separate justification. The question of what is most desirable for the police remains to be discussed by the Chamber. It could be something else. This is something that requires extensive thought formation. You can't just write that down in a motion, whether or not you're arrested? Surely you cannot just write it down: at least there must be a separate criminal offence and a separate justification? That is what my group would like to see done. If this were put to the vote, we would have to abstain. I am not going to stick to a statement when my group has not been informed because we have not had a debate on this in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u304	No question has been put to me by Mrs Helder, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u305	No, but you will have the opportunity to respond to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u306	I don't need that. I'll leave this whole thing to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u307	That's clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u308	I note that my motion leads to the necessary fuss. Maybe that's right. I did not want to do anything but make this point, following the Minister's answers to the questions I raised on this subject. In fact, I think it is important to indicate, in the run-up to the revision of the system, what the VVD is about. However, I also follow the reasoning of some of my colleagues. That's why I want to hold my motion. I have to think about when I will arrest her, because we are going to talk about this in an AO about the police, or perhaps even in a separate debate on the revision of the system. I shall, however, take this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u309	At the request of Mrs Tellegen, I propose her motion (29628, No. 571 to be retained. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u310	Now that the motion has been apprehended, I will refrain from interrupting, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u311	Good. The Minister will proceed with the next motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u312	Yes. I'll come to the motion in part No. 572, which calls on the government to initiate, in the short term, intensive cooperation between the police and the defence sector in the fight against absenteeism and psychotrauma, making use of the knowledge, structures and experience already existing in the defence sector, and to inform the Chamber before the end of this year. This motion was tabled by Mr Tellegen and Mr Recourt. This motion goes beyond what I've promised, but nevertheless, I can live with it. I shall therefore leave this motion to the House. In the next motion, in part No. 573 tabled by Mr Segers and signed by a larger number of members, the government is invited to ask the General Court to investigate the long-term impact on the multiannual budget and financial stability of the National Police. That is a bit difficult in general terms, but I think we will come to terms with it. I have already said that an investigation will be carried out. This will not be done by the General Court. Mr Segers asked me whether I would like to ask the General Court specifically about the restructuring budget. That's not in here. I ask Mr Segers whether he means this motion as I promised it, namely that I will kindly ask the General Court to look at the restructuring budget and that I will inform the Chamber about the wide-ranging investigation that I have made into the cuts in the National Police, which I have also spoken to Mrs Berndsen-Jansen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u313	Can Mr Segers agree with this interpretation?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u314	I can live with it, because the desire arises from the broad desire to have more insight. I am also going to look to the right, because we are going to talk about it bilaterally. I cannot speak for Mr Berndsen-Jansen. I await further information as to whether the Court of Auditors sees fit to deal with this issue and to take it up. As far as I am concerned, this would be very desirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u315	I ask the Minister to have a broader investigation into all the cuts that are still coming towards the police. I have already mentioned a large number of amounts. I think it would be wise for the General Court to look at that as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u316	These amounts are also reflected in the further letter which the Minister will send after the budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u317	Yeah, but that's the explanation. In response to this request by Mr Segers, I think it is right that we should look more broadly at the cuts in the police force.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u318	That's exactly what I promised. I'll repeat it. I promised to send a letter to the Chamber after Princess Day on the financing of the additional restructuring budget. That is the explanation that Mrs Berndsen-Jansen spoke about. I was right to say that. I have also promised that in all the areas I have mentioned, ICT, personnel, equipment, the whole line, I will have an investigation conducted by an investigative office, not by the General Court, into the planned cuts in the National Police with the aim of taking them with me, after discussion in the Chamber, in the 2017 budget. I made this commitment not as a result of the debate, but as a result of a policy initiative by myself. Mr Segers then asked me to ask the General Court, which is already looking at the responsibility of my entire department, to look specifically at the restructuring budget. I have said that I can only ask the General Court of Auditors nicely, because the General Court as a High College of State deals with its own task. I guarantee the research that Mrs Berndsen-Jansen means, because I want to know for myself and therefore order it, and at the same time I will make a request to the General Court of Auditors. If these three elements cover this motion, I'll leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u319	For the sake of the Acts, I see Mr Segers and Mrs Berndsen-Jansen nodding. So this was a correct interpretation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-12.u320	I come to the motion on item 574 by Mr Segers, co-signed by Mr Oskam and Mr Van der Staaij. This motion looks at the police volunteers and is the first motion I deal with in the context of the review, whereby the Chamber wants to impose an additional obligation on the National Police other than is provided for in the review note. I am going to give an answer to this that I will probably give more often during the period I am fulfilling this function. It is not for nothing that I have chosen to temporize in a number of areas. I also did this with regard to the police volunteers. I fully agree, I have also promised, that the existing police volunteers will be better supported and that they will be invested in them, I have also indicated in what order that will be. The corps will try to remove the unrest that Mr Segers believes there is. I am not going to carry out this motion, because that would mean using capacity that is now being used for its own staff, and that is where I place the priority, no matter how annoying I am with the agreements that have been made. This is the choice I make as a consequence of the recalibrate. I would therefore advise against this motion, although I find it very sympathetic, that I do not wish to remove anything from it. Finally, the motion in part No. 575 by Mr Recourt and Mrs Berndsen-Jansen. This assigns a diversity consciousness to the Chief Constable in the form of an effort obligation. At the same time, quality is required as a starting point. I've dealt with this theme. I know that the Chief Constable is experiencing this motion as a support for the diversity policy he wants to pursue and where quality is, of course, the starting point. I'll leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber. I conclude with the hope that the re-evaluation of the National Police, sometimes cautious and sometimes less cautious, can count on the assent of the Chamber. I really appreciate that. This is in the interests of individual police officers, who have been involved for too long in a reorganisation process in which there has been no clarity about their position. I have already said it at the beginning, but I repeat it once again: I taste involvement in the Chamber with the National Police, with the individual police officers, with those men and women who take care of our security day in and day out. Whether you're a cop in uniform or a supporter, it doesn't matter. As far as I'm concerned, they're all equally important. I am proud that, together with the Chamber, I can continue this reorganisation at a different pace but with unabated ambition. Thank you very much, Mr President, for this debate.
