ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister of Finance, like all the others present in this Chamber. The first speaker is Mr Koolmees of the D66 Group, with five minutes' speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u2	Mr. Chairman. This bill has a special history and I recognize it as the former Koolmeis amendment. In the case of the Court of Justice of the European Communities, an unnamed party voted against it by mistake. So the amendment did not come into the law and I very much appreciate the Minister's desire to change the law now and thus accept the amendment. However, I have tabled another amendment, because the Minister has decided by letter of amendment that he only wants to impose sanctions on local authorities afterwards. A reduction in the municipal or provincial fund can only be imposed after the end of a financial year if the CBS's figures show that the deficit standard has actually been exceeded. I think that is a step forward in relation to the Koolmees amendment, but if the Minister says a he must also say b. Then he must only impose a sanction if the Netherlands receives a sanction from Europe and does not impose a fine on himself. That is why I tabled an amendment with Mr Omtzigt. Almost two years ago, we debated this at length. Then the Minister wanted to have his own sanctioning powers. The argument for this was to use a discount on the Municipal and Provincial Funds as the ultimate medium to control the EMU balance in advance and to avoid a Brussels fine. That wasn't my preference at the time, but I'm flexible. I understood the Minister's argument and the Koolmees cum suis amendment left room for that, but now that the bill has been amended so that it is no longer possible to impose a fine in advance but afterwards on the basis of realization, that argument has disappeared as far as I am concerned. In my view, it does not fit in with the constitutional autonomy and equivalent administrative relations of local authorities, nor does it fit in with the joint responsibility of levels of government now enshrined in the Court of Justice Act and also borne by the local authorities. Municipalities, provinces and water boards are democratically controlled and can control their finances themselves. What situation does the Minister envisage in which he is going to make a reduction without penalty from Brussels on the Municipal and Provincial Funds? I can't think of a situation where that would be simple. Hence our amendment. I hope, of course, that there will be a great deal of support in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u3	I was under the impression that I had also signed that amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u4	Excuse me! Then I'm going to repeat my text in part. I have tabled an amendment on behalf of Mr Omtzigt and Mrs Schouten.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u5	The amendment has indeed been tabled on behalf of Mrs Schouten, and we checked it just to be sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u6	Mr. Chairman. Excuse me, I was a little late, so I could not quite hear Mr Koolmees' fine speech. I would therefore like to look forward to this amendment, because, as you know, we voted in favour of it last time, and as far as we are concerned, it could have been a hammer piece. I am pleased that the Minister has accepted the content of this amendment. However, in response to the latest amendment to this bill, the PVV wonders when exactly a financial penalty can be imposed. Looking at CBS figures afterwards, but to what extent is there a structural breach of the deficit standard? Of course, the Empire and the local authorities must work together to get public finances in order, but this must be done by mutual agreement and not imposed by Brussels, as the Court of Justice does. We have seen how much damage such a dictation from Brussels can do. The PVV therefore welcomes the fact that sanctions are not being taken at the same time, but that tailor-made measures are being provided to be able to be corrected in consultation. The Netherlands must do what is right for the Netherlands, not because Brussels has to do it. It is also a good thing that measures can be taken against individual governments which are systematically throwing their hats at them. Why should the good suffer from the evil? Finally, I wonder why the SP, the VVD and the PvdA were earlier opposed to Mr Koolmees's amendment. have voted. I am very curious whether they are going to vote against this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u7	Mr. Chairman. We are again discussing the Sustainable Public Finance Act today. Then it is about enforcing financial discipline in the local authorities. The Wet Hof is not a popular law among provinces, municipalities and water boards. That is understandable, because local authorities are not waiting for national interference. A great deal of criticism has therefore been made of the Court of Justice Act. That criticism was justified by the PvdA, because the law as initially submitted by CDA Minister De Jager was far too strict. Budgetary discipline is a good thing, but it would be unacceptable for it to close down the investments of local authorities. We need these investments to accelerate the recovery of jobs and growth. This cabinet has rightly relaxed the law considerably. First, the requirement that each individual municipality or province should comply with an individual deficit standard has been deleted. Afterwards, an administrative agreement was agreed between this minister and the local authorities. It states that the deficit margin will be significantly increased until 2017. Should the deficit standard be exceeded, sanctions will not be considered until 2017. In any case, there is always prior administrative consultation between the Empire and the local authorities. Today we are talking about a new round of relaxation. The administrative consultations prior to the imposition of sanctions are more heavily rigged. In addition, the possibility of imposing sanctions is further postponed over time. Sanctions can only be imposed if local authorities effectively exceed the deficit standard on a multiannual and structural basis. These sanctions can only be imposed if administrative arrangements to improve the situation do not produce sufficient results. We are talking about a situation that can only actually occur in 2020. The Labour Party supports the relaxation as stated in this legislative amendment. Despite all previous relaxations, municipalities and provinces still have concerns about this law. There's no harm in getting rid of that concern. I have said before and I say it again to the local authorities: don't let the Court of Justice stop you, because that law doesn't stop you; invest in cycle paths, in roads and in sustainable energy supply, because our economy needs it badly. I have also seen Mr Koolmees' amendment. I only saw Mr Omtzigt with that, but I understand that this needs to be corrected. That amendment aims at further easing. That would be about the fifth time. I repeat that the Labour Party is keen to ensure that the investments of municipalities, provinces and water authorities are not affected. On the other hand, the guarantees are already generously built in by the Minister. This is also supported by the administrative agreement with the local authorities. I can imagine that we should prevent the Sustainable Public Finance Act from becoming a toothless tiger altogether. In short, I would like to hear the Minister's views on this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u8	I have a question about the Koolmees/Omtzigt/Schouten amendment. Can the Labour Party imagine that the government is imposing a fine on a municipality because it has invested too much in all those favourite things that the PvdA has just mentioned, while the government is not sanctioned by Brussels? Is that a logic that the Labour Party would consider logical?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u9	During the previous treatment, so before this further relaxation was discussed, I have already stated in detail that there is every room for local authorities and provinces to invest. The multiannual figures of the Central Planning Office show that the level of depreciation in the coming years is higher than the level of investment. So we're freeing up resources of our own accord. Moreover, there is a broad macro-deficit standard, so it does not have to stand in the way of investment. Ultimately, the Sustainable Public Finance Act is about being able to enforce financial discipline at some point. If a law is introduced without sanctions at all, I can imagine that the Minister of Finance is not happy with it. But again, I would first like to hear the Minister's appreciation on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u10	A long speech, but not the answer to my very specific question. The Koolmees/Omtzigt/Schouten amendment provides that no penalty shall be imposed. So it is not the case that the municipality of the state can get a fine of one million, which must be done by Brussels because there would be an excessive deficit, whereas Brussels, for example the eurogroup president, does not impose a fine at the time. Does the PvdA consider it logical that a fine should be imposed on the municipality if it does not remain within that 3% standard, if that 3% standard does not lead to a penalty for the government?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u11	I understand your question. Initially, you linked the investments by municipalities and provinces. I am convinced that there is no obstacle to investment by municipalities and provinces. A Van Hijum motion has also been adopted in which it is stated that, should bottlenecks arise, solutions will then be found. So municipal and provincial investments cannot be locked up. So that's not where the problem is. I do think, however, that the Sustainable Public Finance Act should, in the last resort, provide opportunities to discipline local authorities.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u12	Mr Groot refers to the motion by Mr Hijum, which was adopted by the Chamber, which states that there should be no delay or delay of investment as a result of this law. What is in the explanatory memorandum to this bill on the sanction mechanism? One of the sanctions mentioned in the explanatory memorandum to this bill is that investments can be adjusted or postponed. Mr Groot shouldn't be happy about that, should he? In fact, that goes against the Van Hijum motion, which has been supported in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u13	I am sure that the Van Hijum motion will be respected. When it comes to sanctions, there are administrative consultations. Then the Empire will certainly have to have an eye and an ear for investments that might get in the way. But once again, given all the safeguards that have been built in, I do not see any reason to be concerned about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u14	Maybe Mr Groot isn't concerned, but we're laying down a law here. That law explicitly states that possibility. So that possibility remains open. Let me ask you again: if Mr Groot is against this, must he recognize it? I have tabled an amendment, together with Mr Omtzigt, to explicitly include in the law that this cannot be done. That is entirely in line with Mr Groot's speech, so he should be able to support it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u15	Again, I believe that this law provides sufficient guarantees that provinces, water authorities and municipalities can invest sufficiently. If sanctions are already in place, they will only come after 2020 at the earliest. That is also the result of the legislative amendment that is now before us. I think that a Sustainable Public Finance Act should have teeth in the last instance, otherwise we might as well not deal with a legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u16	I have another question about the Koolmees/Omtzigt/Schouten amendment, for the sake of completeness. My question follows on from Mr Omtzigt's question. We have now received a letter of amendment from the Minister stating that a penalty can only be imposed on a multiannual basis if a fine or a discount on the Municipal Fund or the Province Fund can be imposed on the basis of the CBS's implementations. That is very far from my original amendment, which was mainly about the preventive effect of this bill. You still have a sanction in my amendment, too. Once a fine comes from Brussels or an amount has to be lodged because we do not meet our standard, you can still impose a penalty. So the preventive action is still in place. Does Mr Groot consider it conceivable that the Empire will impose a fine on municipalities and provinces if the Empire is not faced with a fine and/or depositing money at the same time?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u17	The Sustainable Public Finance Act is, of course, not just about Brussels. The main purpose of the law is to make public finances sustainable. It also had to do with Brussels and gave rise to this bill, but it was not the only reason. I can imagine that the Empire should be able to act in any way if the long-term sustainability of public finances is put at risk by low governments. But once again, that seems to me to be a very theoretical possibility, because there are a lot of safeguards in place to ensure that this does not happen overnight. If we are talking about sanctions, they will come in 2020 at the earliest. I think that question has a high theoretical content.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u18	That is why I tabled the amendment because it has a high theoretical content. In my original contribution of one and a half years ago, almost two years ago, it was about the equality of the Empire, the provinces and the municipalities and about the administratively responsible attitude that administrative bodies have and show in the law. Does it fit in with all the agreements that are being made and with the shared interests to leave such a sanction hanging over the market? Is it appropriate, if you have watered it down so much that you already have those agreements and those shared interests, to do so without any threat from Brussels?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u19	I think you have to deal with it very carefully, that the bar for imposing sanctions must be very high and that you have to build in a lot of guarantees. In the end, however, you must be able to enforce a law if you have sustainable public finances at the top of your agenda. Finally, a question about the so-called macro-deficit standard. We see the tendency for low-level governments to have more and more tasks and powers. You can see that now in the decentralisations. Perhaps there will be a time when the municipal tax area will be expanded. Does the Minister agree with me that if there is an increasing amount of expenditure and revenue shifting from the Empire to local authorities, it is logical that at some point this will also have an impact on the deficit standards imposed on local authorities? As you get more tasks and more tax territory, it seems logical to me that you also need more room for manoeuvre. Is the Minister prepared to take another look at this in due course?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u20	Mr. Chairman. Today we are debating another amendment to a law that was passed in this Chamber not so long ago, and not thanks to the support of our group, because we voted against this law in April 2013. One of the reasons for this was the fact that, according to the Minister, a national sanction could be used against the local authorities, even if there was no fine from Brussels. With Mr Koolmees and Mr Van Hijum, I tabled an amendment to replace that national sanction with a correction mechanism, but it was rejected at that time. Luckily, we have a First Chamber. Partly thanks to the pressure exerted from that Chamber, there is now yet another amending law. I hear the Minister saying that this is not true, but I understand that there has also been talk in the First Chamber of replacing a sanction mechanism with a correction mechanism, with a broader package of measures, which could be adopted after administrative consultation and with the involvement of the Chamber. That was also more the idea that we had under this law. After all, the sanctioning mechanism is badly related to the spirit of the Court of Justice Act, which exudes that the Empire should want to get out of it in administrative consultation with the local authorities. That does not mean that all of my group's criticisms have been removed. With the letter of amendment to the Adaptation Act, the Cabinet makes it explicitly clear that the imposition of sanctions, even if no fine is on the table from Brussels, can still be part of the measures that can be adopted after administrative consultation with the General Measure of Governance to keep the EMU balance of decentralised authorities within the limits of the EMU balance. However, sanctions can only be imposed if there is a multi-annual exceedance as demonstrated by the implementation of the CBS. If the Minister's aim is to arrive at a joint solution in administrative consultation with local and regional authorities if there is a risk of exceeding the EMU balance, then the threat of imposing sanctions is not in principle appropriate. With the added paragraph 2 to Article 6, we seem to be back to square one. Why did the Minister choose to mention sanctions as part of these measures explicitly, but not other possible measures? What are alternative measures acceptable to the Minister? The cabinet always states that administrative consultation with local authorities plays a central role in the implementation of the Court of Justice Act. In this context, I would ask the Minister how the administrative consultation on this legislative amendment has been conducted. In fact, I find it worrying that the joint domes continue to have so much difficulty in shaping the correction mechanism, whereas the effectiveness of the mechanism depends very much on the involvement of these same domes of local authorities. I'd like to get a little more insight into how this went down. The original objective of the national sanction mechanism is that it would have a preventive effect. The sanction could be applied as an ultimate medium to control the EMU balance of local authorities prior to the financial year. With the letter of amendment, sanctions can only be imposed in the event of a multiannual exceedance as demonstrated by the realisations of the CBS. This removes the function of controlling the EMU balance in advance with a sanction. Therefore, there is no need for more and independent national sanctioning powers. That is why I have also co-signed Mr Koolmees' amendment, which stipulates that local authorities can only be sanctioned if the Dutch State is sanctioned. I hope, of course, that the end of the correction mechanism, the imposition of measures, will not be necessary. As has been said, it is always preferable to consider how improvement plans can be drawn up in administrative consultation. As far as my group is concerned, the initiative must lie with the local authorities. As far as I am concerned, local authorities must also be involved as much as possible in the adoption of measures. Is that also the Minister's intention? I now come to my second point of criticism. My group has always expressed the view that the autonomy of local authorities is a great asset and that the scope for investment should not be restricted by the Court of Justice Act. That is not only the conviction of my group. I have just mentioned the Van Hijum motion, which was tabled at the time of the Court of Justice Act, which has been adopted in Chambers and which calls on the government to 'prevent the Court Act from delaying or delaying investment and thus the loss of employment'. All parties in this Chamber have agreed to this, but now the explanatory memorandum to this bill explicitly states that phasing out investments can be an example of a measure that can be imposed. An explanatory statement is part of the law. That is exactly what I am saying to Mr Groot. So we are giving that space here now, which is not in line with the Van Hijum motion that was previously adopted in the Chamber. I have to say that this motion has not been carried out in this way. That is why I tabled an amendment with Mr Omtzigt which states that the measures contained in the correction mechanism should not lead to restrictions on the ability of local authorities to invest. I assume that the D66 Group will receive this amendment with a great deal of cheer, because it was Mr Pechtold himself who called on all the local authorities to invest. This amendment does not put it in any way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u21	Mr. Chairman. Putting public finances in order and keeping them in place is a responsibility of all governments. That's what the Court of Justice has in mind. With all the decentralisations that started on 1 January, steering on EMU balance for local authorities has become even more important. Yet we have had mixed feelings at the Law Court. The change before us does not remove these feelings. The aim of steering on the 3% standard is a component that the CDA has supported. My group has also supported the role of local authorities, because the deficits of these authorities also count for the EMU balance. However, the CDA was opposed to unilaterally imposing financial measures on local authorities, as this goes against the principle of subsidiarity. It is up to the local authorities themselves to decide what they do with their money, not the government. This is certainly true if state-controlled determination would have the effect of imposing sanctions at the expense of investment. That is why my group, through my former colleague Mr Van Hijum and others, stated at the time that it was necessary to prevent the Court of Justice from delaying or delaying investment and thus the loss of employment. Mr Van Hijum is now in a different position. That motion is the framework for my group. Does the Minister still see it that way? According to the CDA, this means that it must always be possible for a province to invest the money it still has in the bank. The Minister already checks the provinces annually for the submission of a long-term closing budget, just as the provinces control the municipalities in turn. What problem do we solve with the correction options from the Court of Justice Act? Although the members of the CDA Group support the idea that, in the extreme, you should be able to agree on additional cuts if the state of public finances so requires, they do not think that you should be able to do so unless there is a real problem, and not if you are expecting a problem. We thank the government for the letter of amendment it has sent us. Following this letter of amendment, it is no longer possible to reduce budgets or other sanctions on the basis of estimates. That is in accordance with our wishes. An estimate that local authorities will structurally exceed the commitments for the EMU deficit should ensure that the Empire and the local authorities engage in discussions and consider how to reduce the deficit. Only if this has no effect, as is shown by the structural differences in the realisation figures, could you think about budget reductions or other sanctions. Here too, however, the question arises as to whether this situation will arise. Surely it is the Empire, so the Minister, who annually controls the budgets and the annual accounts of the provinces? It is precisely there that the time has come to intervene if the budget is not conclusive. Then why the Law Court? I would like to hear a clear response from the Minister on this point. We would like to go a step further. For this I can simply agree with what Mr Koolmees and Mrs Schouten have said about the Koolmees/Omtzigt/Schouten's amendment. Remember that sanctions are often threatened, but they are not always imposed. I am referring to France as an example. Only if a penalty is imposed or a guarantee is applied for will a penalty be imposed on the local authorities. Another point I would like to raise is the area mentioned for investment by local authorities. It should be possible according to the Court of Justice Act, according to the Van Hijum motion. That is why my group has also supported Mrs Schouten's amendment on this point. If the Minister takes over, he won't have to answer my first question. I therefore sincerely hope that he will accept this amendment. It just gets a little shorter. I say this all the more so since we currently have a committee chairman, Mr Juncker, who would very much like to place investment outside the 3% framework. If you cannot invest as a province, unless you do so through a large European Court, while you still have money in the bank, then you are wrong. The Minister shakes no, but at the moment we in Europe also see the desire to allow these things to take place. I would therefore like to have a brief look at how this plan relates to the plans being made in Europe for investment and the loans that are being made for it. It's okay to go through that court. Then you get the weird situation that a province that has money in the bank is not allowed to invest by taking the money from the bank and making a way with it, but Juncker's plan is allowed to go to the European Investment Bank and borrow the money there to build that road. I do not think that is the intention, and that is one of the reasons why we have tabled the amendment with Mrs Schouten.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u22	The Wet Hof already offers a lot of room for investment for low governments. That is not what my question was about. Mr Omtzigt spoke about the principle of subsidiarity and said that the Court of Justice was against it, especially when it came to sanctions. How does Mr Omzig take the fact that Minister De Jager, a member of his party, has submitted this law in a way that was even more stringent than what is now in store? At that time, not only the local authorities were collectively tied to a deficit of zero, but even each individual municipality and water authority was tied to a deficit of zero. How does Mr Omtzig explain that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u23	Once again, as a parliamentary group, we had mixed feelings about that law. This can also be seen by the adoption of the Van Hijum motion which explicitly calls for investment to be excluded. We are now converting that motion into an amendment. I don't think there's much light in that. You are also used to me being somewhat critical, even when my own ruler is there. There are times when I feel like I'm only doing that to other governments.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u24	People who are longer members of this Chamber may remember that. Mr Groot has a second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u25	That Van Hijum motion was only raised when the Court of Justice Act was dealt with here. In the time Minister De Jager filed that law, I never heard the CDA about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u26	That motion was passed before the law was voted on. That seems to me to be quite timely.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u27	I am curious whether Mr Omtzigt believes that the Community fund should never be cut short.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u28	The government has a means of imposing measures on the provinces if they do not have a long-term budget. The same applies to the provinces in relation to the municipalities. There may be exceptional situations where a province makes a pot of it, has no money in the bank and is going to borrow it. Then she gets a clue and then a sanction is ultimum remedium what can happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u29	The amendment says, however, that we are destroying this possibility of cutting down the Province or Municipal Fund altogether. However, I can imagine situations, such as yesterday's ozb, where municipalities are structurally failing to comply with the macro norm of 2.5% and say: that's enough, we'll cut you short on the Municipal Fund. Does Mr Omtzig agree with me that the penalty for cutting the municipal fund should be maintained?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u30	Mr Van Dijk now wants to impose a sanction for something that is exactly the opposite of why a sanction is imposed in this law. In this law there is a sanction on not putting the budget in order, and Mr Van Dijck would also like to sanction municipalities if he thinks they collect too much taxes through the ozb, at least more than has been agreed with the Empire. I would like to think with Mr Van Dijck about what we could do against these municipalities, but I am not yet convinced that this should be done immediately through a fine for those municipalities. Finally. We are submitting these amendments, but we have very mixed feelings about this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u31	Mr. Chairman. The Court of Justice Act is a strict law. It's a strict law for extraordinary, exceptional circumstances. Does it include draconian measures? During the legal process, almost two years ago, the sanctioning instrument was already greatly relaxed, even after administrative consultation with the co-governments. In some ways, it is also caricatured. In the meantime, it has been found that the objections initially raised by local authorities against the Court of Justice do not arise in practice either. The deficit remains well within the agreed standards, especially since, as I predicted in the debate, after a number of years of decline in the Municipal and Provincial Funds and disappointing income from land exploitation, I do not have any more of these exuberant resources to invest fully, at least not as exuberant as before the crisis. These were all reasons why my group voted against the original Koolmees amendment. In addition, we found it technically very alien within the system of the Wet Hof; it came from the old Wet fido. Within the legal technique of the Court of Justice, we were right to have a firm sanction instrument included in it. Now the legislative proposal is before us to move on to the correction mechanism in accordance with that amendment. I can well imagine that the Minister has submitted this bill, also in view of the progress of the proceedings in the Upper Chamber. I might also be able to live with it, but I realize that there has been a new reality since yesterday, when a further amendment has been tabled by Mr Koolmees, supported by Mrs Schouten and Mr Omtzigt. I do not think that amendment makes any sense. In fact, if you follow that amendment, there is no longer any reason for local authorities to allow the administrative consultation, which was put in place at the very beginning, to succeed at all. After all, why would you make that work? At the very end there can no longer be a sanction, because the situation that the Netherlands is also fined in the end from Europe, fortunately, does not occur very often. I therefore believe that the Minister no longer has an instrument at all when he accepts the amendment and that the overall co-responsibility of local authorities does not appear to be proposing anything. I have a problem with that and I would like to know from the Minister how he views it. Like everyone here, I hope that all the instruments in the Court of Justice Act will not eventually be necessary, because that means that our public finances are going well, but we didn't think for 2008 that what happened to us after 2008 could happen. For this reason, it is good to have a strict legal instrument to intervene in exceptional cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u32	That is the end of the first term on the part of the Chamber. I hear the Minister of Finance say outside the microphone that he does not need a suspension. Then we will proceed immediately with the first-term response from the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u33	Mr. Chairman. We need to get back in time to understand what we're doing here. Yesterday, when the amendment came in, even I lost touch with what we are still doing here. My picture of the reality is that this law comes from European laws and regulations. He was tabled by my predecessor, who was also encouraged by a motion by Mrs Blanksma of the CDA. That's how it came into being. "Blanksma/Harbers" is added; voilà. The only one who fully supports this is Mr Harbers, as I see it. That's a joke, of course. What happened next? We dealt with that law. After administrative consultation I also made an agreement with the domes of the co-governments it has been adapted, more generous. More particularly, the question of intervention: first administrative consultation, multiannual, structural overruns and so on. Mr Groot mentioned it all. Those were changes I supported, too. It seemed reasonable in the Dutch administrative relations. But the bottomline is that the Finance Minister in the Netherlands, whether I am or my successor, really has a separate responsibility for sustainable public finances. That's just what this law says. That responsibility is not just a derived responsibility if Brussels imposes a sanction. This is not the way the directive works, and that is not how the law works. It is an independent competence and responsibility of the Minister of Finance. That's important. After all, if the amendment is adopted, it has actually become a secondary responsibility: only if Brussels imposes a fine on the Netherlands or any other sanction, than et cetera. Anyway, let's take a look at the history first: how did it go? There was an amendment by Mr Koolmees in which he said that the sanction mechanism is still too harsh; take the old mechanism of the Finance Decentral Authorities Act. I can't even reconstruct why it was rejected, but it's been rejected. Very shortly after, I therefore nodded 'no' when it came to the First Chamber. After consulting some of you, I said to Mr Koolmees: I am prepared to do so once again in a legislative amendment. After all, I had not rejected it either, so my memory is of the tail of the debate; 'it can be done fine'. Then we'll do that. Apparently then we made a tactical mistake by allowing in a letter of amendment another relaxation that was requested by the domes and also by the CDA, repeatedly: shouldn't it be based on realization figures? Suppose you say: we only intervene, ultimum remedium, if it has actually gone wrong for a number of years. Then you also have realization figures. If you come to the conclusion 'this is likely to become structural', you must be able to intervene. Realization figures are not a very strange idea. That point was therefore included in the letter of amendment. Now that letter of amendment, including the fact that we say that we will do it on the basis of results, is used to put in an amendment: if you do it only on the basis of results, it makes no sense at all; then before doing anything you can just as well wait until there is a fine from Brussels. I'm okay with it all, but are we serious about this law here or not? "Seriously" means that the Minister of Finance has the power and also the ability to act if there is structural................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Do I expect this to happen frequently? No. But with a lot of legislation, you are using correction mechanisms and sanctions: what do you do if...? Then you don't assume in advance that you have to bet it immediately. However, it is necessary. In short, I would like to make the following comments on this amendment. Maybe we misunderstood each other. I am prepared to withdraw the letter of amendment. I'm willing to withdraw the bill. Then we'll go back to the law as it was passed. But with the amendment I have tabled, the letter of amendment and the Koolmees/Omtzitzit/Schouten amendment, the possibility of correction simply becomes entirely a derivative of the extreme situation that Brussels imposes a fine on us and that we can never act before. I have always said this in the debate: if that is the case, every Finance Minister will immediately take additional measures to avert that fine from Brussels. This means that that responsibility will be entirely on the national budget. After all, in that situation where I have not been fined, I have never allowed myself to turn it away by simply intervening in the national budget, and never to push back part of the scheme to the other governments which have helped to increase the deficit. No, you can't, because "you didn't get a fine." Yeah, amehula. The Minister of Finance himself has acted to prevent him from getting into a fine situation. In short, we really should not go on this road. That's a really wrong approach. I strongly dissuade the amendment. It's a hollowing out of the law. The amendment tabled by Mrs Schouten and Mr Omtzigt is, if possible, even worse.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u34	Mr Koolmees would like to ask a question about the other amendment that you have not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u35	The minister gets excited; that's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u36	Motivated!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u37	Motivated; that's good, too. I'm going back in time. A year and a half ago, we had a debate here. D66's commitment was always that it was fine that the Court Act should be introduced and that the Minister of Finance and the Cabinet, in cooperation with provinces and municipalities, should be responsible for sustainable public finances. We very much welcome that; we have also supported the law. We only had discussions about the fundamental question of who is going to do this, the Empire, the provinces or the municipalities, on the basis that we also have local elections. That was the approach route of my input a year and a half ago. I said at the time that this sanction is indeed a bit harsh, on the basis of that shared responsibility. Then I used the already existing law fido. On that basis, I said: if you are jointly responsible for the preventive action and if you see that something is coming, then you're going to solve it. If you really don't want to work on that, the ultimum remedium is a sanction. The Minister had encouraged and taken over this. The PvdA voted against it by mistake and that's why it didn't make it. Now, one and a half years later, there is suddenly a discussion afterwards, based on the achievements presented by the CBS. I find this strange, because the Minister's whole argument was based on the preventive effect and on the desire to get out of this together with equal levels of government. That is why I tabled this amendment, because if it is, you are far too late with multiannual implementations of the deficit standards afterwards. Then you haven't taken that common responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u38	I have two comments to make. Firstly, Mr Koolmees' reasoning is totally different from that of Mr Omtzigt, but they have tabled an amendment together. That's what's confusing me. Mr Koolmees says that he considers this to be a matter of principle. He talks about the constitutional autonomy of the municipalities, et cetera. Mr Omtzigt says: no, that is not the point; the Minister has long had the power, because he can say in advance to provinces that they do not have a multi-annual budget and he can act; I think Mr Omtzigt is right about that. The principle of autonomy goes a long way, but there are laws in the Netherlands that allow the government to take corrective action in an extreme situation; this is one of them. Secondly, I would like to make a comment on the implementation figures. As I have just said, the CDA and the domes have asked for this several times and there is an aspect of reasonableness in this. Why? Mr Koolmees' reasoning is: if it has already been realized, it is too late; forget it, because it is no longer useful. Of course, that's not true. We have always said that this is a structural deficit overrun, not a one-off overrun, but a structural overrun, for two years or more. Then it's quite reasonable, I think I'm really incredibly reasonable, that I want to have two years of realization figures and estimates that look further ahead. If we have already gone over the deficit standards twice and if the estimate shows that we are going even further beyond the deficit standard, we really have a situation to deal with. Then I call that "structural." If I am not going to use realization figures, I could be blamed for finding out that it is structural. So it's a combination of realization figures, where we look back one or two years, and the estimates. If the line is continued structurally, we will really go to the table with each other, because then something has to be done. That's how it works. The point of these realization figures is therefore, in all reasonable terms, a further improvement. If this is used to further undermine sanctions, I shall withdraw that letter of amendment; there should be no misunderstanding about that. That would be a pity for Mr Omtzigt, who has always argued in favour of this, just like the domes. If we are going to construct this kind of reasoning, I am going to take away the possibility of that reasoning; then I will simply withdraw the letter of amendment. I'm a long way away already. There is also the amendment tabled by Mrs Schouten and Mr Omtzigt, which refers to the Van Hijum motion. Mr Van Hijum tabled that motion in response to the great concern of him and others that, although all the figures show that this risk is very imaginary, the law would nevertheless lead to the reduction of investment by the provinces. I have only once taken the lists with the realization figures in relation to the deficit standards. You can see that the local authorities, especially the provinces, keep away from that. Even more interesting is the following, something that is always cited. There is an annual survey of what is expected of investment. The expected investments are always above the norm, when we think that the year in question is going to get worse. You can see what's happening every year. The balance based on the 2011 survey was -4.6, but the realisation was -3.7. The 2012 survey: expected balance was -4.2 and the realisation -3.2. The 2013 survey: expected balance was -4,1 and realisation -2,4. Each time the declaration of what one is going to invest is far above the actual realization, which later follows, the CBS puts those questions to the public authorities as a survey. It is a classic example of the misery that one fears but never came. That is why I was very relaxed, and that is why the entire Chamber adopted Van Hijum's motion. We don't want it to get ugly. When we look at the numbers, we don't expect it to get any worse. Now the exceptional situation is that the deficit standard has been exceeded for two years. The expectation, the estimate is that this will remain so. You have to be able to take action. You can say in consultation or in the form of a measure that the investments should be postponed or: if you invest this year and you next year, then we have no bottleneck either. There are also many other possibilities. Other governments also have consumer spending. We always think that when the norm comes down, it's at the expense of investment, but it doesn't have to. You can also make other cuts, as Mr Omtzigt said. I have no problem with that motion because it expresses a political intention and expectation. I do have a problem with the amendment because it actually states that investment will no longer be involved in determining deficits. That's a misunderstanding that lives on Juncker's plan. He says that if you invest in that plan, that investment expenditure doesn't count for the deficit, but that's not true at all. That's a real misunderstanding. The only thing that is under discussion about the Juncker plan is the next question. Suppose governments pay up the EFSI's capital on a one-off basis and therefore just go over the deficit standard. Moreover, the Commission will not do this to Eurostat, because fortunately it will do everything in its power to assess the deficit: you have made a one-off deposit into the EFSI. That was the idea, but that's not gonna happen at all. There's no country that's gonna do this. We are now in the process of discussing governance in such a way that everyone in Brussels and in Ecofin assumes that capital injections will not happen. Mr Omtzigt's assumption went even further. He said that if provinces invest in a road and they do so by borrowing or pre-financing through the European Investment Bank, which no longer counts in their deficit. That's really not right. Some countries were in favour of this, especially Italy, but in future you open the locks to the deficit calculation and then you open a discussion about what is another investment and what a constructive expenditure. Then you will see that half of the budget is suddenly made up of investments, which no longer count for the deficit calculation. We shouldn't go on that road. This does not happen with Juncker, nor should we do with the Schouten/Omtzigt amendment, which says the same thing: investment must never be restricted. In other words, don't look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u39	I was almost under the impression that the Minister was going to defend our amendment with all the arguments he mentioned. I refer to the arguments he gave for his political relaxation on the Van Hijum motion. It is precisely that reasoning that he can attach to this amendment. He started with the remark: this is virtually never the case. Then what is the Minister's concern? He also says that this principle is a political statement, and that is important. That also applies to this amendment. If the political verdict in that motion is that we must prevent the law from delaying or delaying investment, but we are actually rejecting that sentence again at the next opportunity for a law to be passed, is that not true with what the Chamber has said?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u40	The sanction mechnism, or whatever you want to call it, is only intended for the extreme situation that governments allow their deficits to grow too much several years in a row and do not take any action themselves. These measures will then be limited, because it says here that it should not be at the expense of the investments that the government had planned. That's what the amendment says. In doing so, Mrs Schouten comes into the autonomy of the local authorities, because according to this amendment, they must, by definition, look for it in their consumer spending. That's not up to me. I think this is a strange amendment. If that ultimate situation arises, you must be able to impose a measure. It will not often occur in the Dutch situation; the Dutch authorities are generally also very neat with their budget. I do not see why a debate on investment declarations and their planning should be excluded in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u41	Of course, it is the autonomy of the local authorities to decide how to fill in when something has to be done, just as well as they themselves complete their investments. That is precisely what this amendment is about. We want these authorities to continue to do so themselves and that the Minister of Finance does not come along with the communication: you will now be sanctioned unless you cancel that investment. If a province says: we do not do that because this harms our jobs, for example, we prefer to look for it in consumer spending, and the Minister says: you must do this in such investments, then this amendment prevents the Minister from continuing to do so. This does not affect the autonomy of the local authorities. In fact, this strengthens that autonomy. Does the Minister recognize this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u42	If it goes as Mrs Schouten describes, that is to say the local authorities say to the Minister that they are making a different choice and that they will cut consumption expenditure, the problem is of course solved. Then you'll be away from that whole sanction trail and the problem will be solved. We are in a situation where people do not want to do so, and they say that it is not my problem, the deficit is your problem. This is not how we know each other in administrative relations. Again, this is the tail of the law and then the minister must be able to act. Mrs Schouten actually says that the Minister should not act; she does not want a sanction mechanism. That's a really different approach. I believe that I have answered most of the questions. Mr Groot pointed out that, in the case of decentralisation, the budgets were shifting and relations between the various authorities changed. He asks me if I'm willing to look at the distribution of the total deficit space. The answer to that question is yes. We do this at the beginning of each cabinet period. Then, for the next four years, it will be neatly deported: this is the deficit area and it will be divided between governments. Then these things can be taken into account, because this is a legitimate point. By the way, we know what the situation is like at the moment. We have expressed an ambition, but it will not be respected. An ambition means that the deficit area for the other governments goes down from 0.5 to 0.3 or 0.2. But we will not even maintain them; it is only an ambition. In 2016 we will see how things are developing. Mr Van Dijck asked when a sanction would actually be imposed. Others asked for it. Actually, I've already answered that question. A sanction or correction can only be considered if the macro standard is exceeded for two years or more. This has to do with the wording "structural." Then we are dealing with two years of realization and a forward estimate. Then there will first be administrative consultations to see how the matter can be brought back to normal. This can be laid down in improvement plans. In the even more theoretical case that joint administrative consultation does not lead to improvement and averting the structural nature, a correction is conceivable. I think I've said all about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u43	In the event of interruption, I would have said: if the deficit were to be reversed, a consultation could result in 'we are going to throw up the increases', or in 'we are going to throw up the ozb', as we saw yesterday. But that is contrary to another agreement, about the ozb-macronorm that has been exceeded for three or four years. What sanctions does this Finance Minister have in order to prevent the agreements from being dealt with in the way of improper taxation?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u44	None.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u45	That sanction will never be imposed, because at the time when the deficit is structurally exceeded, the municipality or the province has a revenue button to turn on. Then this Minister of Finance has checked when the IZB goes to 5%.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u46	At a time when governments have structural deficits, they can do things on the expenditure side or on the revenue side. This is true for municipalities and for provinces; that is just the case. If you think that the IZB standard should really be a hard ceiling with sanctions, we need to make a separate law for that. At least that's not what this law's gonna do. I hear Mr Koolmees saying that he is against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u47	Mr. Chairman. It's clear. The Minister is excited, or motivated. That is good, because then we will have a sharp debate. Again, the Sustainable Public Finance Act has received the support of D66, because responsibility for sustainable public finances within the various levels of government is indeed seen by us as an important issue. I am talking about the shared responsibility of the Empire, the provinces and the municipalities. There is no doubt that I am still grateful to the Minister for incorporating my original amendment on the Fido Act and the sanctions into the law. Thank you for that. The Minister says: if there are no sanctions, there is a risk that the Empire will only be responsible for reducing a deficit. That is at the heart of today's debate. Of course, that's not true. Apart from the responsibility and shared interests enshrined in the Sustainable Public Finance Act, the fact that provinces and municipalities also have a standard and the fact that administrative arrangements need to be made, the Minister of Finance has a "step up, down" system. If the Empire cuts, it will be translated to the municipalities. The same applies to the implementation of schemes and to decentralisation. A very large part of the budget has been transferred to the municipalities, while national legislation still exists. To be honest, that does not seem to me to be a valid argument for this point. That "step up, down the stairs" system has been around for years. They're administrative arrangements. In fact, at the Central Planning Office this will be booked in advance if we have our electoral programmes passed on. In practice, there are many instruments for monitoring. For example, provinces supervise municipal finances. We also have all kinds of administrative agreements, laws and regulations for this. Then the fundamental point remains whether you find that a shared responsibility based on the equivalence of the levels of government. That is the fundamental point that my group made a year and a half ago. I do not have the illusion that the Minister is now going to embrace my amendment, even after my valid second-term argument, but I have tried.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u48	Mr Van Dijck does not need a second term. I call Mr Groot.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u49	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for the clear language he has spoken about the amendment. At least he has created clarity in the debate. It is indeed a question of whether the government should, in the final analysis, have the means to take the final responsibility for sustainable public finances. I see it as a gain from this debate that this has been clarified. A word about the Van Hijum motion, because there was some confusion about that too. I understood the Van Hijum motion at the time as well as the Minister. Within the context of the facilitations and the administrative agreement that was concluded at the time, Mr Van Hijum wanted an extra lock on the door. He wanted the investments not to be closed down in the coming years at least. There was a great deal of concern about this at the CDA and it was taken away with the Van Hijum motion. That seemed rather superfluous to me, given all the safeguards that have already been built in. We could easily vote in favour of this motion at that time, but I never understood that motion as a nullification of the provisions contained in the Sustainable Public Finance Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u50	Mr. Chairman. I can agree with the conclusion that the Minister himself drew from our speech. He said: the Christian Union is against the sanction mechanism. That was also at the heart of why we voted against the Sustainable Public Finance Act at the time. Mr Koolmees himself has already explained in detail what possibilities this minister has for all of us at the moment when there is something going wrong with the local authorities. In short, this law speaks more of distrust than of confidence, and that is not the way we want to deal with our local authorities. I find it remarkable that, in particular, the PvdA, the party which, at all levels, calls for more investment, both in Europe and in the local authorities, is dealing with a provision in a law that is perhaps hypothetical. Let me say that I also hope that it is hypothetical and that it will not happen. Then there doesn't have to be any fear of it if we're going to settle it properly in the law? It goes completely against the PvdA's argument, which calls for additional investment at all levels, while if that happens, there is a risk that sanctions will simply be imposed. That is not the way we want to say to the local authorities: do your part. I'm surprised the PvdA does this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u51	Mr Omtzigt does not need a second term. I call Mr Harbers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u52	Mr. Chairman. Just a few more comments. I very much agree with the passionate, emotional and annoying statement made by the Minister. It is almost tempting, quite frankly, to vote in favour of the Koolmees amendment, in order to ensure that the whole bill is withdrawn. There's a certain challenge in that. I very much agree with the Minister when he says that we are making a bit of a hut spot here, while the law is just meant for exceptional circumstances where you really need instruments. I also very much agree with the Minister where he described the Schouten amendment as 'crazy amendment'. I would also like to say that we voted in favour of the Van Hijum motion as well. I see the Van Hijum motion as an assignment to the Minister. The motion is about what the minister takes to the administrative consultation when we get into that situation. But I find it strange to lay down in the law what other governments then have to comply with, as other governments can come to other considerations for that administrative consultation. In fact, I think that the most real outcome is that, in administrative consultation, planning is particularly well co-ordinated. After all, you know that the sum total of all the planning of investments by governments and provinces is by definition not achieved. Everyone's taking too much action. In my view, we are already there if we are agreed in such an administrative consultation on whether the planning is being carried out. What can we do next year? In this way our Minister, with the Van Hijum motion in his hand, can also ensure that it is not at the expense of investments which would probably not happen. That is why we are against the Schouten amendment. Moreover, normal supervision is not important in this respect, because you can have a balanced budget and still invest too much because of the difference between income and expense systems at the decentralised level and the cash system at the state level.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u53	This brings to an end the second term on the part of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u54	Mr. Chairman. I am neither excited nor emotional, but it is about the law of the Court of Justice, but it is driven and convinced of the meaning and nonsense of some of the proposals. I have heard Mr Koolmees say that he actually prefers to cut down on decentralised budgets in the situation where the deficit area of decentralised authorities is being exceeded. That's what I heard him say. I find that a remarkable statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u55	But Mr Koolmees wants to respond immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u56	Now it's getting a little faint. I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u57	Now I find you emotional!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u58	No, no, no. Mr Koolmees has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u59	Now I'm getting a little excited in this discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u60	Look out!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u61	I didn't say that. I have said that in the last ten years, the Minister of Finance has been taking measures or making cuts almost every year that affect the Municipal Fund and the Province Fund: through the step-by-step system and through the arrangements implemented by the municipalities or by the provinces. It's all the same. If the Minister says that it will only be the responsibility of the Empire to bring down the government deficit, that is simply not true. That's not the practice. These are not the administrative agreements that exist in the Netherlands, and it is not the reality of the past ten or twenty years.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u62	Good. But we are still talking about the situation in which the government does not allow too much deficit to occur, but local authorities are structurally exceeding their deficit margin. The question then is whether we should correct this by making savings at national level, with indeed a kick-off effect, in this case down the stairs. Then the municipalities and provinces also pay a bit. Is that the route you're looking for? I don't think so. I think that you should simply be able to say with a stick behind the door to the local authorities that it concerns, quite specifically and specifically: people, this is not going well; can we agree on this for a moment? Mr Groot was right to say that the Van Hijum motion was never intended to undermine the law. That is absolutely right. If that had been the case, I would have greatly discouraged that motion and I hope it would not have been adopted either. That motion was a vote of confidence. The CDA also voted in favour of the law, but Mr Van Hijum wanted to send the message to the governments: this law, as it is now, and given the experience we have in recent years, will not be hard for investment. That's the way it is. That is why Mrs Schouten's comment towards the Labour Party... how shall I put it... does not go far enough; I was looking for another expression but it also suffices. She says: investing is therefore a risk of sanctions. No, not at all. There's still plenty of investment space. The deficit standard shall not be exceeded. Anyway, Mrs. Schouten doesn't believe me. Let's just look at it on the basis of realization figures. There you have them again or it pinches. It is only when it breaks down for two years and when we expect it to be structural that we get into this situation. There's plenty of investment space. Let the provinces, if they can, invest in particular. The economy can use it very well at the moment. I think we can agree on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u63	This brings the second deadline to an end. No, Mr Omtzigt has something else to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u64	I have a procedural request. If the Minister is persistent in his threat to withdraw the letter of amendment, we would like to hear it before Friday evening, because that means that we have to amend our amendments at that time. We have to re-table his letter of amendment as an amendment from us.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u65	I see this as a question that I would just like to put to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u66	Of course, it wasn't a threat. It was a rhetorical theorem. If, on the basis of the well-meaning gesture in this letter of amendment, which is actually still a relaxation towards the CDA's and the domes' desire, the Chamber would say that it is now completely opposed to sanctions, that might give me reason to withdraw the letter of amendment. If both amendments were to be adopted, which I hope will be even more theoretical, I will consider and go back to the Cabinet to see how we deal with this little bill. In fact, a possible two-fold improvement in the legislation itself and the letter of amendment is suddenly reversed by a few political groups in 'let's throw the whole law over the head'. As far as I am concerned, that is against the destructive and Members know how to deal with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u67	I conclude from these words that there will not be a written reply before Friday and that you will therefore have to draw your own conclusions on the basis of these comments, Mr Omtzig.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u68	We will be voting on the bill next Tuesday and on both amendments.
