ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u1	Mr. Chairman. A lot has happened in the last few days. I would like to comment on the topical and urgent debate before I come to the legislative changes. The Council of State took an important step this week by saying that the gas tap at Loppersum should be completely closed. Fortunately, Minister Kamp immediately said he will. It would be very nice if today the Minister could also give the guarantee that the crane will not open elsewhere. Next week we will have a more extensive debate on this research, but that certainty cannot be offered quickly enough as far as my group is concerned. Perhaps the Minister will be able to make us happy on that point today. A second topical point, which relates indirectly to the same law, concerns the reversal of the burden of proof in the handling of the damage in Groningen. An important amendment to this law has been tabled by colleagues from the Animal Party and the Labour Party: to reverse the burden of proof for mining damage. We must note that the current system, which was set up with the best of intentions at the time, is not working properly. There's a lot going wrong. Groningers are too often sent from the cabinet to the wall and can only fight the strong NAM. In a previous debate on gas, the Animal Party has already asked whether we would like to take a serious look at this reversal of the burden of proof. We have done so and I wholeheartedly support the amendment that is now before us. I do have a question about it, because it is actually a fundamental reversal of a rule of law. Has the Council of State been consulted on the precise wording? Does it correspond to what we want to achieve, namely the strengthening of the position of the Groninger? Or are there any unintended side effects we'd like to take away? My question to the authors is, therefore, whether they have done so and whether they would otherwise consider it important. I guess it has to be through the government. However, I believe that a majority of the House is in favour of this fundamental step, and together we will benefit from rapid but also careful implementation. I'd like to hear the answer later. Then I'll get to the law amendment myself. The proposal for this legislative amendment is the result of the terrible oil spill with the BP drilling platform, which caused an enormous ecological disaster in the Gulf of Mexico. We want to avoid the same kind of drama in the North Sea. That is why this law imposes stricter requirements on the detection and extraction of oil and gas. My group is in favour of this. It is the implementation of a European directive. However, we still have a number of questions. The biggest changes to this law are mandatory reports. Mining companies need to provide a lot of additional paperwork: a report on major hazards, an internal contingency plan, the company's policy to prevent major accidents, a description of the safety and environmental management system, an external contingency plan and a number of notifications. It is, of course, very important that these companies really know what to do in the event of a disaster and that they have a good policy to guarantee the environment and safety, if this happens, as best they can. But of course, all those reports I just mentioned shouldn't be written in front of the desk drawer. So we have to make sure that doesn't turn into a paper tiger. It must have a real impact on practice and not just be an administrative burden without impact on practice. I would therefore like to know from the Minister whether, in addition to all the additional pieces that need to be made, extra expected and unexpected visits by the SodM will take place. In practice, then, we can also ensure that there is real monitoring of the improvement of safety. As far as D66 is concerned, State supervision of the Mines is also given a large number of tasks with this law, because it has to check all those documents. At the same time, they are busy with many other tasks, such as gas extraction in Groningen. Only 60 people work at the SodM. They get extra duties, but they only get two people. Isn't that very little? Does the limited occupation of the SodM constitute an obstacle to carrying out checks proactively at mining companies? Of course, it is not intended that it will only be the ticking of checklists: "Is there a safety report? Check in the box!" The question is whether there really is a safety report, which really deals with the existing situation and whether it is sufficiently respected. It shouldn't be a paper exercise, because then we'll all get nowhere. The European directive applies only at sea. The BP disaster was the result of offshore mining activities. The government chooses to establish rules for country as well. I think that would be wise, because why not place the rules for installations at sea, which have certain risks, also for installations on land, where the consequences may be much greater than at sea, because many people can live nearby? However, there are a few things that are still different. At sea, State surveillance of the Mines will have to give its assent to the report on major hazards before the activity can be started. So at sea you really need to be sure that everything in terms of great dangers is well arranged before you can start. But on land that is not necessary, while there may be people living in the immediate vicinity. Also, a company is allowed to work without agreement. According to the government, it is better to join current practice. But is it better to keep these two separate systems next to each other? Isn't that confusing, even for the business community itself? Does this give the SodM more resources to prevent dangerous situations at sea than on land? Does that even make sense? As far as my group is concerned, it is not. The general public preparation procedure, as it is so well known, will apply to the detection of gas and oil at sea. In practice, this means that stakeholders have a very early say in decisions on planned oil and gas activities. On land, however, this early participation does not apply. Isn't that crazy? For the purposes of applying for permits to search land, think of shale gas, to name but one, additional gas wells, or perhaps even the injection of waste water, it is very important that people have timely participation and that they can stop planning if they have good reasons for doing so, rather than always trying to stop something that is already at an advanced stage and for which unnecessary costs may have been incurred, including those who do want something. Why does the Minister distinguish between land and sea when applying the general public preparation procedure which regulates early participation for people who have an interest in it? I come to the independent verification, i.e. the independent control mechanism in which someone can say: are all the reports that that company has written really true? An independent expert shall verify that a mining plant complies with environmental and safety requirements and that sufficient measures have been taken to reduce risks. That is what the directive says, and that seems to me to be an excellent idea. However, that expert may be employed by the same company as the one whose installations he is required to control. I don't think that's such a brilliant idea. Well, that's a bit of the butcher who approves his own meat. I'm really wondering if with everything we've seen of incidents in recent years, you can still say that it's always an independent expert. I don't mean to say that someone like that can't be independent, but the question is whether you should want this, given the situations we've seen in recent years. Isn't this a recipe for keeping problems in mining installations under control? Why does the Minister not accept the conditions that the independent expert should be truly independent and therefore not be employed by the company he controls? The activities of mining companies may pose major risks to people and the environment. It is therefore a good thing that this law lays down strict requirements. However, we also think it is important to ensure that controls are properly carried out.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u2	Thank you. We are now going to listen to Mr Smaling from the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u3	Mr President, you are looking remarkably. I hope it doesn't go like this all day.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u4	I'm gonna take a look at your T-shirt and what kind of graph is on it. They are high voltage cables, says Mr Bosman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u5	This symbolizes the relationship between seismicity and tremors.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u6	Look, we've got that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u7	Mr. Chairman. This innocent debate on the translation of a European directive into national law has become dynamite. You can say that again. The situation in Groningen is debatable, but also the rotten atmosphere, let me just say, which has resulted in this whole dossier both in the province and in the Chamber. In fact, this amendment to the Mining Act has been repealed. The directive was due to a major accident involving a drilling platform in Mexico. The aim of the Directive is to reduce the risk of major accidents caused by oil and gas activities and to reduce their impact. Much of the measures are now being prescribed on land. We support that. I would like to draw attention to a few points which relate directly to the legislative proposal. The SodM will be assigned eight tasks. The costs shall only be partially passed on to the holder of the authorisation, operator or owner of mining works. The cost story is now set at 30%. The SP Group would like this to be 100%, as is the case in Ireland, for example. In doing so, we are relying on the principle that the causer pays. The law only has a public preparation procedure prior to an investigative licence. My group proposes that the procedure should be extended to apply for both the exploration and extraction permits for minerals and geothermal energy for reasons just as indicated by Mrs Van Veldhoven. We believe that this is in line with the recommendation of the Security Research Council. This allows you to streamline the whole process with, for example, the organisation of the Trace Act, where a preference decision only follows a broad consideration of everything that concerns people. The third point is that, in our view, licences granted must be consumed within a certain period of time. My group therefore proposes that two years after authorisation is granted, the situation should be reviewed. An investigative licence could therefore have a different duration than a mining licence. This seems to me to be a useful addition to the legislative proposal. Then I come to the reversal of the burden of proof, the main dish of this debate. In his letter of a few days ago, the Minister states that legislation in neighbouring countries would not actually give rise to the incorporation of the reversal of the burden of proof into the legislative proposal. In Germany, the presumption of evidence is laid down by law, as the minister also writes. That seems to me to be an important difference. Moreover, in Germany there is a dispute settlement outside the courts. We know this in the form of mediation at municipal level, but not in matters as far-reaching as those that are now taking place in Groningen. How does the 'Germany story' in the Minister's letter contribute to his conclusion that we do not need to change anything? The Minister further wrote in his letter that reversal of the burden of proof would not work. In fact, it would weaken the position of the doomed. The Minister gives an example of Mr Jansen from Loppersum. I do not envy him who is worse off in case of reverse evidence. Is this right now? In the first place, the Minister takes the view that the judge is well-equipped. It's possible. You can look back and see how judges have ruled in these cases in the past. That may not be enough ground to avoid change. Secondly, according to the Minister, the evidence of quake damage remains with the injured party. Is that true? In the written response prior to a previous debate, I read that the NAM, TNO and the KNMI all use different models and methodologies that link seismicity to quake damage. The graphs of the relationship between seismicity and tremor damage clearly show that connection, but with that you have no causality yet. You look at the graph and you think "hey, that's connected," but apparently we're not yet scientific enough to have a more mechanistic model that translates a vibration into a crack. What do you want from a judge? The conclusion is that you obviously cannot establish that causality and that you should also lay down the evidence suspicions legally. There is another kind of lack of knowledge that I believe undermines what the minister writes in his letter. I'd like to get a reaction to this. It will not surprise the Minister that my group basically embraces the Jan Vos/Ouwehand amendment. This is partly due to the unimaginable misery in Groningen and the quite inadequate reactions since the earthquake at Huizinge. That observation is still separate from the findings of the Security Research Council, which we will be discussing. For people with more complex damage there is still a long, winding road ahead. For many people, it is already extremely disruptive when the findings of the damage expert sent by the NAM and of the person performing the counterexpertise are far apart. Who else is going to think: come, I'll get the Tcbb, the committee poignant cases or the Committee on Soil Reduction, or I'll go to the Dialogue table? Then you've been looking out for you for a long time and thinking: how can I, as a loner, take my right against this immense organization? At the same time, we do want the amendment to work. If that is not quite clear after the end of this debate, perhaps we should not vote immediately but ensure that it is a completely watertight amendment. Let me stress that for a moment. We should not, in our enthusiasm, perhaps not make a decision from everyone, but from me, a decision too soon. I'm going into Limburg. We have asked questions about this in the written submission, in particular about the consequences of mining activities and the limitation period. The mines closed in 1974, but in 1994 stopped pumping away mine water. The mineways are close to the surface. After 1994, the soil went up, with the water. It seems very likely that this has led to the current damage in the Parkstad region. See all these houses in e.g. Eygelshoven and Landgraaf: they are very torn. I think the minister's been there, too, so he's been able to see it for himself. In addition, housing in this area is under a slope, also on a package that is not very stable by nature. The Civil Code states that the claim for compensation for the damage is only due after 30 years. Does the Minister see stopping water pumping in 1994 as a new fact? And is that the starting point for him to count those 30 years? As far as Groningen is concerned, we still have 50 written questions before the Minister. I certainly won't repeat it here. I look forward to the answers to that. We have had the preliminary ruling of the Council of State and we will soon be discussing the recommendations of the Security Research Council. We have also been able to read that residents living outside the contours can claim compensation. In short, things are moving. We are far from there yet, but the conclusion is that the people in Groningen will win this; people will no longer be fooled.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u8	Mr. Chairman. The PVV Group agrees with the objective of the directive, which aims to further reduce the risk of major accidents in oil and gas activities at sea, following the oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico. We do wonder to what extent this legislative proposal contributes to achieving that objective. That is why we have a number of questions for the Minister to clarify on this point. The bill refers to "reports and verifications." Can the Minister give a concrete indication of what these checks are? Are those also visual inspections on the scene? Or is it just a marginal review of a paper reality? Can the Minister give an example of a security risk that is better addressed in the new law than in the current law? And can the Minister indicate whether there have been risk situations in the Netherlands in oil and gas activities that could have been avoided through these additional reports and verifications? If the Minister can prove that the structural additional costs of some EUR 6.6 million per year that this directive entails actually lead to more security, then we can agree to this bill. Speaking about the Mining Act, I come to the amendment on the reversal of the burden of proof. Normally in the Netherlands: who demands, proves. That principle is contained in Article 150 Civil Procedure, but that same article also has an exception. I quote: '(...) unless a different distribution of the burden of proof arises from any particular rule or from the requirements of reasonableness and fairness'. In other words, reversal of the burden of proof does occur and is certainly not unique. Think, for example, of consumer purchases. The PVV believes that a reversal of the burden of proof in the Mining Act is a good idea. Disputes between a mining company and citizens normally involve economically unequal parties. It is almost impossible for a citizen to prove that damage was caused by an earthquake. Conversely, the NAM has a lot of money, people and expertise to prove that damage was not caused by an earthquake. This economic inequality is a good argument for us to reverse the burden of proof. A second argument is that such a provision also applies in our neighbouring countries and does not cause problems there. Apparently it works pretty well in practice and doom stories seem to us at least premature. A third argument for reversing the burden of proof is that the Minister, despite repeated and intrusive requests from among others the PVV, did not resort to a practice of generous damages and a large buy-out scheme. Citizens still have to wait years for damage repair and repair. That situation is very undesirable. On the basis of these three arguments, the PVV is in principle in favour of the amendment to reverse the burden of proof. Last year in the gas extraction debate, unlike the PvdA, we also voted in favour of a motion of this kind. I am happy with this turnaround of the PvdA, although I still have to see it, because the PvdA's voting behaviour regarding the gas crane was a bit different from the PvdA sound in the media.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u9	Mr. Chairman. GroenLinks has, of course, been very interested in the climate issue since it was founded and has always been involved in mining matters. Recently, geopolitics have also taken off in connection with energy policy, especially oil and gas extraction. In the past, about ten or twelve years ago, we stood up for residents of mining activities in Kazakhstan and Colombia and for example for the Aboriginals in Australia because of uranium extraction, but today we can also put the Groningers in that list of people. Groningen is therefore a subject that is very much on the agenda. Five years ago, we had a major oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico, killing 16 people. BP has had to pay large amounts of damage there, but the real damage to the ocean, to nature and to employment in that coastal area is not yet near recovery. And if it ever works out, the researchers say it's going to take 30, 40, 50 years. Of course, you hope that such a great disaster never happens more often and that it really learns from it, but the Netherlands is not on a planet other than the United States and Europe is on the same planet. So it is a very good thing to tighten up the rules across Europe. I therefore support the way in which the Minister intends to implement it, both at sea and on land. One of the side effects of this major disaster in America was the intertwinedness of decision-making between policy makers in ministries, supervisory bodies, implementation and connection between owner BP and subcontractors. You saw some sort of swinging-door careers there. Someone sat there for a year and then in another position, followed by the subsequent position. I know that at a later stage we are debating the cabinet response to the report of the Research Council for Security, so I will not go into that further, but when it comes to better and independent control we saw the same system of intertwined decision-making around the BP disaster. There were also recommendations to see how all countries should untie this. In the United States, too, it has been started by extending this supervision further at a distance. Thank you, therefore, to the committee for drawing up the directive, which will be implemented five years after the disaster. We support the Minister in that, as I said. We do have a few more questions. What rules does the Minister not want to apply to the country and what is its motivation? Is it only the gas storage that is covered by the Major Accidents Decision (Brzo) and not by the Mining Act? Does that also apply to waste water injections and where are they? Don't they like the Brzo too? What about the above-ground storage of condensate? Is that under the Brzo or under this arrangement? Physical supervision by State Monitoring of Mines (SodM) is an essential part of the proposed improvement of safety that we support. The measure should not lead to paper security, as colleagues have already said, but should really lead to greater security in practice. Is the SodM able to inspect all holes and wells on land and at sea with the desired regularity? How many qualified inspectors does the SodM have right now? Can the Minister give us any insight as to whether the human force and the mission are in balance? How often does a drilling platform at sea receive an average visit from a SodM inspector? Next, I have a question about access to information and public participation. This Minister has also confirmed that the Aarhus Convention is an important treaty. It has also been mentioned in the Maastricht Declaration, under which Secretary of State Mansveld has put its name to ensure that environmental information in particular is easily accessible to residents, groups and the media. GroenLinks has already asked if there are more possibilities to deliver open data. At that time, colleagues also said that this is difficult for the SodM because it puts enormous pressure on a small organisation. What is the state of play and is there already a roadmap to gradually make more of the official reports of the SodM and timely applications that are under discussion more and more public? If the independent expert is on the payroll of the company he controls, I'm afraid that could lead to false safety. I would like to hear from the Minister how he sees it and what safeguards are in place for that. For example, in the discussion about the gas extraction around Groningen it took a long time in the consensus approach with people from their own companies. At some point there were e-mails on WikiLeaks in which you saw how many years have been tried by different bodies, within research institutes and inspection, to align. How are we going to prevent that? Suppose we have a drilling platform at sea that gives us trouble. What's changed now? How does the Minister expect these independent experts to do this differently, after they have learned from the experience, both with BP and in the Netherlands with Groningen? I can remember the time when I, as a starting GroenLinkser here in the Chamber, criticized this and that there was still a huge sentiment of pride on Shell as our national company, thinking that Shell had been convicted in another country but would not do it to us anyway. So how do they look at a company like Shell? The certainty that oil and gas companies can pay for the damage caused by major accidents is also an important element in the law. We also support this, because there will only be one small example, I am thinking of some of the sub-businesses in Cuadrilla which want to drill for shale gas and which, with little equity, causes a problem and then cannot pay the costs. Because British Petroleum has paid $28 billion in compensation and can still be fined up to 18 billion. So you have to have very deep pockets for that. I wonder what amounts, what range, what bandwidth the minister is thinking? What are sufficient resources for a mining company? Can the SodM determine this? And on the basis of what directive should the SodM examine the finances of such a mining company? And what about European? New requirements are being imposed to improve the safety of oil and gas extraction. As far as we are concerned, therefore, the directive must be fully implemented, but it is not the only thing that is being implemented. Colleagues also mentioned that we are now discussing the Mining Act for the first time. This is the first opportunity for the Chamber to make proposals for this and to ensure that the Mining Act is more in line with the demands of today. There was earlier, at least two years ago, a motion under which several names were given, but so was mine. I believe she belonged to Mrs. Van Veldhoven. She smiles at me nicely, but she doesn't know. In the motion it was about a better place for municipalities, provinces and possibly water boards. We have made a number of amendments in preparation and consulted with colleagues from the PvdA. If it is right, I have not yet seen it. We have a joint amendment to ensure that the advisory role of municipalities, provinces and water boards is better anchored. We have further examined the grounds for rejection. When can the Minister say that we really should not honour a particular application, whether it is at sea or on land? What's the Minister's test on? My colleague from the PvdA will say a few words about this later. We have a joint amendment on this. My last large group of questions is about the independence of the supervisor. I've already asked if the supervisor has sufficient capacity. How do you anchor that independence? I know what the minister's preferred model is, but I want to know from him if any of these other possibilities have been considered? Has the Minister made an assessment of pros and cons? Can the Minister give us some insight into what it would be like if, for example, it became an independent administrative body or an agency, or if you still put it in a ministry? Did the Minister pass through these various possibilities? I have here a quote from the Scientific Council for Government Policy. I would like a response from the Minister. "An example of an impartial attitude in a reflective role is the action of State surveillance of the Mines around the earthquake in the province of Groningen." I would like a reflection from the Minister on that. How does he see that right now? Of course, this minister always has a moving insight, but can he share any of that with the Chamber? The reversal of the burden of proof is an incredibly important point to me. I would like to congratulate my colleague from the Animal Party who has drawn on this for a very long time. We supported this motion with great enthusiasm at the time, especially after the work visit in Limburg, where it became much clearer to me that the countries around us have had this for a long time. This is partly because the law is based on "equality of arms": both parties must be able to achieve their rights equally. Because that is incredibly complicated in the case of a citizen with tears in the foundation and a large oil company, a lot of countries have said: we are turning that assumption around. Those countries say that the real causal evidence does not work in either case, but the law requires it to be made plausible and then, if you are near a mining activity, it is up to the mining organization to show that it is really unlikely that this damage is caused by mining. So that also supports GroenLinks. I'll see if I missed anything. I have one last question. The entire oil and gas production is a finite industry. If we take ourselves seriously with our objective of having a CO-neutral energy supply by 2050, this is an industry that should gradually disappear. I would like to know from the Minister how he anticipates the phasing-out. We're building up security right now. That is important, but at some point we have to get rid of this industry altogether. Then safety is guaranteed anyway, but the question is what happens to the wells that remain. Some of them will have to be guarded for eternity. How do we look at damage that may occur 30 years after the last mining activity in the Netherlands is completed?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u10	Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing some amendments to the Mining Act. The cabinet's proposals are to reduce the risk of major accidents in oil and gas activities. The terrible accident in the Gulf of Mexico in 2010 with deaths and injuries and serious environmental damage is the reason for the changes. The Labour Party supports the cabinet's proposals. There are a number of other points that we would like to discuss today. We want to take advantage of this debate to amend the law on a number of other points. I come to a very old wish of the Labour Party: I have prepared an amendment of 13 December 2001 by my colleague Witteveen-Hevinga, which first expresses this wish. We want to amend the Mining Act so that there will be a reversal of the burden of proof. In recent years, we have had several exchanges of views on this subject. Many people in Groningen cannot get a quick and fair handling of the damage. Together with the GroenLinks group, we have deployed a Groninger gas ombudsman to improve this. We've set up a Safe Living Center. We have set up a dialogue table. We have a special group of people for the distressing cases. Steps have been taken forward, but these steps have not been enough. In fact, the Association Eigen Huis states that 80% of all the people she has consulted on this issue feel that the damage is not being adequately dealt with at the moment. In the reports of the Groninger gas ombudsman Leendert Klaassen, that percentage is smaller, but still significant. We therefore propose to reverse the burden of proof in the event of damage caused by mining activities.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u11	Mr Vos mentioned a number of organisations in the process which were responsible for improving and strengthening this process. Mr Vos has been active in the implementation. Sometimes, of course, it is necessary to give such organisations time to get their activities to full maturity. This is without prejudice to the fact that there are many complaints that need to be taken seriously. Can Mr Vos tell me how many objections or requests for support have been made to the Technical Committee on Soil Movement (Tcbb)?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u12	Like Mr Bosman, I have been to Groningen on a regular basis. When you ring the doorbell and say they can complain to the Tcbb, they often don't know what it's about. Many people in Groningen feel that if they knock at an instance, they are sent from the cabinet to the wall. When I mention the list of places where people can go, I sometimes get lost myself. Bottomline is that in communication with NAM and with the Centre Secure Living people are discouraged. I remember sitting with Mr Bosman or his predecessor in a home in Groningen. The frustration, the anger, the fear, the uncertainty is dripping off those people. We sat at that kitchen table together. People just can't get through that bureaucracy. Too many thresholds are raised by the NAM and by the public authorities. It is inherent in public authorities that there is bureaucracy. As a result, people simply do not get out where they want to get out, namely that their damage will be compensated.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u13	That would mean this is the silver bullet. In the past, people have not actively started their own process. In my opinion, the Technical Committee on Soil Movement is very low-threshold. There's no high cost. Every effort is being made to do it as well as possible. There's been four applications. Four from 2012! I regret that we are all in the Chamber making decisions to improve it, but then we are not giving those improvements time to prove ourselves. We don't remind people of all the possibilities that exist. We are now coming up with far-reaching legislation, of which we have yet to see whether it will become final. We do that while we have the resources at our disposal. People can go already! Let's get to work on their problem. From 2012 four from Noord-Groningen, from the Netherlands, arrived. I'm really wondering what you think you're gonna solve and who you think is gonna get better.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u14	I have personally received dozens of e-mails from people with complaints and I can now hear you say outside the microphone that you also received them. The fact that the Tccb only got four can mean a number of things. It may mean that people have no confidence in the Tccb or that people cannot remember or understand the name "Technical Committee on Soil Movement." It may mean that they do not find the way to that committee or that they are already so discouraged by the whole process that they do not get to knock on the door at all. The tone of the e-mails I'm getting you also know that as a Member of Parliament you sometimes get pertinently formulated e-mails in your box.... is quite desperate. It's just really nasty what happens to people there. When I come home to these people, I see how frustrated they are. The time we were together with a family, the problem could be solved immediately, because we stopped by. But there are tens of thousands of people in Groningen with damage and it is not well arranged for them. That's what we can do about each other here today. I would have liked your group to join in this reversal of the burden of proof, which is quite normal in Germany, France, England and all kinds of other countries around us.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u15	We are going to wait for legislation on which the Council of State still has to advise, when we already have the opportunity to support those people. I'm sorry we're gonna be looking for something to say "it's gonna get better." I think it is important that we give room to the resources we already offer, for which we take responsibility and which we as a Chamber consider important. We have to take responsibility and try to solve it like this first. If every time after three months the Chamber says that it has not been resolved and that we are going to come up with something else, I find that very worrying. In doing so, we undermine the process and, in fact, cause all the unrest. We don't give the people responsible for those resources enough time and space. As a result, everyone is going to wait and see.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u16	I do not know what Mr Bosman is proposing, but I do not need another delay, another investigation or another measure to keep the people in Groningen on a leash.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u17	Mr Bosman, I see that you feel addressed, but first Mr Vos can finish his sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u18	The Chamber has said almost to the point that we want the damage settlement to be arranged. We have also said almost to the point that citizens' confidence must be restored. If we have the chance to achieve this through legislation, we must do so. That is the position of my group and that is why I have tabled the amendment. Since 2001, we have been looking for a majority in favour of an amendment to this effect, and I would ask you once again to join us, because then we will give people the tools they can finally get their rights with.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u19	It is totally inappropriate for Mr Vos to say to the VVD that we are leading people on. I have made it clear that the legal remedies are in place. They're already there, but you're obviously denying that. You're saying something else is necessary because these people can't do it. I think that is really wrong, because there are those resources. All the resources are there, but there are still zero court cases. All these resources are there. You may say 'I am going to make new legislation and Mr Bosman is waiting for research', but that is not right, because Mr Bosman is not waiting for research. You'll have to take your legal text to the Council of State in a moment to make sure it's waterproof. It remains to be seen whether this text can be formulated in such a way that the Council of State will also ask how the space is limited, who can apply and whether there can be a precedent. Will it also apply to windmills, for example? All that sort of thing is gonna be questioned and investigated. This legislation, this amendment, is going to delay it. People might be waiting for it. I would regret that very much, because all the resources are now available: legal remedies, research resources and support tools. I believe that the people of Groningen should make full use of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u20	I don't understand it so well again. It's actually very simple. We currently have a great deal of resources for the people of Groningen. Those resources will continue to exist. When it comes to a trial, a citizen must in principle prove that the damage to his or her home was caused by mining activities. The amendment does not go to the Council of State at all. We can raise our hands here. If we have 76 votes in favour, the amendment will be adopted and if not, it will not be adopted. The way in which we have established in the past, namely that the resident must prove what is going on, is reversed. This means that the mining company will now have to prove that the citizen is wrong. This is happening on many points in the neighbouring countries. Also in the Netherlands it is not uncommon and is more common. The people in Groningen are entitled to this and that is why I propose it today, together with the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u21	I did indeed put a question to the authors of the amendment in my term. I think I hear an answer to that question in reply to Mr Bosman. Do the proposers not think that it might be useful to ask the Council of State to carry out a quick test? Of course, it should not lead to delays so that the careful implementation of this principle, which we support, which Mr Smaling and myself want, can be ensured?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u22	I know Mrs Van Veldhoven from the D66 group as someone who always wants to take a lot of responsibility, sometimes even so much responsibility that she would almost like to sit in the legislative chair of the cabinet. Now there is a chance to be a co-legislator as a Chamber; we have that right here in the Netherlands. Then you can just take that chance. Then you don't have to go to the Council of State at all. That's not a usance. We do do so in the case of legislative proposals, but there is no need for that in an amendment and certainly not in the case of such a relatively simple procedure. I do not think it is in the interests of the citizens of Groningen that further difficulation in the process should take place. I believe that citizens in Groningen are entitled to this reversal of the burden of proof and have been helped in doing so. I would like to realize that as soon as possible, because people have been in trouble there long enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u23	I would ask Mr Vos to ignore the qualifications and focus on the substance of the matter. A number of questions, on the definition and on precedent, are relevant. Once again, my group supports the principle. The legal position of the people in Groningen vis-à-vis the NAM needs to be strengthened. I do think it would be helpful if we allowed the Council of State to take a quick test on this: have we overlooked anything, would the Council still recommend a clarification? I think we all have an interest in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u24	I believe that the citizens of Groningen have an interest in reversing the burden of proof. That's not very complicated. You now have the opportunity, unlike in 2001, to support this amendment and to help the people of Groningen. I hope that you belong to the people who will raise their hands and support this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u25	Compliments to Mr Vos that he is now in the right camp. Welcome to the club. It sounds like music to me how he talks about Groningen. I would like to point out to him, however, that it is more supportive than critically intended that the amendment should really be waterproof. Later in the First Chamber, where there is more legal expertise in itself, you will not be able to amend such an amendment. When I was sitting there myself, I sometimes noticed that laws came in with some sloppy amendments. There's nothing you can do about it. I believe that it is now in the interest of us and in particular of the Groningen people that the amendment is completely waterproof. If we are not clear about this in this debate, I would suggest to Mr Vos that he take another good look at it. Does he agree with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u26	I consider Mr Smaling's suggestion of the SP to be extremely valuable. I will take it very much to heart. I invite him to discuss further any changes that may result from this debate so that we can amend the amendment. Perhaps that way I can facilitate him in the wishes that live with him.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u27	I would suggest that we take a look at how the debate is going. At the end of the day, we will see how tight the amendment is and then we will be able to take a decision on it, but basically the support of the SP is there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u28	Is it true that this amendment is the same as in 2001, when the exact wording, consequences, scope and application were looked at very thoroughly?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u29	I am afraid to mention an exact percentage, but I would say that 80% of the amendment is similar.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u30	Is it also true that Professor Van Dunné has also taken a good look at the application of this amendment this time? My group is also struggling with this. We actually want it very quickly. I would be sorry if the Council of State was a delaying factor. That is why I thought: if it was really looked at thoroughly in 2001, including by a professor in this area, it could be sufficient to persuade the Chamber to decide now as quickly as possible. How does Mr Vos view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u31	For me, the issue is quite simple. The Second Chamber of the States-General is a co-legislator. We have more than enough expertise in the house. Mrs van Tongeren knows all the official support with which we can prepare this kind of legislative proposal, but I will not dwell on that. As far as I am concerned, therefore, the substance of this is not at stake. That is why I would like to table this relatively simple amendment, on the understanding that I have taken Mr Smaling's comments very seriously. Mr President, can I continue my speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u32	If you feel like it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u33	Yeah, I'm excited about that. In addition to that amendment, which I have said enough about in the answer to the questions, we have prepared two other amendments together with the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance. We would like citizens and local authorities in areas where mining activities take place to have more say. In the report on the earthquake problem in Groningen, the Research Council for Security (OVV) drew attention to the citizen's perspective. The OVV has recommended that this be taken into account in the decision-making process by the province and the municipality. After all, they are leaders with a democratic mandate. Those are also the people who know how citizens in their area feel about mining activities. In the eyes of the PvdA, it is important to lay this down explicitly and in the short term in the Mining Act. This need stems from the damaged confidence of citizens in the earthquake-stricken area in the state government and the gas operator. We have often talked here about restoring confidence. This is an opportunity to add the deed to the word. That's what we're happy to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u34	I would like to give Mr Vos the opportunity to add another point to the speech on the confidence of citizens in the operation of gas. I have also asked Minister Kamp whether he can clarify today in the sense that not elsewhere in Groningen the gas tap will be opened as it closes in Loppersum. Does the Labour Party support that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u35	The Labour Party stood and stands on the view that the 33 billion cub to be won according to the Labour Party also applies for the rest of the year. I maintain that position, so it is unthinkable that the gas extraction should go up again. So we will remain at the current level of 16.5 billion for this six-month period and 16.5 billion for next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u36	Mr Vos does not answer my question. Moreover, the Labour Party did not wish to support any motions which really bring down the ceiling, but we still hope that this will happen. My specific question was this. Now the crane closes in Loppersum, but if you would like to reach the ceiling of 33 billion, it might have to be opened elsewhere. Does Mr Vos exclude that the gas tap outside Loppersum will open further to make up for the loss of extraction in Loppersum?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u37	It seems that there is still a great deal of uncertainty about this point. In 2014, Loppersum won 17 billion cubs. In 2015 this was limited to 3 billion cub by decision of the minister and the cabinet. Eventually, 2.5 billion kuub was won, of which 0.5 billion kuubin December and 2 billion kuub in the rest of the year. I'm going to elaborate on that to show you the proportions. The extraction at Loppersum has been reduced by 80% by this cabinet. The extraction of gas in general in Groningen has been reduced in recent years from a scandalous 54 billion cube in 2013 to 42.5 billion cube, to 39.4 billion cube, to the 16.5 billion cube, which we have agreed on for this six months. The Labour Party has said that, looking ahead to the second half of the year, it is unthinkable that more will be won than that 16.5 billion cube. Mrs Van Veldhoven has already said that she wants to hear this and to record it in a motion. I didn't sign that motion. For this six months it is 16.5 billion cube and I have already said that it is unthinkable that we should go up for the second half of the year. So we have adopted a completely consistent line. Mrs Van Veldhoven now says that it is going up elsewhere because in Loppersum that 3 billion cuub can be won less. That is the ceiling agreed by the Minister, of which 2.5 billion has been won, and which the Council of State is right to say now that it should go to the lowest possible level for security of supply and security of supply. So it's going to be somewhere between zero and 2.5 billion cubs, because that's what we're actually talking about. Materially there is a factual difference, but the argument behind it is very important: it has to go to the level necessary for security of supply. If you read that correctly, you will automatically go to the rest of Groningen and you will say that the level of security of supply must be leading. According to the engineers who have watched this, at the moment that is 33 billion cube plus 2 billion cube for emergencies. That position had and holds the Labour Party. I am strongly encouraged by the Council of State's statement that this level of security and security of supply must be maintained. The story of Mrs Van Veldhoven, which is won more than elsewhere, is an interesting way of thinking, but unfortunately that kite does not go on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u38	I understand that Mr Vos needs a lot of words because he cannot answer yes or no clearly. I also note that, where Mr Vos is very proud of the reduction achieved by this cabinet, he forgets to mention that this cabinet first increased production before it was adjusted downwards. The question remains what the minimum level of security of supply is. In the reports it goes from 12 billion cuub to 35 billion cuub. Why does Mr Vos insist that this should be 35 billion cube? Even if it has to be up to 35 billion cuubs and if you can win 3 billion cuubs less in Loppersum, the question remains whether you are going to win more elsewhere. I am not getting an answer to that, but a whole speech. I would like to hear a simple yes or no on the question of whether the 3 billion cuub that may be won less by the judge in Loppersum is not won anywhere else. I think that question is simple to answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u39	It is quite a story and it is not as simple as Mrs Van Veldhoven is proposing. It's not like the judge said the 3 billion cuub shouldn't be won. The judge has said that the Minister has placed a cap at 3 billion cubic metres and we believe that the lowest possible level must be maintained which is necessary for security of supply and security. Probably that level is lower; in reality that is 2.5 billion cubic metres. If Mrs Van Veldhoven now says that there is going to be more winning elsewhere, that is very short. She does not know at all how much is to be won in Loppersum from the point of view of security of supply and security. Perhaps we can hear the Minister say a little more about this next week and perhaps he can say something about it today. But we don't know that at all. When Mrs Van Veldhoven says that more must be won, I say: it is not. On the basis of that 39.4 billion cube, like the cabinet that originally calculated, you could argue that. But the position of the Labour Party was and is that we have a maximum of 33 billion cuub. The difference between 39.4 billion cuub and 33 billion cuub is much more than the difference between 2.5 billion cuub, 3 billion cuub and zero. Mrs Veldhoven can calculate that, too. If she doesn't, I'd like to recalculate it for her in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u40	I do not immediately need a lesson to be calculated by Mr Vos, as that is still creative mathematics in his own direction. The point is that I am asking Mr Vos for a position of principle, namely whether he is excluding what is going on in Loppersum from being added elsewhere. I get a whole story, but at this point it's not clear. I will table a motion on this later. We shall then see whether the Labour Party supports this principle.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u41	Still a try. I have one question, which should preferably be answered by yes or no. Does the PvdA simply exclude the 3 billion increase elsewhere in the field?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u42	I'll try to make it easier. A maximum of 16.5 billion cubic metres has been set for this six months. That ceiling was, is and will continue to apply and that is done with it. So within that 16.5 billion, gas can be extracted and not above that. The ruling of the Council of State will, of course, have to be honoured by this cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u43	I note that the PvdA is avoiding the question and simply not answering it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u44	I note that there are apparently many statements and qualifications and few arguments in this Chamber. Colleges of mayor and aldermen and lectures of dikes, helm councils and deputy states should be given the opportunity to issue a serious opinion, which we expect will improve the involvement of the population in decision-making. Government and operator will therefore feel more strongly the need to take into account the interests of citizens who experience the effects of oil and gas extraction. We also have a third amendment. The Labour Party would like to see the importance of environmental and nature protection, safety, public health and water extraction and the possibility of damage caused by soil movement in the assessment of the permit application as a ground for refusal. Why do we want that so badly? Sometimes in Parliamentary debates, the Minister states that he is not legally free to refuse a permit because of obstacles in mining legislation and regulations. Secretary of State Dijksma has also indicated in the past that she could not honour a permit to win salt because the Mining Act did not allow it. That law currently contains only a limited number of grounds for refusal and withdrawal. In practice, only the protection of nature is regulated in so far as it is laid down in the protection of Natura 2000 sites. Other important social values, such as environmental values, which also have to do with landscape values such as openness and the need to maintain good groundwater and good drinking water quality, are not grounds for refusal when reviewing mining exploitation and extraction permits. With this amendment, which we are submitting together with GroenLinks, the Labour Party wants to ensure that the importance of environmental and nature protection, safety and public health can serve as a ground for refusal when assessing the application for authorisation. The central point is that the quality of life must not deteriorate. The NAM indicated yesterday that residents outside the contour Earthquake area, i.e. outside the area we have described as an earthquake area, can also contact the NAM in case of earthquake damage. I compliment the NAM for that. That may well be the case, after the criticism we have made today. However, I still find it strange that we agree on a contour area and that people living outside have earthquake damage while they do not live in the contour area for earthquake damage. Is the Minister prepared to adapt the contour area, also in the light of the NAM's excellent proposal to give citizens more opportunities?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u45	Why has Mr Vos, the author of the amendment, not laid down these contours in his amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u46	We are not preparing an amendment on this. I asked the Minister to present the cabinet's position on this matter. It may well be that we are still tabling an amendment. If you're interested, I can draw it up with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u47	In reversing the burden of proof, you lay down quite an obligation. Then it's useful to know who's all involved in the mining business. It is quite cheap to say now: the Minister should start pointing out the contours. Mr Vos himself states that there is a reversal of the burden of proof, he has given serious thought to it and talked to sensible people. What are the contours for that reversal of the burden of proof?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u48	I would like to thank the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats for their compliments on the drafting of our amendment on the reversal of the burden of proof. With regard to the contours as they have now been established, I have found that the NAM has said: the people who live outside that area can also come to us. For that, my compliments to the NAM. I asked the Minister once again to state whether it might not be wise to adjust these contours. I am happy to wait for the answer and naturally reserve the right to table amendments to that effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u49	But I understand that you didn't think about the contours when you came up with the amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u50	As with Mr Bosman, there are thousands of thoughts every day about legislative proposals, amendments and motions. This is very often done in conjunction with other groups. That's a creative process. This idea has even been discussed before in my group. We normally do not make any statements about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u51	But we got that scoop. I call Mrs Ouwehand of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u52	Mr. Chairman. The bill before us has its origins in the Gulf of Mexico disaster. There has been a huge environmental disaster because of oil drilling. The Animal Party always thought that oil drilling, whether under land or under the sea, posed risks. This tragic accident, with a huge impact on the environment and the marine ecosystem, has awakened the world, including the European Union, and that is why today we are discussing the law implementing the amended, slightly strengthened European directive in Dutch legislation. The Animal Party supports that. It's a good thing the bill's there. There are proposals which allow the risks to people and the environment to be better taken into account in the applications. So we're happy with this step, but it's just a step. For as far as we are concerned, this cabinet does not yet fully recognise the precise risks to man and the environment of mining activities, such as drilling for oil and gas under the sea. The Animal Party has therefore just tabled an amendment to agree with each other and to regulate in this law that protected natural areas are also truly protected natural areas. That's not a new plea from the Party for Animals. We believe that, for example, in a protected nature reserve, you should not have a bottom-catching fishery. Because then what is the protection value of that nature reserve? Let's be clear about that. We also think it's necessary. Indeed, there is a Nature Protection Act, under which you should not allow disruptive activities in those Natura 2000 sites. Yet we can see that salt extraction takes place in that vulnerable area of the Wadden Sea. While the internationally agreed guidelines oblige us to improve the area for the species that we need to protect there, the cabinet prefers to take risks with the mudflats there after a long discussion. Otherwise, the environment of a number of protected species will really deteriorate. As much as I would like it and as much as the VVD always says that the implementation of the Birds and Habitats Directives has gone way too far, it does not even protect nature effectively. The cabinet always gets away with saying: for the time being we expect no effects. If those effects are there and those plates are down, it is too late, unless the minister here can make it plausible that he himself can push up a sunken Wadden plate again, but I don't think he has those abilities, although I think he is capable of a lot. The Animal Party therefore proposes not to issue new permits for mining activities in protected natural areas, Natura 2000 sites but also in the Wadden area in the broad sense, with world heritage status. One of the most important issues in today's debate is the reversal of the burden of proof. Indeed, the Animal Party, together with the Labour Party colleague Jan Vos, has tabled an amendment proposing to reverse the burden of proof for damage caused by mining activities. That idea's not new. Honor to whom credit is due: it was the Labour Party who proposed this amendment at the end of 2001 when considering the amendment of the Mining Act. What happened then is happening now: the Dutch Government simply does not want to. She doesn't want this and she doesn't want it. She comes up with all kinds of arguments to keep the Chamber quiet. That's what happened then. The then Minister Jorritsma said: we are not going to do that, but instead we are going to set up the Technical Committee on Soil Movement; people who, because of the mining activities of, in this case, the NAM damage to their homes, can go to that committee and then that damage is simply compensated. The majority of the Chamber then said: okay, we're gonna try. That was 13 years ago. We have to note that a lot of people who have been injured, people who have not asked for their house to be full of cracks or are damaged much worse as a result of Shell's gas extraction, are not compensated for their damage or are in any case having great difficulty in getting it done properly and carefully. People are incredibly burdened. Again: these are people who hadn't asked for their house to be damaged their safe place they're proud of and where they've spent time, energy and money to crush it. And then they're gonna have to learn, too. The Animal Party finds this scandalous and also believes that the NAM has called it on itself that today we are regulating as quickly as possible with an amendment to a law that is not really about it. The cabinet's objections do not convince the Party for Animals. In principle, "whoever demands, proves" applies, but Mrs Klever pointed out that there is a legal provision that allows for an exception. The cabinet did not respond to this in the reports on the amendment initially tabled. The cabinet did raise all kinds of other objections, but the amendment that was tabled was based on the situation in Germany. There's no problem there. Unless the Cabinet can raise all kinds of reasonable objections today which would prevent this from working, the Animal Party sees no reason to have another test carried out by the Council of State; I say this in response to a question from Mrs Van Veldhoven. Unfortunately, I cannot escape the impression that the whole idea that this amendment would create unworkable situations is a bit the frame of the cabinet, which simply does not want to do so. The Minister now faces a majority in the Chamber. I hope, therefore, that in response to the new amendment tabled, I shall just say as it is, Mr President, that he can actually state whether there are any objections. I don't think so. If there are any objections, he'll have to come up with a good story and we'll see. At the moment we really do not see any reason to think that there would be problems with the demarcation and that there would be a problem with what we mean by'mining'. I think the VVD asked if this would also apply to windmills. I do not think that windmills are mining, but if anyone doubts that, I would say: look at the dictionary and case law; there is no problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u53	First of all, of course, I would like to congratulate the amendment which has so much substance, but it concerns the people of Groningen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u54	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u55	Those people need to be treated for their damage. You have just said that a committee has been set up and that no use is being made of it. I regret that, because we have all given this serious thought, and we all considered the use of that committee to be serious. There are still resources that can be used and there are also opportunities to point out to people that they can use those resources and that if they do not then they can always go to court. An amendment is a piece of legislation. That's not just something you say: we'll see when it comes back and what objections there are. My question was not whether this also applies to windmills. It's the precedent. There can always be a precedent effect. There can always be a judge who says: there are people who suffer from the shadow of the blow and the humming of the windmills and the limitation of their view by those windmills; why do they not have the right to a reverse burden of proof? These are matters that need to be seriously considered, because this can have consequences. The same applies to the demarcation, which I consider crucial. How do you get a good line? Who's in this? I am very happy that the NAM is now looking outside those contours. I'm afraid that won't happen again if you delimit this. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u56	I'm not so afraid of that precedent. I think that judges in the Netherlands will be very well informed of what is being proposed here and of the history we know here. The VVD cannot ignore the fact that a relationship has been established between winning gas and creating earthquakes: the more you win, the greater the risk of earthquakes and the heavier they will be. We've got hard data on that. Referring to what is laid down in the law, we therefore say: in principle, you have to prove when you demand, but there are situations where there is so much reason to suppose that economic activity will cause damage to people who have not asked for it, that it is now reasonable to legally establish that in this case the burden of proof will be reversed. These are the situations that are the subject of this amendment. After all, NAM had the opportunity for years to ensure that there were no problems with the handling of the damage. The NAM didn't do that. I am not afraid of a precedent, because judges in the Netherlands will also look at the principle that if you have damage and demand something, you are usually the one who has to prove that things are different. In cases other than mining, there is not at all such a file that the judge can say: well, that's what I'm going to do here. The court should therefore actively waive the principle enshrined in the Code of Civil Procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u57	Mr Bosman, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u58	But Mrs Ouwehand has just indicated that that possibility is always there. What I regret is this. We have a lot of legal remedies in the Netherlands. Why didn't anyone go to court? Why didn't anyone ask for a judge's ruling?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u59	I was a little surprised when Mr Bosman interrupted the Labour Party. I don't know if the VVD reads the reports of the Independent Counselor, to whom people can report if they don't handle their damages properly. Those reports aren't easy. I'm really freaked out. The number of complaints is in the hundreds. The complaints about the NAM are literally that there is insufficient empathic treatment, that there is no response to e-mails or phone calls, that previous commitments are withdrawn and that major damage is caused as a result of late maintenance. I take the Independent Councilman's reports seriously. I think it's really necessary to say to the NAM: you solve it and if not, you can prove yourself that it's not because of your activity.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u60	Very good. You're continuing... but so is Mrs. Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u61	Thank you for this initiative of the Party for Animals, in which the PvdA has been joined. Will the reverse burden of proof also apply retroactively to those who have already suffered major damage to the NAM?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u62	I'd love to, but legally, that's gonna be incredibly difficult. I therefore welcome the question, because my appeal to the Minister is to get the existing cases out of the fire, especially if this amendment comes into force. As a chamber, we've made that call many times. I myself want to go so far that the Minister simply takes care of the damage and compensates, and the government recovers the damage on the NAM. This could possibly come back in a second-term motion. However, the legal retroactive regulation of these cases becomes very complex. I do give it to people, so I say with pain in my heart that this amendment does not regulate it. I hope that we will be able to ensure, as soon as possible for future cases, that they do not have to run after the NAM in order to get their damages compensated. Sadly, that's what it takes, because a lot of tremors have been predicted. For the cases that are already very poignant, I call once again on the Minister to really solve them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u63	Thank you for this clear answer. I assume Mrs Ouwehand has already considered whether she could have included this in an amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u64	Yeah, I've been looking into that, but that's gonna get really complicated, because you're gonna get the question of how far back you're gonna go. I wish I could, but it didn't work out. If the CDA could shine a bright light on this which would allow us to regulate it, I am always willing to think with it. However, my analysis so far has been that it cannot be done retroactively. If the amendment is adopted, the signal from the legislator is clear. I hope that this will put additional pressure on the solution of the existing situations.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u65	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u66	I have already said a great deal about what I would like to explain about the amendment. It's not a second too soon. Mrs Mulder's question is quite right. There's a lot of people in deep shit. The predictions for Groningen are just bad. No one here can claim that we can limit the misery for Groningen today, tomorrow or next week. What happened there means that there will still be tremors. However, we do have an impact on the risk of the number and severity of the tremors. So our call to do the best we can to reduce that remains. However, Groningen is expected to face tremors for many years to come. This only makes it more urgent to ensure that the burden of proof lies with the NAM as soon as possible. Then we do not charge people with broken houses and also that huge tax to go after a compensation for the damage.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u67	I would just like to say that we have a great visit from Daniel and Vincent. They are the children of Sariëtte Snellaert, the guardian of the Chamber who escaped us three years ago and to whom we often remember with great pleasure. I welcome you all today and hope you have a nice day here at your mother's old place.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u68	Mr. Chairman. The reason for this EU directive is the Gulf of Mexico disaster. Many remember this disaster: an uncontrolled escape of oil that occurred after an explosion on a platform. Eleven people died and over a period of three months millions of barrels of oil flowed into the sea. The damage was enormous. This is what we want to avoid in Europe, and that is why a European approach to offshore oil and gas extraction is also desirable. The purpose of the present legislative amendment is to strengthen supervision. In addition to the supervision of the sea, the cabinet opts for the same surveillance framework on land. The Minister is right to point out that administrative burdens arise from the obligation to carry out independent inspections of installations and work programmes for drilling activities. He follows the advice of State surveillance of the Mines to do so on land. The CDA supports this complementary national legislation. In the written round of questions, our group considered the role of State surveillance of the Mines. With regard to the proposal before us, my group still has questions about this SodM. For the CDA independent supervision is a condition for mining in Dutch soil. Independent government supervision is indispensable, partly because the government itself has a major interest in the extraction of oil and gas. The Minister and the CDA Group have already discussed the independence of the SodM. That is what we are going to talk about in the discussion of the cabinet response to the report of the Research Council for Security. During this legal process, I would like to address a specific point, namely the possibility for the SodM to carry out research. The Ministry of EZ is responsible for assessing permits and extraction plans. However, for research into the extraction of fossil fuels resulting from these permits, the SodM must request approval from the Ministry of EZ. However, the Ministry of EZ may also add the benefits of the extraction to its balance sheet. Whether this affects the Ministry of EZ really doesn't matter. The appearance of conflict of interest is against the Ministry and dependence must absolutely be avoided. Unfortunately, there is no mention of this in the cabinet response to the OVV report. Maybe the Minister can go into that today. Otherwise, this will be next week's debate on the report of the Security Research Council. In the Minister's replies, I noticed that in the Netherlands only 30% of the inspection costs are charged to mining companies. In other European countries, this percentage is at least 60%. Can the Minister explain why this is so? Which tasks the SodM carries out can be attributed to the business community and which cannot? The amendment includes that the SodM should treat and investigate all confidential reports of residents and employees. My group wonders, with many in this Chamber, what about the capacity of the SodM? Do they have sufficient capacity? Can the Minister make it clear that it is all being sufficiently investigated and handled and how many reports there are? In the note following the report, I read that the SodM combines an administrative assessment of documents with physical inspections of the installations. Does the SodM periodically inspect the installations or does it only do so if there is reason to do so? Then I come to the debate on the consequences of coal mining in Limburg. The CDA has asked the Minister to work on the limitation periods, also in relation to the reverse burden of proof, which I will deal with later. The Minister then promised the CDA Group that he would look at the statute of limitations in our neighbouring countries in the investigation into mining damage in Limburg. If I understand correctly, the investigation will be completed in two years. It started in November 2013. So that research should be there in November this year. Is that right? How is the investigation of the limitation period in neighbouring countries going? Can the Minister say anything about the results of the investigation? Then I come to another issue relating to the safety of the Mining Act, namely the announced amendment of the Mining Decision and the Mining Regulation with which the fracking is to be submitted four works prior to a work programme. As gas extraction is sometimes already fracked, the CDA welcomes the fact that this change will take place as soon as possible. When does the Minister intend to make this change? My compliments to the authors of the amendment on the reversal of the burden of proof. I have just asked Mrs Ouwehand about the demarcation. I would also like an explanation from the Minister. How's he gonna do that? Why do the people in Groningen want to turn the burden of proof so badly? All those who already have problems, especially those with very large and complex damage, feel that it is not being taken seriously. That is, of course, the real problem. Can the Minister promise that he will resolve that problem as soon as possible? Of course, we also see that the earthquakes are not over yet. We are therefore sympathetic to this amendment. However, we would like to hear from the Minister why he has not yet looked at Britain and Norway. Little use has been made of the Disputes Committee, as has already been pointed out in this debate. Maybe it's because people don't hear much there. We get a lot of e-mails and signals about that. A new body was set up on 1 January for a reason. That hasn't been luxury, it just didn't go well. In his letter, the Minister stated that the Old-Hand amendment would put the disadvantaged in a worse position of proof than the current situation. In the current situation, however, disadvantaged people have to prove that the damage caused by soil movement is caused by mining activities. The amendment would ensure that the injured party only has to prove that the damage was caused by soil movement. That's not a deterioration in the position of evidence, is it? I would like to receive a response from the Minister on this point. Why does the Minister prefer the freedom of a judge to use evidence suspicions, while evidence suspicions can be regulated by law, which entails greater legal certainty? We haven't finished our mind yet. We're really open to the Minister's answers. We would like clarification on the demarcation. In the brief debate between colleagues from VVD and PvdA, it became clear that these contours have not yet been established by this amendment. Mr Smaling of the SP indicated that the First Chamber can only approve or reject it. We would very much like to clarify this amendment. We would also like to hear the Minister's views on the possible follow-up of the route along the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u69	Mr. Chairman. We are talking today about the Mining Act, especially the offshore oil and gas industry. For the VVD Group, the safety of the extraction of fossil energy is paramount. This safety is very important for people and the environment, and thus also for the support of this type of activity. It is therefore important that the Mining Act imposes clear obligations on mining plant operators. In the Netherlands strict requirements for detection and extraction apply and there is adequate supervision of the means of detection and extraction. With the implementation of this directive in the Mining Act, we maintain the careful working methods that we already knew in the Netherlands and tighten up some points. As this directive applies across Europe and reduces disparities between Member States, it promotes a level playing field in Europe. The Directive, which is implemented with this legislative amendment, concerns the safety of offshore activities at sea and does not prescribe land-based measures. The cabinet has chosen to apply a large part of the measures prescribed for offshore mining installations to land in the legislative proposal. The cabinet states that the risks are similar and local residents should also be taken into account. It therefore considers this to be justified, despite the increase in administrative burdens. Mining activities on land can also lead to major accidents. Although this in fact makes additional national policies alongside the European directive, with a limited increase in the burden on the sector, I believe that the reasoning of the cabinet can be followed in substance. The draft law provides that the costs of carrying out certain tasks of State supervision of the Mines are to be passed on to the operators of the mining works. Overall, it has been chosen not to pass on the costs associated with an application for authorisation, the assessment of a report or notification and its monitoring, and to pass on the costs for more generic activities of State supervision of the Mines. Recalculating costs is in line with government policy in order to recover the costs of public oversight from those who benefit from it as much as possible. If a specific supervisory task contributes to the public interest, public funding is justified. I believe that this has been a balanced distribution. However, I would ask the Minister to keep a close eye on keeping the supervisory costs as low as possible and the resulting increase in the burden on the sector. To my surprise, Mr Vos and Mrs Ouwehand have tabled an amendment aimed at reversing the burden of proof in the handling of damages in Groningen. I know that Mr Vos wanted it for a long time, but I can also remember that he wanted to give room for all the steps taken by the cabinet, precisely to improve the position of the Groningen people. In that idea I wholeheartedly supported him, because the VVD also believes that the damage done by the Groningen people should be dealt with with swiftly and carefully. Mr Vos indicated that the problems would have to be resolved by the end of the year and that he would otherwise come up with a reversal of the burden of proof. The Center for Safe Living has just begun. There will be a National Coordinator Groningen, there will be an Ombudsman, a Technical Committee on Soil Movement and ultimately the judge. Mr Vos has worked on many issues and knows this list better than I do. We give processes that support the Chamber and do not even welcome the opportunity to work. In my opinion, the Centre for Safe Living has already dealt with thousands of cases. This is a positive vote. How many objections have been received by the Technical Committee recently? Four for the North Netherlands. Of course, I understand Mrs Ouwenhand's remark, but there are no lawsuits. Of course, there are a lot of complaints, and I absolutely understand them. We also take these complaints seriously, but in the end you have to follow the trial and say: step to the judge, ask for a ruling and make sure that the process is improved. In short, we are now going to intervene in the legislative proposals to solve a problem for which solutions and possibilities already exist, but which, unfortunately, are not being used by anyone. I wish everyone a speedy handling of their damage, but any problems in handling can now be dealt with by the means already in place.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u70	Despite all the resources already available and all the possibilities that people have in the view of the VVD-group in the Lower House to get their damages compensated, the VVD-group in Groningen believes that the burden of proof should be reversed. I would think she would take that view for a reason. I wonder where the difference is with the almost laconic view of the VVD in the House of Representatives. It sounds a bit like the VVD in the Lower House says to the Groningers: just stand in your own strength and go to court. That's not easy when your house is full of cracks that you didn't ask for. What's so different about the VVD in Groningen? I would think: she is closer to it and perhaps has a better view of the experiences and the current situation. It calls for a reversal of the burden of proof. Why doesn't the House of Representatives go along with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u71	First of all: the VVD is absolutely not laconical in this. Let's put that first. We take this very seriously and certainly have concerns about it. But I have to say that we in this Chamber are very busy dealing with all kinds of regulations, which we do not allow to be fully developed. We make agreements with all of us and then we come back with new regulations very quickly. In doing so, we should ask ourselves what happens next. This amendment again raises questions; there are questions about the reversal of the burden of proof. The question is whether it's all so clear and whether it's all gonna work. It's gotta go through the First Chamber. I really think those people should be helped as soon as possible, but there are systems for that. It doesn't have to go straight to the judge. I don't understand why there are only four applications from the Technical Committee on Soil Movement, from 2012, 2013 and early 2014. But there are so many possibilities, so many opportunities. There are, but nobody's using them. We can then say every time: then we will see if they want to use something else. But let's all bet that the possibilities can be used, that they are accessible and supported. I think that is much more important than bringing new legislation into line.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u72	The VVD in Groningen says: the ball must lie with the NAM; the polluter, the causer, pays. But the Lower House of the VVD still says: the ball lies with the victims. They didn't ask for it. If you are hit by a motorist as a pedestrian, the suspicion of guilt lies with the motorist; you don't have to prove that as a pedestrian. Why should that not apply in this situation? 'Cause we all know those quakes are from the gas extraction, right? And we know that it's hard for people to accept that and to have to take all these steps to get the damage compensated for. We also know about the Independent Councilman: people are literally sick of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u73	That's perfectly clear. I see that, too, and I know that. But every time I see the cramp in the Chamber that it is said: then we are going to make new regulations. I find that unwise and unfortunate. Now let's see how we can help people with the resources that already exist. And of course, the NAM has to pay for the damage there is. That's what the VVD says. It doesn't mean it won't happen. I'm absolutely not afraid of that. It just has to happen. That's a responsibility of the NAM. I feel it personally. It just has to happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u74	Mr Bosman said that a lot of damage reports have already been dealt with. According to the most recent figures on the website, a total of 38,616 claims were reported. These are individual people who have had to report this themselves and then go through the whole process. 18,000 of them have been taken care of. That's about half of it. Of every two people with damage, that for one is not solved. Those aren't all damages that occurred in the last week. Mr Bosman knows that, too. The Technical Committee on Soil Movement should then provide the solution. Does Mr Bosman know in how many cases compensation is actually granted?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u75	I think that's half of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u76	It has been considerably less than half if you look at the time that committee is here. There is incredibly much rejection, just because it is said: you are at the wrong address; you must be at the waterboard or another company because it is not by us. That's not right, by the way, because if you go to court, this doesn't happen. So there's a reason people don't go there. I would like to hear from Mr Bosman what he or his group has done, and I know that he has not been a spokesperson for so long, and from now on will do, to ensure that the 18,000 people who are still waiting for their damages are helped by the Technical Committee on Soil Movement in no time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u77	The most important thing is that people register, because if people don't sign up, they can't be helped either. If you don't see formally that there's a problem, you have to ask yourself what you're going to solve. Same goes for the court hallway. Mrs Van Tongeren says: there are a lot of complaints. But why doesn't anyone go to court? Then justice and case law arise and there are all developments. You don't tell me there's no lawyer who says, "Oh, I'll take you and we'll get to work on it." Those are still the possibilities available today. We really do not need the reversal of the burden of proof, and that is what I regret about it. Now the impression is given that people would not be able to do this today. That's pertinently not true. All the resources are at their disposal, today and now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u78	I've just spoken to the Minister. In his opinion, many amendments have been tabled and questions put outside the scope of the legislative proposal. His proposal, which I would like to support if necessary, is to end today's debate and choose another time to talk further. The Minister needs some time to look at the questions and amendments and find out; he does not shake those answers. Half an hour or 45 minutes is not enough. The Minister's request is therefore to proceed with the debate at another time. I would like to discuss this proposal with the honourable Members. I would like to hear from them whether they agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u79	The Minister would like careful consideration, but he could not be entirely surprised that the Chamber is using the first moment that the Mining Act is on the agenda to make proposals. I can imagine a degree of delay, but that should not exceed a few days. We have made important proposals that have been awaited for some time. We are also too late in adopting the security measures. That should have been officially completed on 1 January of this year. So I want to make it clear that this is not going to be a long delay in the treatment of the Mining Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u80	We all have an interest in a careful debate. If the Minister needs a few days' delay, I think that is excellent, but it should not be delayed for a long time. It is precisely because we are dealing with such a wide range of amendments that I would be very grateful if the Minister could send to the Chamber his appreciation of a number of amendments in writing so that we can prepare ourselves in turn for an exchange of views with the Minister afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u81	I agree with what Mrs Van Veldhoven said.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u82	The spokeswoman of D66 put it very well. A few days' delay is fine and we would like to have an appreciation of the amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u83	That goes for us, too. We are fine with postponement, but we would prefer no more than one week.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u84	For us the same story is true: a few days' delay is fine and we are happy to get a written response from the Minister to the amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u85	No problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u86	Delay is fine, but no more than a week.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-7.u87	The rest of this debate should therefore be held next week. Does the Minister have enough time to prepare his response? I see him nodding. We will look at next week's agenda to see when this debate can be continued. I hope that the Minister will be able to appreciate the amendments before continuing the debate.
