ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u1	I give the floor to Mr Schouw.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u2	Madam President. It's nice for me, as a former resident of this beautiful house, to be back in this room of reflection. I noticed this morning that this Chamber still has the core task of'reflection' in all its fibers. First of all, I would like to express my special thanks to all the spokesmen for their contribution in the first term. They were extremely interesting and interesting contributions, which carried a lot of history. They also showed very interesting things about, for example, what politics was like in Finsterwolde and how the mayor's election took place in Belgium. There are a number of outstanding issues on which the members of the Chamber have put questions to me and to the Minister. The Minister and I will do everything in our power to answer the Chamber as best we can. It is, I think, good to remind you that I started with this initiative proposal in 2012, that it was discussed in the Lower House in 2013 and that with the arrival of the Rutte II cabinet, the destitutionalisation is part of the coalition agreement. Perhaps in abundance I note that I am standing here on behalf of the House of Representatives. This means that I have to confine myself to a number of issues that many of your Members have raised about future models and that sort of thing; the Minister has written a note on this and he will discuss it with you further.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u3	This statement also involved Mr Schouw in the documents, namely that he is here on behalf of the House of Representatives, but in the House of Representatives he himself did not say anything about the scope of the bill, although he did not speak on behalf of the House of Representatives at the time. By the way, that is curious because most of the time the House of Representatives asks whether the proposer is prepared to defend the legislative initiative. There is never, however, any mention of 'we all think so' or anything like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u4	That's what happened this time. That's a question I've been asked. Mr De Vries knows better than anyone that the initiator will then be standing in front of him and then saying that he would be happy to do so. Then it comes here in this Chamber and I try to handle it as well as possible and to discuss it with you. This bill is about whether the manner of appointment of the mayor and the King's Commissioner should be regulated in the Constitution or in the ordinary law and is therefore not about models.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u5	You're not answering my question. When you dealt with the bill in the House of Representatives, you did not say what Mr Schouw intended with this bill, what was its purpose, what it came from and what it intended. And now you feel limited because you stand here on behalf of the House of Representatives, but you didn't say anything there either.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u6	Well, I thought I might have said something, but that was particularly about the bill that is being discussed here today. That bill is about the deconstitutionalisation of the manner of appointment of the mayor and the king's commissioner. That is the subject on the agenda. That's what I also dealt with in the Lower House. I have said something about this and many of you have said something about it today.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u7	I understand that Mr Schouw currently feels limited in his response, because he cannot consult the House of Representatives. Did Mr Schouw, as initiator, also feel limited in the written answer to our questions or did he always consult the House of Representatives when answering those questions? In other words, is there a difference between his position in the written procedure and his position now?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u8	What I keep in mind, of course, is what views exist in the House of Representatives surrounding the legislative proposal that we are discussing here. From that point of view and from the exchange of views I had with the members of the House of Representatives, I have tried to answer your questions twice as much as possible. From Mrs Van Bijsterveld's point, I understand that she did not think that was entirely satisfactory. Well, let's talk about that in a moment, but it must be clear that this is a proposal for the deconstitutionalisation of the method of appointment, nothing more and nothing less than that. A number of political groups have a preference for an arrangement of appointment by ordinary law when it comes to the way in which they are appointed. Some groups have reservations and reservations about this and wonder whether the old can't simply be preserved. In an attempt to address all questions as well and as structured as possible, I have divided the answer into four blocks. In the first block I go into the common thread that runs through the history of the appointment. I use the second block to answer all the questions that relate to the criteria governing the Constitution or ordinary law and how they can be applied to the method of appointment. In the third block, I will try to say something about topicality, although it is outside the legislative proposal that is being discussed here. What is going on in local government and what are the challenges facing it? In the fourth block, I would actually like to pass on the questions of the individual Members in the order in which they have contributed. At the end of my introduction, I would like to say that I find it extremely pleasurable that this Chamber has shown its willingness to discuss the subject in this composition. I am very pleased about that. I'll be on the first block. Not the least, Thorbecke, did the discussion start on whether the manner of appointment of the mayor and the King's Commissioner belongs in the Constitution. In my opinion, he felt that this was not the case, although there might be a dispute about it. We heard Mr De Vries on this this morning. The time I had between the first term of this Chamber and my answer was not enough to verify all this precisely, but what we do know is that Thorbecke said at that time: the legislator, who must judge and regulate all this, must not be tied to the hands of the head of local government. It is a historical fact that for 167 years people have been trying to change this at regular intervals or at least try to set it up. Everyone in this Chamber who deals with this issue or has dealt with it in the past knows that there have been several state committees that have broken their heads about the level at which this appointment should be regulated. At the end of the 19th century, the Heemskerk Committee made a renewed appeal to regulate the method of appointment in ordinary law rather than in the Constitution. However, it was decided differently. The government rejected that idea. In 1922, the Ruijs de Beerenbrouck State Commission wanted an arrangement by law for the appointment of the chairman of the council. This time the plan was supported by the government but the House of Representatives rejected it. Then, half a century of relative resignation and silence broke out, but in 1972, the Cals/Donner Committee threw a new stone into the pond and concluded that the legislation should have the possibility to opt for different solutions. The method of appointment should not therefore be established in the Constitution, but where it was expected that a wave of changes would occur, it turned out to be nothing more than a ripple on the surface, because it never happened. More recently, the conclusion of the State Committee on Dualism and Local Democracy. In 1999 it proposed not merely to deconstitutionize the method of appointment, but to add a provision in the Constitution which means that the law regulates the subject. The legislative proposal before us also follows that course. The most recent fact from the long history was the bill to deconstitutionalize that in early years zero parliament passed through. A number of your members were already involved in the proposal that was discussed in both the Lower House and the Upper House at first reading. At that time, it was also considered desirable that the ordinary legislator should be able to express its opinion on the manner in which the mayor and the king's commissioner were appointed. It was also striking at the time that it was stressed that the conclusion of the discussion on the method of appointment could also be that the current system should be maintained. Then nothing else has to happen. That bill was adopted at first reading on 19 June 2001 and on 22 January 2002 respectively by the Lower House and the Upper House. When I look at the insertion of this morning through my eye hairs, I see the same kind of discussion as it was at the time in both chambers. The second reading of course ended on 22 March 2005 in this Chamber. I'll leave that night to everyone's own memories. However, I can tell that the burden of the subject and of the discussion that took place ten years later is still on the table. I understand that and I feel that, but I also say that it may not be necessary to treat it as loaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u9	Mr Schouw goes into history. I referred to Thorbecke this morning, after studying it thoroughly. However, there is no other conclusion than that it had to do with the specific situation at the time. Thorbecke says that in so many words. Apart from that, you're gonna get that whole history. This morning, I argued that that's how you tend to compare apples with pears. The situation has changed, at least for the municipal councils from about 1960-1970, with the end of 2001-2002. Since then, the city council has full control over the appointment. He decides who is to be appointed, says the Minister. It doesn't matter whether a city council has anything to say about the appointment or whether it makes a full decision. You can call witnesses from 1922 and 1953, but is that a good comparison?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u10	I agree with Mr De Vries that the context has changed. Each period has its own elements. If there's a law on dualisation, it has meaning for the board. However, there is one important constant, namely whether or not the method of appointment of the mayor belongs in the Constitution. Is that a cornerstone of the Constitution, yes or no? That has been the constant in all those discussions and all those reports. I do not think Mr De Vries can deny that this is a constant discussion either. It is also here today to a great extent.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u11	I hear what the initiator is saying. My group needs a different approach to the issue. It would help us if Mr Schouw gave a clear answer to the following. Let's say there's a politically broad consensus on how to regulate the mayor's position under ordinary law. For example, the method of appointment is the same as in current practice. In Mr Schouw's view, what would be the fundamental or formal problem if the appointment were to remain in the Constitution?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u12	I'll get to that in a minute. My firm conviction is that the appointment of the mayor does not belong in the Constitution, but can be properly regulated in an ordinary law. The same applies to the appointment of the King's Commissioner.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u13	I hear you say that, but say that the appointment remains in the Constitution and that there is a politically broad-based idea of modernising the method of appointment, for example by analogy with the practice that has been established since 2001-2002. This could then be regulated by ordinary legislation. Does that not contradict the fact that the appointment remains in the Constitution?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u14	I don't know. I hope that, in this Chamber too, the idea of getting the appointment out of the Constitution and regulating it by ordinary law is widely supported. That's what I'm here for. I do not think I have entirely helped Mr Thissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u15	No, but it could happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u16	I'm gonna finish the block on history. I was at March 22, 2005. The way things went back then, I leave everyone's own memory. As initiator, I took up the proposal again in 2012. In 2013 it was dealt with in the Lower House. I come to the block on the issue of ordinary law or constitution. This morning, many questions were raised on this subject. Does the Constitution include the way in which the Constitution is appointed? Is there sufficient need for a constitutional change? I am very clear about that: there is good reason to change the Constitution. The provision on appointment does not really belong in the Constitution. I'm flying it on two routes. The first is that the appointment of the mayor and the king's commissioner is not a key element in the state establishment. The second approach to look at it is that it contains no safeguards for citizens' rights. That is the basis of the proposal for an initiative: the method of appointment does not belong in the Constitution. I shall deal with four questions on this point. Where's it supposed to be? When are you going to change the Constitution? Is there a big interest? This question has also been asked by a number of Members. What's the biggest barrier?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u17	I have listened carefully to what Mr Schouw has just said, namely that it is not necessary to establish the method of appointment of the mayor in the Constitution. I was just thinking about the way ministers were appointed. Every time "Mayor" was said, I filled in "Minister." I came to the conclusion that if that reasoning stands up for the mayor, she will stand up for the minister. Is Mr Schouw therefore in favour of the constitutionalisation of the appointment of ministers at KB?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u18	I thank Mrs Van Bijsterveld for the question. But I am standing here today with an own-initiative proposal on the deconstitutionalisation of the mayor's method of appointment. I'm not here to deconstitutionize all kinds of other things. If there was a broad constitutional review on this point, your Chamber often talks about it, then you could take it with you. I would like to draw Mrs Van Bijsterveld's attention to the following. One might wonder why the Constitution does contain the method of appointment, but not the tasks, and why, for example, there is nothing in it about dismissal. My view is: it doesn't belong there. This was also reflected in Mr Engels' contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u19	I am not, of course, interested in discussing the system of government at national level. I am concerned about how consistent Mr Schouw's reasoning is. But I understand he doesn't want to go into that further.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u20	Mrs Van Bijsterveld understood that correctly. I am dealing with this initiative proposal. I try to defend that as best I can, on behalf of a large part of the House of Representatives. I am not free to philosophize about other matters that Mrs Van Bijsterveld might propose to take them out of the Constitution. I think she understands that this doesn't fit in with my role. But it might be appropriate for the government to say something about this. With that I hope to be able to serve Mrs Van Bijsterveld a little bit. Where should the appointment be? In order to conclude that the method of appointment can be deconsulated, there are two questions to be asked. The first question is whether the method of appointment is essential for the organisation of the main state institutions. The second question is whether the method of appointment is essential for citizens' rights and obligations. In my view, the answer to both questions is a clear no. The Constitution does not govern the way in which many other state institutions are appointed either. Look, for example, at the Presidency of the Water Boards. That is not in the Constitution either. With regard to these posts, regulations are always sufficient by law. Nor is it clear why the mayor and the king's commissioner should make an exception here. The applicant's position is therefore that the method of appointment of the mayor and the King's Commissioner is not of such importance that it should remain enshrined in the Constitution. The current constitutional provision is also an article addressed to the administration. It is a procedural article that does not create any substantive rights or obligations for the ordinary Dutchman or..... to put it into a framework that is common for the passage of treaties nowadays........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ What is the reason why you would change the Constitution? Mr De Vries also asked very strongly about this. Is there sufficient need to amend that Constitution? Mr De Vries said that more people, including Mrs Van Bijsterveld, did that there should be an urgent legal or social need for an amendment to the Constitution. My view is quite frankly that such a very sharp and necessary criterion is perhaps very difficult to apply. I would remind Members that the procedure for amending the Constitution is already very difficult. Two readings are required, the second reading being carried out by a two-thirds majority in both the Second and First Chambers. This provides sufficient guarantees and guarantees to prevent a frivolous handling of the Constitution. I would point out in abundance, but I would like to say it here: it is only the first reading today. The proposal does not, therefore, explain the need for de-constitutionalisation, but I quote 'that there is reason to consider a proposal to change the Constitution to de-constitutionalise the appointment of the Commissioner of the King and the Mayor'.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u21	I see that Mr De Vries is trying to interrupt. I would point out to him, however, that there are also interruptions through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u22	Mr President, I am aware of that. Maybe I did it wrong. I would like to ask Mr Schouw whether he is not saying the same thing twice. He says that there is a heavy procedure for the Constitution, and that is actually the legal and social necessity. Or does he say that this procedure is so difficult that you no longer have to prove a legal or social necessity?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u23	I am trying to explain that the criterion of legal and social necessity is not to cut with scissors. You cannot say: when the vessel is so full, the legal or social necessity has been sufficiently demonstrated. It's also a matter of appreciation. I think you should see it in conjunction with my first point, and that was that it does not belong in the Constitution, because it is not essential for the establishment of the state and citizens cannot derive any rights from it. You can do it perfectly by ordinary law. That is where it belongs, I say to Mr De Vries. Secondly, and in fact a plethora: a constitutional change requires an extremely difficult procedure and then no one, not in the Lower House and not here in the Upper Chamber, goes ice-cream over one night.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u24	That is true, but in most cases there is also a serious reason for such a difficult procedure to enter into that procedure. I would remind you that Mr Plasterk, in a debate recently following the English motion, said very emphatically on behalf of the government: it may be desirable, but there really must be a legal or social need to do so. You do not give rise to a need for legal or social action. What you are actually saying is that if the draft law is adopted, the need has been demonstrated.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u25	Once again, there is a legal need because this is not part of the Constitution. That's my belief. You can also settle this fine by ordinary law. However, if you do not support that first argument, you do not see the legal need either. I understand that very well from Mr De Vries' point of view, but I also ask you to understand my position. The legal necessity lies in the fact that the method of appointment does not belong in the Constitution. I would also like to say a few words about the social need, as Mrs Huijbregst also spoke about this. There are parties, I have heard them here today, who say: it is good to look at the position and role of the mayor, but in his whole context. The same can be seen in the report of the Society and its conclusions. The Society says: we would like to talk about the changing role of the mayor in the local government, provided that you include the whole context. This indicates that there is a certain social need to have that discussion. However, when this social need turns into social necessity, it is arbitrary. That is my view.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u26	I would like to take a look back at previous statements by Mr Schouw. He talked about the social necessity and said that the feeling that there is reason to change also depends on the appreciation. I was already muttering into myself: you see, so still politics. He sketches how complicated and heavy a constitutional change is. I'm very simple in that sort of thing. Can't he explain something? You don't go into these kinds of trajectories if you don't want something to change. I can hardly imagine that he alone thinks that the appointment of the mayor or the way in which the mayor is appointed should be removed from the Constitution, because he wants to write pure law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u27	It is good that Mrs Huijbregts asks that question. I have heard the First Chamber correctly, but of course I have also heard the House of Representatives well. I've also seen what the Society thinks. That says: it is good to conduct the discussion about the mayor's method of appointment, but in a broader context. In addition, this bill can help. I can't anticipate models or anything. I will come back in a moment to the question of what this process might look like. You see in society, in society, a good substantive discussion. I believe that the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats in this House strongly insisted on this. Mrs Huijbregts and I agree. There has also been talk of whether there is a major interest in resisting the decentralisation of the level of appointment regulation. As many of you know, the mayor hasn't been a rich organ since 1962. Article 125 of the Constitution therefore only refers to him as a municipal body. There may be something interesting going on with the King's Commissioner, but I have to say that he is primarily a provincial body and Article 126 of the Constitution gives him the opportunity to act as a rich body. There is therefore a possibility to give to the King's Commissioner, but that possibility is not a cornerstone. So there is no question of breaking continuity in that respect. Nor do I see a compelling link between the possibility given and the method of appointment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u28	Mr Schouw mentioned the position of the King's Commissioner. Would he not make his proposal more acceptable if he looked at the Belgian situation in this respect, where it is not so differentiated in the legislation, but where the practice is that the mayor is elected by the Council and the Commissioner of the King, who is called the Governor, in the same way as in the Netherlands? Those functions are handed out as a power of the government, with all the party political struggle around them, as recently between VLD and N-VA around the governorship of the province of East Flanders? That is where the King's Commissioner is dealing with an appointment from the top and for the mayor an appointment from the bottom. Perhaps that differentiation can allow you to refute that point of criticism at least.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u29	Mr Meijer raised a very interesting point, which was also raised by the VVD Group. If I sum up very briefly, the question is: can the outcome of a wide-ranging discussion on the methods of appointment and organisation of the board lead to a differentiated outcome for the mayor on the one hand and the Commissioner on the other? Yes, that seems quite possible to me. But the most important task is, I think, that the political parties, the mayors, the aldermen but also the scientists will use each other in the coming time to have a good discussion with each other. The fourth point I would like to mention here is the question of what the biggest barrier is to have a good discussion about the future. There's a pretty brilliant response to that. However, that is a response that I take from the defence of this same bill in 2002 by then Minister De Vries. Just give me a minute to quote that reaction. "A meaningful debate on the appointment of the mayor should be possible without the shadow of a long and uncertain procedure of constitutional revision. The Constitution is wrongly too high a barrier." Those were the words of the then government, in 2002. I also hear from many members of the House today that it is a high barrier. So if we now take a step towards removing that barrier, we can also have a good discussion with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u30	Mr Schouw cites Minister De Vries, whom I find an honor. However, he is debating today with the Member of Parliament, Mr De Vries, who has explained the development he has experienced in his thinking since then, namely that this was a major mistake. I honestly confessed to that. Why don't you take that with you, Mr Schouw?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u31	What I am saying is that there are four things involved in the change. I belonged to the discussion in the Lower House and now also in the Upper Chamber. This is such a point. Basically, if you want to have a good discussion with each other about the position of the mayor and the relationship with the other bodies in the local government, you will have to take a first step in that constitutional change.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u32	I am not a De Vriesexegeet and I do not want to pretend that I want to be one. I do not know how many more mistakes he has made; if we have to talk about this, perhaps this debate will take much longer... But did Mr De Vries, as Minister De Vries, not mean exactly the same as what I have just asked the initiator in the event of interruption? I am referring to the question of what would stand in the way of a normal, ordinary law in which we change or anchor the way in which the mayor is appointed as it has grown in practice, while leaving the appointment of the mayor in the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u33	I would ask Mr Thissen to reply to his question so that I can understand it. What exactly does Mr Thissen mean by his question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u34	What if we don't change the Constitution? Suppose we leave the appointment of the mayor as it stands in the Constitution, but by ordinary law we regulate the way in which the political, administrative and social support may arise or will arise in society. Perhaps that has grown in practice as it has now. Isn't that what Minister De Vries might have meant? Not that I have the pretence of being a De Vries exeget.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u35	Now I understand very well what Mr Thissen means. If we...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u36	One moment. Does your question follow, Mr Meijer? Then maybe they can be taken right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u37	I would remind Mr Schouw that in my first term I have already pointed out the possibility that, if necessary, we shall not have my preference, while retaining the current text of Article 131, exactly what is being said either by the advocates of the mayor elected by the Council or by the supporters of the directly elected mayor. Such legislation does not necessarily have to be contrary to the Constitution. Indeed, if it is contrary to that, the current regime, which, even if it comes between the powers that exist for the King's Commissioner and the Minister for the Interior, would already be contrary to the Constitution. The question is, therefore, if the constitutional change does not take place, to what extent this is a blockade to do what Mr Schouw and I want.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u38	Of course, I'm very difficult to see in the future. But if you look at the whole dossier, you will see that if there is no first step towards constitutional change, a discussion about how we are going to do it in the future is not going to be enough, because there is no confidence that this constitutional change will happen. If a first step is taken now, you will see that the discussion will start in full force. That was the reasoning at the time, and I believe in it, which is why I quoted the government at the time. That debate is also necessary. We have already seen some evidence of this: the society has come up with a good model discussion and the minister has come up with a number of variants and has even said that he wants to facilitate the discussion in the future. That's the end of the matter, to say it unparliamentary.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u39	Mr Schouw does not answer my question directly. My question is whether the amendment he is advocating and which I am also advocating could also be possible within the existing constitutional article. I have already asked this question in the first term. I understand that Mr Schouw is defending his constitutional initiative. I agree with him on this; let there be no disagreement. But the question is whether you could achieve the same effect in another way, a question also raised by Mr Thissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u40	I should like to say the following: it is not a good solution. Indeed, as many have argued in the first term, we have a bit of a hybrid situation at the moment. On top of that, I would argue that the method of appointment does not belong in the Constitution. So get rid of it now. You can also take the pragmatic path, as the representative of the SP suggests. But I'm giving him a note that if we settle it by ordinary law, others in this house will say: yes, but, really, it can't, because it can't be done by the Constitution. That's how everyone keeps each other on this subject. I therefore thought it right to take it very gradually. First the constitutional change in the first round in Lower House and Upper Chamber. Then round two. In the meantime, the government can facilitate discussion with society about future models. That seems to me to be the most orderly way of doing things.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u41	I would like to put one more argument in the middle, precisely about this case. If the Constitution were to remain intact in terms of appointments, would it not mean limiting the ideas that a person might have about the best solution to this problem, while at the same time remaining above the market, and constantly entering into debate, that those possible best solutions might be contrary to the Constitution? That's what I'd be worried about. That's why I think it's very sensible to listen to the initiator of this so that I can first make a free pass for all possible variants and then start talking about all these variants.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u42	The initiator fully agrees with what Mr De Lange says. The order of things such as the initiator and the government that are before them is by far preferable to the maintenance of the current constitutional article. We need to get rid of that. In the meantime, we need to facilitate a good discussion. I come to my third block, which I have just referred to as "the actuality." This is actually outside this bill, but questions have been asked about it. A note from the Minister and the Society has also been published, as has already been mentioned. It is good to take a look at the problems that are currently taking place in local government, or, more positively and enthusiastically, the challenge. I would, of course, also like to point out that I do not want to anticipate any discussion about any form of appointment. It has already been quoted from the much mentioned study of the Dutch Society of Mayors. This study was carried out by the University of Tilburg. Their opinion shows that this mayor's role should be seen in the light of the whole system, with all actors and mutual relationships, with a view to ensuring good governance. That's how the society writes it down. Questions have also been asked about this; it has been asked whether the applicant also believes that the method of appointment of the mayor should be seen in isolation or in conjunction in the future. The answer to that is: you must, of course, see this in conjunction with the other organs. In my opinion, this is in line with the wishes of the society. There are some relevant developments in the office that I would like to share with this Chamber. In abundance, I note that it is not my observations but comments from the study that have been made. My comments are based on a recent review of the position by Professor Pieter Tops, Professor Fijnaut, but also a practicer like Dick de Cloe. They shared some observations in January 2015. Actually, it comes down to three points. One has to do with the changing social environment; many members have already talked about it. From a passive attitude of citizens, we move towards a much more active attitude. Local government has become more of a cooperative government. Mr Thissen already mentioned the horizontal nature of the board. This also has significance for the role and function of the mayor, because a self-evident acceptance of the mayor's short term "positional authority" decreases. Professor Tops writes that a mayor must earn the authority in terms of content and style all the time; it is no longer automatic. The second point relates to the growing task of the mayor. Look, for example, at the safety book, the licensing or the deprivation of liberty of people; the identification of areas where preventive searches are required. It'll give us a lot of discussion and tension. Mayors say so, by the way. There is a tension between, on the one hand, the friendly bourgeois father or mother and, on the other hand, the strict role of decision-maker. The mayor comes to this point more and more often in a spagate and under a magnifying glass. The third point relates to the dualisation of the influence of the council which sometimes limits the relatively independent role of the mayor vis-à-vis local politics. There is much more to be said about it, but I think that in a utility shell this is the three challenges that local government faces, including this Chamber, the political parties and the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u43	Mr Schouw just mentioned the tension area, namely the role of the mayor as a citizen's father and as the one who must be strict. How's he gonna do that in the ordinary law?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u44	Mr De Vries is now asking for a solution. I have said that I mention here a number of problems which are known in science. I'd like to share it with this room. I prefer to objectify it as much as possible. Mr De Vries understands that more than anyone. These are the three problems. These are puzzles, and we have to come up with solutions for that, a little in line with what Mrs Harbers said. It is therefore important to look at the role of the other players in the local playing field. If I had the solution, I might have been standing here with the solution, as I say to Mr De Vries. But I'm not that big. I am small and modest in the process of de-constitutionalisation. I'm trying to share some things with you. I'm on my next block. These are the individual speakers, as far as they have not yet been discussed. I would first like to address Mrs Van Bijsterveld. Can I say that I am not happy with the fact that Mrs Van Bijsterveld is not satisfied with my answers in the documents? Of course, that was never my intention. I'm trying to serve everyone as well as I can, and if that didn't work out, I'm very sorry. In order to prevent her from making me again this reproach, which is, of course, deep down, I will go into her speech carefully, in accordance with the six points by which her story has been divided. The first is essentially about where the burden of proof lies with regard to the justification of a proposal for deconstitutionalisation. In her view, the mere fact that the subject has been regulated in the Constitution for many years is sufficient justification for maintaining it indefinitely. Fortunately, the 1983 Constitutional Review had different views on this, otherwise we would still have had a very comprehensive and dated Constitution. At the same time, I say that what Mrs Van Bijsterveld said is true: it is a fact that in 1983 it was decided to maintain the crowning title of the mayor and the King's Commissioner in the Constitution. However, it is also a fact that that is already 30 years ago. Surely it is quite possible that, within such a time frame, the views on what is a foundation or a cornerstone of our system of state change? In any event, the complainant's view is that the way in which the mayor and the King's commissioner are appointed is not a foundation or cornerstone of our constitutional system. That is why the proposal is before us. Mrs Van Bijsterveld's second point concerns the coherence between the method of appointment, the scope of tasks and administrative relations. That task package and those relationships are changing. Yes, of course this must be taken into account in the decision on the method of appointment. I agree with the CDA Group on this point. My view is that this can best be done at the level of the law. That brings me to Mrs Van Bijsterveld's third point: her fear that the way of appointment will become a playball of temporary and changing political majorities. It calls that an essential risk. I understand her point. It is also a point that was raised by the CDA group in the House of Representatives. I understand the point, but I don't see the risk. I don't see the risk for two reasons. About all political parties say about the organisation of local government: you can't do this for six years and after six years you can just do something else. Everyone has spoken out for continuity and long lines, so that is a kind of political guarantee. If it is governed by an ordinary law, then it also has its legal history and legal processes. The legislator is not about one night of ice cream, as we notice today. It's not gonna be a yo-yo policy. I do not see any reason for this or any indication whatsoever. I hope Mrs Van Bijsterveld can jump over this point. Mrs Van Bijsterveld's fourth point concerned the King's Commissioner. I just talked about it. She spoke of the special status of the Commissioner as a state body. Firstly, I note that this role is not very special and that it is very lightly embedded in the Constitution. Rule 126 states that the Commissioner may be responsible for carrying out an instruction, so it is not necessary. Secondly, I would point out that the position of the Commissioner can be taken into account at the level of the law, even when it comes to the way he is appointed. On Mrs Van Bijsterveld's fifth point, which was about a different method of appointment, I have already said enough in the previous paragraph. Then there is the sixth point, which, in short, means that the municipalities are now in such a state of flux with the decentralisations that you should not think of new things there. I think that is a slight misunderstanding. If I'm trying to plan a little real, then the next thing is gonna happen. New elections are due to take place in 2017. That is only the moment when the House of Representatives, with two-thirds majority, has to discuss and go through this bill again. There'll be a new room. That will also take a year and then it will end up here again, at the earliest in 2018. In the meantime, the Minister would like to facilitate this discussion about a different method of appointment, but wide. You'll have to discuss this with the Minister. That discussion will not end tomorrow either, so we still have some time. In other words, one can hope that in two years' time it will be in the municipalities, where there are problems with decentralisation. We don't have a discussion until years later about a different method of appointment. Ms Huijbregts asked for a response to her suspicion that supporters of the current method of appointment will not support an amendment to the Constitution and that those who want change will support the initiative the other way around. That's an observation. I cannot contradict that, of course, but I hope that is not the case. I can see in this Chamber that there is a widespread feeling that we need to look very closely at the different roles and problems in the decentralised administration. You must have a sensible and good discussion about this. That constitutional provision prevents such a discussion, at least initially. If we remove that obstacle now, we can have that good discussion with each other. Ms Huijbregts also wondered whether when both methods of appointment are established outside the Constitution, it would be possible for these differences to exist. I just said something about that. I can confirm that. It is indeed possible, as she outlines, that the King's Commissioner will continue to be appointed and that the mayor will be elected in another way or vice versa. We can think of a lot of things to do with that. Mrs Huijbregts was already thinking along with the future legislator, who will have to deal with questions such as how the supervision and dependence of the elected Commissioner should be shaped, also in the light of possibly also an elected mayor. She asked for a response from me. She also asked whether a centralisation of certain tasks of the Commissioner to the appointed Minister of State would then be foreseeable. These are extremely legitimate questions from Mrs Huijbregts, but I think she understands very well that I cannot answer them in concrete terms at the moment. You can only answer them if you already know which direction you are going for the future. We do not know that, but they are the right questions to ask. In her contribution, Ms Huijbregts addressed the problems with the current position of the mayor, who has been coming into increasingly difficult waters for some time. I hope that my contribution will respond to the comments of the VVD Group. I think they're very close together. She also asked me what would go wrong with the current method of appointment of the CdK in our twelve provinces. I think that we all have a little less focus on our retina there, but they are both in the initiative legislative proposal. I think it's good to take them. If, later on in a substantive impact, it appears that you have to apply differentiation, then we see that and of course we have all the possibilities to do so. Mrs Huijbregts asked us what thirteen years of dualisation brought us, which parts of the original proposals were not introduced or adapted and whether it was not even time for an in-depth evaluation and adjustment of our decentralised governance structure. I must also exercise some restraint. The Minister can offer you better commitments than I can in terms of the effects of dualisation and evaluation. I thought I dealt with most of Mrs Huijbregt's questions. Mr Engels outlined, in three notions, the constitutional context of the mayor's office and asked if I could share his observation on this matter. First of all, I would like to thank him for his analysis. Let me remind you of what he sketched. He outlined how the appointment was not constitutionally regulated; how the Council Presidency was incorporated into the Constitution in 1983 and quietly disappeared 25 years later, in 2008; how the Constitution only mentions the mayor as part of the College, but continues to remain silent about the tasks, role and profile of the mayor, and how the mayor's terms of office are exclusively constitutionally regulated and no relationship has been established with the content of the post. Like Mr Engels, I come to the conclusion that the constitutionalist has not tried to frame the mayor's office exhaustively and explicitly constitutionally. This is an important finding which is fully in line with the idea behind this bill that the method of appointment should be regulated by law rather than by Constitution. Mr Engels also raised the question of whether the method of appointment of the King's Commissioner and the mayor was constitutional in nature. He came to the conclusion that he didn't and asked me if I shared his observations. I think I have said enough about that. I can see Mr Engels moving forward if there is any uncertainty about it, but I share with him all those observations. I would, of course, like to thank Mr Nagel for his support for the legislative proposal and also for his understanding of my personal preferences regarding another system. I am defending a legislative proposal here and I therefore expect everyone to understand that I will not go into his further wish that I make a plea for democratisation and indicate what that would look like. I don't feel free to do that. However, I do owe him an answer to his question about possible experiments. I mentioned it as a possibility in the written preparation at the time, but it should not be inferred that I would prefer that route to all kinds of other routes. After the deconstitutionalisation, we must first have a good discussion, which also involves the tasks and administrative relations of the mayor and the Commissioner. Whether we will have a lot of experience in other European cities to look at. But I think it would be wise to take that into account, because each country has its own interesting model. However, if this results in a new method of appointment and perhaps other changes to the system of decentralised administration, it must have a degree of stability. Then we have returned to Mrs Van Bijsterveld's question about stability and continuity, as is the case with all organic laws. Mr De Vries asked about the urgent legal or social need and whether this is not so much a formal or a substantive criterion. I have just explained that this is an arbitrary criterion. If you think that appointment is not part of the Constitution, it is a legal need to change it. When it comes to social needs, I notice that everyone, up to and including the Dutch Society of Mayors, wants to think about a changing role. Mr De Vries also wondered whether, in the context of 'think before you begin', we should not first have an in-depth debate on the method of appointment itself, and only then change the Constitution. Although an in-depth debate on possible changes or improvements is obviously needed to resolve existing bottlenecks or to address existing challenges, this is more or less separate from today's demand. If this Chamber is prepared to take this first step, then we can have that discussion in full. If the lock stays on the door, there will be little more of this further discussion. Then the house is locked. I would not like that, nor would I like the government, but it will say something about it in a moment. Mr De Vries stated that the Constitutionalist consistently took the view that a mayor's appointment should be included in the Constitution. That is right and it is true, because it is still in the Constitution. These discussions and notions have led, sometimes one minute before twelve, to the failure to amend the Constitution on that point. However, you can also see that there have been very different views over all these decades. There are studies and quotes on this, but I do not think we should fight each other on this. The fact is that it is now in the Constitution and over the years it has been thought very differently by all kinds of experts, state committees and everything else. Mr Vries outlined the possibility that a possibility could be built into the change in the method of appointment that a role for the Crown would continue to exist, for example in the event of suspension or dismissal. The fact remains that this is no longer the main rule, but an exception, if you would get there already. It's, as it were, a system emergency valve. Then I try to think very much about Mr De Vries' comments on this point. This, of course, creates a fundamentally different situation. Because now involvement of the Crown is the main rule, which has been stretched by the influence that local councils have acquired for some years. In the scenario put forward by Mr De Vries, it is the city council or the people who make the choice primarily, formally and in practice. Mr De Vries asked whether it was not up to the public administration to anchor the method of appointment in the Constitution. In this way everyone knows for a long time what they are up to. This would create a guarantee of system stability. I hope that with the answer to about the same question from Mrs Van Bijsterveld I have also addressed Mr De Vries on that point. In short, if you look at the political parties, no one intends to make a yo-yo policy of appointments. We still have the usual laws. Mr De Vries asked about the need for a change in the system. I have mentioned a number of points on this subject. When it comes to this bill, I note that the recital is that there is reason to consider this bill. That's what I'm asking this room. Mr De Vries asked about the head of the city council. Who's in charge of the city? Is that gonna be the city council, or is that gonna be the mayor? He sees the headship as a guarantee of representative democracy, which in too many countries is under pressure from the executive. Mr De Vries asked what I think of that. I have no reason to go against the head of the city council. My proposal also contains no change to that headship. I would like to say once again that the main body of the Council is therefore the anchor point within which a future discussion should take place. I do not really hear anyone express any doubts about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u45	I may have whispered it, but at least on behalf of my group I mentioned that this must be weighed and taken into account in the future discussion on the way in which the mayor is appointed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u46	Then it's whispered. But when it comes to the future discussion, I cannot object to that. Then it is the minister who must take that as an input. In fact, I note that it is not part of my deconstitutionalisation proposal. It doesn't have to be, because in theory, you can just deconstitutionalize, but maintain the method of appointment in the same way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u47	To put it bluntly, the VVD has said that we want to have clarity on this at second reading immediately after this proposal has been examined. We believe that the position of the mayor should be seen in the wider context of the Constitution. This means including any changes and adjustments.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u48	As far as I can tell, that space is there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u49	I asked Mr Schouw whether he also saw the head of the council, including the right that is now actually granted to appoint the mayor. Maybe I can come up with an answer to that question, but I'd like to hear it from him.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u50	I would like to repeat that I see no reason to go against the head of the council now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u51	Is that a headship including the right to actually appoint the mayor?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u52	That is now the actual practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u53	I ask for your opinion. Do you think that should continue to be the case?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u54	There is, of course, the question of whether the initiator of the legislative proposal that we are discussing today also has a view on the method of appointment. Mr De Vries may ask that very legitimate question, but I have already given the disclaimer in my introduction that I am not saying anything about it, because that is not what this bill is about. We're at the start of a discussion. I am almost so happy as a child that the Minister wants to facilitate that discussion. I am not going to block this discussion or burden it with all kinds of views in advance, because then we will not get anywhere, I say to Mr De Vries. I hope and trust that he understands that from my side. I shall now come to Mr De Lange's contribution. I would like to thank him for his support and for his strength. I have been there a number of times when I was standing here with legislative proposals to go back to the heart of the proposal. Because, yes, the proposal is actually nothing more or less than a first step towards getting the method of appointment out of the Constitution. All the other topics we have at the head today are relevant and connected to them, but sec is not about them. Mr De Lange also referred to a shift in the mayor's remit. I think I have given it ample consideration by now. In his speech, Mr Meijer outlined the history of mayor appointments, especially of all the political handicrafts surrounding them. That was a very nice insight into and overview of the political handicrafts with which the large traditional parties traditionally distributed the mayor's posts through the country neatly. As Mr Meijer pointed out, in 1814 there were good reasons to go for a tightly guided Crown nomination. The Netherlands had to be united, but even at that time the Constitution was not undisputed. He was right to point out that according to the Constitution, the city council is the highest body within the municipality. All in all, he indicated valuable building blocks for a follow-up to the discussion on the method of appointment. Mr Meijer also asked the Minister and me whether, without a constitutional change, the Belgian system could be implemented quickly and fully. In the case of interruption, I have just said a few things about this. Article 131 of the Constitution is already being implemented in a completely different way from what the constitutionalist was supposed to have intended. With a formal right of recommendation from the Council, it is difficult to speak of a real Crown appointment. This is generally regarded as the maximum extension of the interpretation of Article 131. As far as I am concerned, it is a little beyond the scope of the article. This also applies to the fact that it is not possible to cut it with scissors, but I give Mr Meijer a note that, if we do this, others will probably climb into the pen and indicate that it is all unconstitutional and cannot. Mr Thissen raised the fear that the important posts of mayor and CdK would be constantly moving along with varying political views by means of an ordinary law. I understand what Mr Thissen said, but if the question is whether I share that fear, the answer is no. Politicians have so far taken into account in many other areas of public administration that they have a great responsibility to ensure that local government functions properly. They therefore seek the broadest possible support for their proposals in both parliament and the relevant bodies or their umbrella organisations and society in the broadest sense. Mr. Thissen also asked about the perspective for good governance expressed by the Dutch Society of Mayors. This concerns identification, administrative power, legitimacy and decision-making quality. Without commenting on the pros and cons of each criterion and on the manner in which this leads, I would say that these seem to me to be extremely sensible criteria which should be taken into account in the further discussion on methods of appointment and possible modalities. Mr. Thissen also referred to a wish of the Dutch Society of Mayors to review the position of mayors as a whole, appropriate in the municipal system. I think I have already answered that in detail. For the sake of clarity, yes, I very much agree with that. But that should not happen in haste; let us try to do it carefully and well with each other. I would like to thank Mr Van Dijk for his support for this proposal. He asked about the next steps. I just said something about that. The elections are scheduled for 2017. Then there is a second reading in the House of Representatives. If we manage to get a second third majority there, we will again be facing a two-thirds majority. In the meantime, the Minister is going ahead with the models. Finally, I come to Mr Holdijk's speech. He himself sees no major problems with the current method of appointment and therefore wonders what problem this is for. I have already said a number of things about this, but I also want to serve Mr Holdijk well. The fact that the method of appointment is not a fundamental element of the Constitution is a problem that needs to be resolved. That's what we're trying to change. A good discussion should also be held on the future position of the mayor and how it relates to the other players in the field. Furthermore, Mr Holdijk says that we must first have the debate on local democracy: what do we expect from the mayors in a dual system? For Mr Holdijk, the mayor's independent position is important, especially with regard to public order. That requires an external identification of its own. The binding role is also important to him. He wondered what was left of this role after the constitutionalisation. I must say to Mr Holdijk that perhaps nothing will change at all, but we are there together. There is a certain need within political parties and the parliament to take a very good look at it. I can't predict the outcome of that discussion. Maybe everything's sticking to the old thing, or maybe something's gonna change. But the points that Mr Holdijk refers to are the independent position, the legitimacy and the binding role of the latter seem to me to be anchoring points in order to shape the future further. I'm at the end of my answer. I hope that I have made it clear to the Chamber how attached I am to this initiative legislative proposal. I have tried as hard as possible to defend it and to answer all the questions that came from all angles and holes in this Chamber. I do, however, see some hesitation in a number of political groups about this bill. I understand that very well and I would like to say that we all have some hesitation in making a decision. I would ask the groups to overcome this hesitation. In abundance, I would point out that there will be a second round. Then, of course, the substantive questions about the future models can be clarified.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u55	I give the floor to the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u56	Madam President. Let me start with a compliment to the initiator. This time, as far as I am concerned, that goes beyond the obligatory compliment to anyone who comes forward with an initiative law. Firstly, it is a constitutional change. Secondly, the subject has a very long history. Thirdly, I would like to say that I would very much like to give the D66, which was established almost 50 years ago with the agenda, inter alia, the improvement of internal governance, as initiator in the Chamber, the impetus for this important step. Moreover, as you know, it is also an implementation of what the government has intended in the coalition agreement. Here's what I want to do. First of all, I would like to comment on the usefulness and necessity of the proposed constitutional change. Next, I would like to consider the route that might follow afterwards. I would then like to comment on questions put by Mrs Huijbregts and Mr Van Dijk on the procedure. I would also like to comment on Mrs Van Bijsterveld's question as to what could then become the stable, consistent course. Finally, I am passing by all the speakers to see if I have not answered any of the remaining questions. I would like to begin with the main point raised by Mrs Van Bijsterveld, Mr De Vries and others, namely: why do you want to do this? First of all, let me say the following, no matter what I wrote to the Chamber. It is the government's view that the appointment of the King's Commissioner and the mayor is not of such importance that this should be included in the organisation of the most important state institutions. Nor does it affect the fundamental rights and obligations of the citizens enshrined in the Constitution. So that is the substance of what would and would not belong in the Constitution. I realize that it is an old discussion, but that discussion was of course taken much earlier by state committees, namely in 1887, 1929, 1971, 1993 and 2000. That view also convinced a majority of the First and Second Chambers in an earlier attempt at deconstitutionalisation and even at second reading convinced the Second Chamber by a two-thirds majority. To address this first of the three arguments, I quote literally Article 132 of the Constitution: "The law governs the establishment of provinces and municipalities, as well as the composition and competence of their administrations'. The Constitution is therefore very clear; it is the ordinary law that should govern the administration of municipalities and provinces. In line with that, I would point out that the transition from the monist to the dualist system took place without the need for a constitutional change. This is part of what Article 132 of the Constitution says. That's something that can be arranged by ordinary law. So I agree, the government agrees with all the previous state committees that have said that this should also apply to the way in which the mayor is appointed. Then there's the second argument. Crown appointment is once intended as a guarantee for monitoring the national interest in the local government. Local democracy is all very nice, but let us make sure that, at that time as President of the City Council, there is someone in the Constitution who is responsible for the national interest. And that's actually not the role the mayor plays anymore. Thirdly, in my view, the need arises from the fact that it must be possible for the legislator to decide on the method of appointment. The desire to do so is apert present. This is also apparent from the previous parliamentary debate in which both the Second and First Chambers supported a previous proposal for deconstitutionalisation for that reason. Moreover, there is also a recent precedent whereby the Constitution has been amended to allow something to be changed by ordinary law in the municipal administration, while that has not actually changed after that. I refer to the 2008 Constitutional Amendment, which removed the Constitution from the Constitution that the mayor is the mayor of the city council. This was done at the time of the Balkenende IV cabinet; Mrs Bijleveld then successfully defended it here. This has not, moreover, led to the amendment of the law. So the law still states that the mayor is chairman of the city council, but the mere fact that it did not seem sensible to include that in the Constitution and that it could be better regulated by ordinary law was therefore sufficient in the eyes of the Second and First Chambers to change that point in the Constitution a few years ago. As far as I am concerned, therefore, there is a trio of arguments for amending the Constitution now. If the destitutionalisation is a fact, then by ordinary law the method of appointment can be changed. If, deo volente, this cabinet sits until 2017, it will only be decided at second reading on the constitutional change. Then both Chambers are involved, because there must be a two-thirds majority. I believe that this will not be the case until 2018. Only then will it be possible to change the method of appointment by ordinary law. In reply to Mrs Van Bijsterveld's question on this point, I can say that it will not be before 2020 that such a change will actually be law, if that change were to come and the legislator would decide on it. So I think that the feeling that a lot is happening in the municipalities, which I share, in five years' time might turn out to be a little less. Mrs Huijbregts has asked whether you should involve not only the method of appointment but also the desired role of the mayor in the municipal order. I couldn't agree more. That is actually the underlying thrust of the note I have sent to your Chamber. I didn't make a choice in that, but if one thing is clear, it is that you can't see the method of appointment and the role in the municipal order separately. The legislator will, of course, have to take due account of this in due course.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u57	I'd still like to tighten this up. It concerns not only the method of appointment and the role in the municipal system, but also the total functioning of the municipal system.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u58	Yeah, I agree. Mrs Huijbregts also specifically mentioned dualisation. It was introduced and evaluated in 2008. There was no reason to change it at the time, but it is really up to the legislator to do so at some point. I do believe that the role of the mayor is an important element in this, precisely in connection with that dualism, because, at least under the current law, the mayor is the chairman of the council and of the college of mayors and aldermen, which is, of course, a striking situation in a dualist structure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u59	Could the Minister be a little more specific about this? Does he make a commitment now or does he say anything can happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u60	I would like to make a commitment, but it's not really up to me. It is up to the legislator to decide what happens after the constitutionalisation. So that is only in another cabinet period, in a subsequent parliamentary term of the House of Representatives. However, I can promise that I will be fully committed to making as much discussion as possible on this matter and to getting information from everyone, such as the Dutch Society of Mayors, which is already extremely active in it, and people working on it from science and daily practice, so that as much information as possible can be made available to decide whether or not to amend the Constitution in a subsequent period of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u61	I'd like to have it even sharper. At first, it seemed as if the Minister made a commitment, because he spoke about the notes he published last Friday. Then I thought: well, that's the beginning of what the VVD is asking, namely to take control of that whole process. And now the Minister says: that will only come to a conclusion after the constitutionalisation. And in his response to the CDA, he even speaks of 2020. I thought it was clear that the VVD wanted to have a look at the picture for the second reading. Today, history has already gone beyond what happened to previous second readings, and we do not want that on our conscience.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u62	I fully admit that, but that is not contrary to what I have just said to Mrs Van Bijsterveld. It remains, of course, that in 2017, when this cabinet and this Chamber sit down the ride, the second reading will be on the agenda. There will then be a legislative process. I fully agree that from now on I am prepared to take the lead for this. So far there has been an initiative legislative proposal and we have proposed it, and I am pleased with it, because the proposal has been made extremely competent to allow him to direct this proposal to the Second and Upper Chambers. Of course, I am prepared to take that direction at all times. In the local democracy agenda, I have already indicated that I intend to carry out a broader exploration of the municipal law so that we can also work on it with a view to the future. I am already talking about this with the municipalities and the provinces. Ms Huijbregts also asked about the discussion on Chapter 7 of the Constitution. I look forward to that. I wrote and sent the relevant document at the request of the First Chamber. It is up to the Chamber to decide at what time it wishes to discuss it. I'm available to do that. Mrs Van Bijsterveld has highlighted the important issue of consistency and stability. I understand that point very well. Apart from what the majority would at any time find of the most desirable way of appointment of the mayor, it is certainly undesirable that it should be "flipfloppen," so that one coalition does so and the next coalition does so. I think that is a real concern. I'm pretty much the last one to think it's easy to make a change in domestic governance through a normal law. I have already mentioned the example of dualisation. That was decided a few years ago. There was quite a discussion about moving from a monist to a dualist system. However, this has not led to every new cabinet wondering again: should we continue to do so or not? If it has been decided once, then it will be so for a long time. That's wise, too. I did just have to chuckle because I tried to change something to the provincial government in the Netherlands by ordinary law, and still supported by a coalition agreement. You all know how far that proposal has come. I have said before in my surroundings that it is easier in the Netherlands to change the law of gravity than to change a law on domestic governance. I do not think that any other way of making the mayor's appointment would be laid down by law if the Constitution were to be amended. So I'm not so worried about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u63	I'd like to hear from the Minister how he looks back on a fairly recent history. I am talking about the 2001 and 2002 amendments. Within two years there was a proposal to change the whole practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u64	I approach it carefully, because I know that this is a subject with a history for many. But this illustrates a point I still wanted to make. Mr Schouw has already done that. The First Chamber and the Second Chamber are still present in second reading. Then they will be even more present than they are now, because then two thirds of the majority will be required in both Chambers. What if some crazy thing happened? That is what I am saying to Mr De Vries. If something were to happen that his party really does not want, then there is always the second reading. Then it can always be said in the next period: the coalition's plan is so bad for local government; we really shouldn't want that. This is the purpose of the constitutional amendment procedure. The emergency brake can always be pulled. I do not want to go into the arguments, because I know that there are differences of opinion in this Chamber. But this was apparently the reason for a number of senators to oppose that constitutional change at the time. I would, however, like to maintain that the internal administration is so stable and that there are so many forces in the internal administration that are able to find their way to the Lower House and the Upper Chamber and that they want to prevent strange leaps being made, that my main concern is not that major system changes will continue to be made in the internal administration. Rather, the opposite is the case. It is quite striking that something Thorbecke said in 1848 that you could question and which I have called into question since then is still under discussion. This illustrates that in the Netherlands this matter does not generally lead to legislative changes very quickly. That is what I wanted to say about the procedure. I go to the questions per speaker. I shall begin with Mrs Van Bijsterveld's questions. Precisely because her party was in the Lower House for this proposal, I was pleased with that. I would like to do even more to convince Mrs Van Bijsterveld. I will go through the points she mentioned one by one. First of all, she spoke of the justification. Why is it necessary? I've just gone into that. That is in line with her fifth point: shouldn't you put it in the hands of the constitutionalist? Shouldn't you let the Constitutionalist decide on the way to be appointed? I have already answered that. I think it is up to the legislator to decide on the method of appointment. So I think it's in good hands there. This must be decided by a simple majority in the Lower House and then in the Upper House. This can very well lead to the consensus that the crown appointment remains. That's what my note says. From a game theoretic perspective, you can see all kinds of variants. Someone can say: my appreciation for the crown appointment is so high. For the Acts: I now keep my hand at average height. Someone can also say: my appreciation for an election by the council is higher and my appreciation for a direct election is much lower. I'm not saying I do, but someone could have this opinion. Depending on the intensity of the opinion, it is just the question of what would become the outcome of a decision by a majority. We do not have that in hand, but it is democracy that ultimately a decision is taken. Mrs Van Bijsterveld asked about the tension with the Constitution on other points. That is an important point. I haven't gone into that yet. It may then be about the head of the council. That's what they've just been asked about. I am referring to Article 125, but there may also be tension with other articles in the Constitution. If the method of appointment is out of the Constitution, the method of appointment can be decided by ordinary law and there will be no tension with the Constitution on that point, i.e. as regards the method of appointment. But what if, from the point of view of the relationship between the method of appointment and the role in the municipal system, one chooses a role in the municipal system that is at odds with other parts of the Constitution for other reasons? Then one should first amend those other parts of the Constitution, then there is a first reading and a second reading in the next period before such a proposal can be made. Suppose one opts for a presidential system that is the most far-reaching form of the city council, where the mayor can send the city council home. Then that would be at odds with the head of the council. This would require an additional constitutional change. But I think this should be part of the debate that the Chambers can have if the way of appointment itself is no longer established in the Constitution. I have already mentioned consistency. Mrs Van Bijsterveld's fourth point concerns the role of the King's Commissioner. It could remain as it is without the crowning title in the Constitution. It's open. It is up to the legislator to decide on this. As far as I am concerned, it is not automatic that the discussions on the method of appointment of the mayor and of the King's Commissioner should be resolved simultaneously and in the same way. Indeed, the King's Commissioner is also a wealthy body. It is a modest role, as Mr Schouw says, but it is a slightly different one. It seems to me that there would be two different legislative proposals. A distinction can be made, if you wish, in what one would like to decide. I have already responded to Mrs Van Bijsterveld's fifth point, as well as to the question of timing. I have already answered most of Mrs Huijbregts' questions. How do I imagine the exchange of views on the two notes? I have already answered that. The correct answer to the multiplechoice question is in my view: not now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u65	So that's "A."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u66	Yeah, that's "A."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u67	That's the right answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u68	I've lost it for a while. Can the Minister repeat the multiple-choice questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u69	I thought the answer was enough, but now I have to have the question again. Mrs. Huijbregts says she's not gonna help. I can look it up in the lyrics. The question was whether there... I'll look up that question shortly, because I don't want to waste precious time. Mr. Chairman. I have already spoken about the appointment of the CoR. By the way, he has always been called "King's Commissioner." For the record, there has never been a "Commissioner of the Queen" in the Constitution. The function was only called that because we had so many queens. I have answered the question of what could happen before second reading and what I am prepared to do about it. I've agreed to take the lead on that point. Mr Engels asked whether I agree that the mayor's office was not fully incorporated into the constitution. The answer to that is A. That is: yes, I agree. Mr Engels asked how the current method of appointment relates to the crown appointment as it currently stands in the Constitution. Mr Meijer also raised that question. That was one of my first questions when I took up this whole subject. You could say that the city council has already appointed it. If this were possible, for example, an election by the city council would also be possible immediately after the municipal elections. That's one of the variants I mentioned in my note. As a beta, I say that legal science is not an exact science. You always have to do it with the judgment of others. A good friend of mine once said: a good lawyer is someone who can predict what another lawyer thinks of something. I know I'm surrounded by very good lawyers in the CZW department. So we can reasonably predict what other lawyers will find of something. Then our prediction is that what is happening now with a little good will could just fit within the constitutional framework of crown appointment. After all, it is a recommendation and the Minister does not have to accept it in theory. However, if you go one step further, if people can apply or if there is an open procedure, it really does not fit into the current Constitution. That is also my answer to Mr Meijer's question as to whether you could introduce the Belgian variant without a constitutional change. According to the state of legal science, the answer to this is that this cannot be done. The current practice is just at the border. Mr Nagel had a clear story, with a clear choice, with which he in fact announces what his position will be if there is a discussion about the method of appointment after possible destitutionalisation. At least that's what I'm knotting in my ears. I have tried in my general section to answer Mr De Vries' questions as much as possible. He also asked what might or might not fit into the crown nomination. Could you fit the direct election in? Again, that is a question of legal interpretation, but I do not think it is possible. He asked me if I had any complaints about the reappointment procedure. The answer to that question is that this happens. I am aware of these signals, and they also give rise to a legislative proposal now before the Chamber which seeks to strengthen the safeguards in the re-appointment procedure. This can count on broad support from the VNG, the Dutch Society of Mayors and the King's Circle of Commissioners. That's what we're trying to do. Mr De Lange also spoke on behalf of the Animal Eloquent Party on this proposal. He said: it is quite simple that it is a question of whether the Constitutionalist should decide whether it can do so by ordinary law. In fact, that is also the summary of my view. That is the essence of what is now before us. It is, of course, in charge of a lot of history, but it is the essence. Mr Meijer gave another historical overview. I have already answered his question as to whether the Belgian model would be possible under the current Constitution. In my view, that would not be possible. Mr Thissen asked about the risk of going back and forth in view. I answered that. He also asked what the relationship of the method of appointment is to the increasing involvement of the population with the local government. In fact, this increasing involvement speaks for itself. That's an autonomous movement we're seeing. This is also reflected in the Local Democracy Agenda that I have issued. In a future discussion on the method of appointment, if possible, I certainly expect that increasing involvement of the population will also be an important consideration for the legislator at that time. Mr. Thissen asked about the research commissioned by the Dutch Society of Mayors by the University of Tilburg. The report on this subject contained interesting notions, covering all the relevant aspects of the post and the value of good governance, including in the context of the method of appointment. However, it is only after the constitutionalisation that it makes sense to go into more detail. Mr Van Dijk asked about the follow-up steps. I've already answered that. Mr Holdijk raised an important point, namely the role of the mayor in matters of public order and in security. How does that relate to variants of the elected mayor? That is a point of attention. You can't go over that lightly. It will ultimately have to be a consideration in that discussion. As an important part of the choices you make, you will have to realize what it means for someone who is ultimately at the control of public order and security. That is an important point of consideration. I would like to return to Mrs Huijbregts' question, on which the answer was 'not now'. That was her question: in considering Chapter 7 of the Constitution, you state that there is no need to amend Chapter 7. Did you mean "never" or "not now"? I meant "not now." It was indeed a response to that question. I know that the D66 Group feels differently. Isn't it time to take that whole chapter 7 on domestic governance? It is clear from the reflection that, I assume, we will go into it at another time that there are parts here and there that make that change necessary, but that I do not see a need to rewrite the whole chapter immediately. That is not now and not never, for eternity, amen. Let me look at the remaining points. Mrs Van Bijsterveld asked about the crowning of other posts. I'd already mentioned it by letter. She specifically asked about ministers and secretaries of state. It would be my tendency to say that they are now part of our state system, also because there is no separate law on that. Article of the Constitution states that law governs the administration of the municipality, but there is no true state administration, at least for how political governance is set up. It is, after all, customary by the Constitution and, furthermore, at the present time, that a number of elements should be established. I wouldn't necessarily want to link that one-on-one. I assume that we are talking on other occasions about Chapter 7 of the Constitution. I said a few words about the head of the council. Strictly speaking, this does not include the power of recommendation on the appointment or dismissal of the mayor, but it should be involved in the more far-reaching variants that have been discussed in my note. So that subject certainly comes back if there were any discussion on the way the mayor was appointed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u70	Historically, it doesn't belong to that. There were always two articles, one on the head of the council and one on the crown's right to be appointed. However, historical and political development has been such that the Crown's right to be appointed has been sucked out by the Board's headship. The question is: isn't that one of them, from now on?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u71	I understand what Mr De Vries is saying. In fact, it has become part of the power of the Council's confidence committee to have a decisive say in this. It was never meant to include the head of the council, but it has become so in practice. I think that this is a serious issue when deciding whether or not to amend the law on the method of appointment. After all, the far-reaching variant of "a directly elected mayor" who would send the city council home would be contrary to the head of the council.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u72	This teaches me that evolution has been that the headship, the power, the bossship of the council now apparently also includes the appointment of the mayor and, at the same time, the chairman of the council. If you're gonna take care of it differently, then you'd undress the head of the board to some extent. The question is: does the Minister think that this is acceptable?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u73	I can confirm that there has been evolution. What we have now is certainly not a product of intelligent design. I do not want to anticipate the debate on the desirable variants and their consequences. In this respect, I would also like to restrict myself, as the initiator did.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u74	I am not going to anticipate the discussion with the Minister, but I understand what Mr De Vries is trying to do. The main body of the Board, as provided for in the Constitution, relates to the extent of the powers of regulation and administration. The dualisation in the Municipal Act has become something else. There's probably tension there. You can think differently about this, but certainly also the way in which the method of appointment is now regulated in the Municipal Act, ending with a recommendation, is not an indication that the headship of the city council would now suddenly imply the appointment of the mayor. That's such a living state law that I don't think even the CDA can find it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u75	Thank you, that is in line with what I also answered in answer to this question. I believe that I have answered all the questions addressed to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u76	I thank the Minister. We now have the second term from the Chamber. Mr De Vries has requested a short suspension before we begin that second deadline.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u77	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the initiator and the Minister for their answer to the questions. I must say that I have listened with great attention to the various considerations. In my first term, I explained how the CDA Group is dealing with the proposal. I have made three points in this regard: firstly, the burden of proof for de-constitutionalisation, secondly, administrative relations and the set of tasks in connection with the Constitution, consistency and stability, the Commissioner as a state body, the method of appointment as a result of a process and not as its starting point and, thirdly, the desirability at the moment. If I let the debate and the response of the initiator and the minister work on me so far, I can see that there is still one difference of opinion. That difference concerns the question of whether the method of appointment of the mayor should be regulated at the level of the Constitution or at the level of the law. Then what vision do you have of the role of the Constitution in this? How far do you have to go, with regard to the burden of proof, in motivating why anything should be removed from the Constitution? Is such a process of constitutionalisation the starting point of a discussion or should it be a result of a discussion that has already taken place? It is therefore always a question of the relationship between the Constitution and the law. I have noted that the reasons for this proposal mainly refer to the history and history of this proposal. According to the CDA's belief, a very long history of a discussion on a method of appointment of a mayor or, perhaps to a lesser extent, of a Commissioner, is not in itself a reason to change the constitution, in this case a deconstitutionalisation. There is a long discussion, but that does not justify a deconstitutionalisation. As far as the social and legal need for change is concerned, the following: If I have listened carefully to the initiator, he always points out that the expectation or the hope that a proposal will be adopted in a procedure such as this is sufficient social or legal need for change. This was also noted in the written procedure. In our opinion, that is a bit harsh and a bit formal. If that is the case, then there is not much left of the Constitution as a whole. We have understood well, also from the answers to our questions and from the answers of other groups by the initiator, that the aim of destitutionalisation is mainly to create room for a different method of appointment by law and the discussion involved. In that case, however, we do not fully understand, and even a little half-heartedly, that the initiator has limited his own space by leaving Article 125, paragraph 1, the head of the council, untouched. In various variants that have also been discussed here, for example the direct election of the mayor by the people, a point which has been raised by various groups, tension will arise in particular. If chosen, you will have the very strange situation of a double constitutional change. Well, that doesn't exactly suit us. Moreover, we think it is rather artificial to separate the debate on how the mayor and the Commissioner should be appointed from the issue of the right level of regulation in the future. That's gonna do a little wringing. I would like to give an example of what Mr Engels had to say, which was most pronounced in his plea for decoupling, and which even called for the proposed constitutional amendment not to impose political-dogmatic positions on the most desirable method of appointment. It almost sounded like a reproach to groups who did come up with their own preferences. It turns out it's hard to keep this completely separate. That was also the case in his term, because of course he had to come up with what he is most in favour of. I would therefore like to make the following point. The initiator wants to make a very sharp separation between the proposal of deconstitutionalisation as a formal issue and the content of a possible future appointment of the mayor. However, does he want to continue this very sharp separation at second reading, or is that something that will only apply at first reading? In other words, is he prepared to link his own proposal in the future to a certain choice of substance for the appointment of a mayor after a discussion has taken place? I am very curious about that, because I have the feeling that he is now categorically rejecting it. I have to ask the Minister what his position is on this matter. I understand that he would like to facilitate a discussion about a future municipal order with everything, including the mayor's manner of appointment. How far does that go? How does he see the link with the Constitutional proposal? These are my only essential questions right now. Finally. It has been pointed out by various political groups, as well as by the initiator and the Minister, that despite a very long discussion, the Constitution has not shown any substantial changes in this respect. The conclusion can therefore also be used that there is no basis for change. There is discussion about it and there may be wishes, but there may not be enough support. How do the initiator and the Minister assess this conclusion? It will be clear that the CDA Group was critical and remains critical of the formal proposal for deconstitutionalisation, but this does not in itself alter our willingness to discuss the content of the future discussion on how a municipal system should look. However, we do attach the right order.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u78	Mr. Chairman. I thank both gentlemen for their response. During their input I tried to make some sharpness through interruptions here and there. It is very important for the VVD to have clarity on two points. That is the point and the need for the amendment of the constitution, as Mrs Van Bijsterveld said, and above all the point that rethinking on the local level must be taken forward. Of course, it's still a chicken or egg story. That is how we entered into the debate. When I listen to the speeches in this way, it is not just the VV Group that struggles with the question of whether you are starting to change the Constitution or ending with it. It may well be that, in the first term, all we have to say is that we are going to consider a constitutional change, but that does not relieve us of the obligation to think further about it. Mr Schouw once again outlined history. It was an interesting day in that respect. Thank you also to Mr Meijer. Mr Schouw also referred to the history of the second reading of the Constitutional Change in 2005. That actually reminded me of what I brought in in the first term and which I am still trying to get sharp about, because there are some contradictions here and there, not only in Mr Schouw's response but above all in that of the Minister. This could, of course, happen again, as far as my group is concerned, if there was no prospect of a broad-based final picture in this interim period. I would also like to thank both gentlemen for their response to the fact that, of course, the way in which the King's Commissioner is appointed is perfectly possible. If I listen to it correctly, I think I've heard that that might be obvious. I understand Mr Schouw's problem and position. He speaks as if he's put on the hand brake and as if he's tight in the seat belt when he's not tempted. You feel that he's having trouble thinking about the position in the future. He pretends to be selfless at the moment to clean up the Constitution from unnecessary ballast and as if he were neutral in the future. Yet here and there I hear the statement that he is not entirely satisfied with the current method of appointment. Finally, he said that a broad discussion was of great importance, so that a second round of this proposal for a constitutional change would clarify a number of questions. The VVD would rather have those questions clarified. The Minister also elaborates on why. I focus on what I then translate as a commitment. He says he's willing to take control. There is also talk of 'facilitating'. I have to say, there's a big difference between facilitating and directing. It may coincide, but then it is called something else. Can the Minister, perhaps at a later date, indicate how and at what time he intends to carry out this direction, how he sees it? I would like to know now whether he sees himself as a facilitator, in my opinion, that is more the stagehand than the director, or as a director. Because I don't see him as much as a stagehand, but you never know. I hear him say it all the time, but perhaps it is up to me and I am very allergic to it, that this constitutional change must first be completed before a choice can be made for an appointment: that is not necessary at all, because then we will be much further. However, it would be quite possible for us to really get a final picture in the intervening period. After all, we all know that this cabinet has some time left, so it will be 2018. I'd like to be more clear about that. Just now we did a little quiz in which I gave the wrong answer because I always rely on answer a.............................................................................................................................................................................................. I take it from that that it could be involved in the discussion on the method of appointment. I advocated that, too. Finally, I note that the deadlines mentioned by the Minister are not ours. We want clarity before that. Should the VVD already have grounds for considering this proposal for a constitutional change, a decision on that change at second reading will also depend on the state of play at that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u79	Mr. Chairman. I thank the initiator and the Minister for their reactions to our input. I have rarely been as content with the reactions in a parliamentary debate as today. I have nothing to say about that. I don't have any further questions. You wouldn't have seen much of that either. There is, however, another point on which Mrs Huijbregts has made a proposal. That is a very relevant point in her contribution. That is the question: what are we going to do between the first and second readings? I have just written it down: the VVD would like a debate on the context and position of the mayor, including the method of appointment. It should also include the quality of local democracy in the context of active citizenship, new domains, the dualist governance model, the head of the board and the relationship between the board and the college, with the result being a final picture after that de-constitutionalisation, however it is further completed. With all these elements, that is a proposal with quite a lot of ambition. That goes a lot further than just the mayor. It actually concerns all aspects of the mayor, not only the institutional side but also the whole functional side. The question is whether that's wise, if that's what we're gonna do. We are discussing a great deal in the Netherlands. We have endless reports, investigations, studies and evaluations, especially when it comes to our constitutional system. These usually lead to beautiful reports, which are carried out minimally. I believe that the outcome of the exercise envisaged by the VVD should not be that it leads nowhere. We have at least one point, although the continuation of the status quo in the state system is likely to be good for the CDA. Thinking again about Mrs Huijbregt's proposal, which I had promised, I see interesting similarities with the note on Chapter 7. Moreover, there are not all aspects; the aspect of local autonomy is a slightly different subject. I also heard the Minister mention that he is in the process of reflecting on the municipal law. That is also an interesting point, and that raises the question of whether we should strengthen this proposal from the VVD Group so that it can play a better role in what the VVD is aiming at, namely to clarify between the first and second readings, not just the position of the mayor, but in the context of local government. As far as I am concerned, this is mainly about the institutional aspects of the Constitution. This includes Article 125 on the headship, without confirming Mr De Vries' view that the mayor's appointment is already decided in the headship. Article 129 also has to do with this, and some of it also has to do with Article 124. If the outcome of the discussion were to be that it should be involved in the constitutional process, then we should start with a first reading. Of course, that's a problem. My point is that in that context, in my opinion, we should opt for a more defined and problem-oriented approach to that debate. I'll look at the minister, too. A proper procedure must then be followed. I ask him whether he is prepared to make a proposal on how he sees this debate in his role of director in the short term. As far as I am concerned, he can also take a certain line. I would not be in favour of involving the entire functioning of local democracy in this; that would be yet another evaluation of dualisation. He should focus on the relations within local government when we move on to changes in the mayor's office. I ask him to make us a proposal that we can discuss in both chambers. As far as I am concerned, that does not have to lead to a final picture, because I am not sure what the final picture should be and whether a debate can lead to a final picture. Nor have I heard the Minister specifically say that he is looking for a final picture. That would be in line with previous debates we had with him. I would certainly like to say to my group that it is worth having such a debate in this way, so more focused, if this first reading can be completed. Even without that whole process, my group would certainly be prepared to support the legislative proposal. That's what I want to say. I have the impression now that I need to stand still.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u80	It may be my place in the Chamber that Mr Engels looked at me. That is why I would like to respond to him through you, Mr President. I'm happy with his addition. I also walk with you long enough to know that if something, an investigation or a discussion, is in too big pockets, it eventually leads nowhere and that eventually the bag only becomes army. A demarcation is very important; I did not mention all the points he mentioned either. I asked the Minister to come forward with a proposal. I think we are waiting together for the Minister's reaction with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u81	Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u82	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr De Vries.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u83	I was waiting for Senator Nagel to go to the chair in the atmosphere of the beautiful battle song you raised this morning.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u84	In my youth I was already praised for my quick understanding. I am fully convinced, and I hope that this will be done in Mr De Vries' second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u85	Yes, that's a good wish from you. Mr. Chairman. I'm running a couple of dots. I have already indicated that, of course, you must use history in the time when it is written. Everything that was said in 1920 or so about desirability or non-wishfulness is of course less relevant than what you are saying now, at the moment. The urgent need, therefore, whether legal or social, remains in the middle. Mr Schouw and the Minister both say: if you adopt the law, then that has proved necessary. In my opinion, this has been richer in content, so I find that quite unsatisfactory. I found it very interesting that the Minister said about the main question: in fact, the office of mayor does not belong in the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u86	...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u87	I'm sorry, I can't hear you. The minister's calling for something, but I can't hear him.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u88	I believe that the Minister says: the method of appointment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u89	Yeah, it doesn't belong in the Constitution. At the same time, it is even stated in his own note that the method of appointment is very much related, in fact, to the functioning of the municipal system. One would say that the functioning of the municipal system is so essential that if that is related to the method of appointment, you might have to put that method of appointment in the Constitution. You can judge otherwise, but municipalities are the heart of our democracy and its teaching. I would think that there is no reason to say that it should not be, that it should not be. You say that it is not a core element in the state system, but it seems to me to be a core element.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u90	I do not want to respond to everything every time, but Mr De Vries is now referring to a point in itself. He tries to say that the position of the mayor is so important that it is difficult to imagine that he would not have any constitutional embedding. I could agree with him on that one. I am surprised, however, that he places such emphasis on the method of appointment, that this is the whole crux, that the position of the mayor is based on it in a constitutional sense and that this element then determines how local government should or can function. If you consider this to be so important, far more important aspects of the position and role of the mayor, are one-headed authority and the like, whether or not they belong in the Constitution rather than the way in which they are appointed? Wouldn't it be more reasonable to reason that way?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u91	I think that is a very good way of thinking. Only at the moment there is a proposal to get something out of the Constitution as far as the mayor is concerned. You have just argued in a discourse with Mrs Huijbregts to discuss several articles. This could indeed be the result of a broader consideration: how should the system be located and what is the role of the mayor in it? It's all open. Today, however, we are debating the removal of the form of appointment from the Constitution. There is no difference of opinion between the Minister and the Dutch Society of Mayors. Nor is there any tension with the way my group looks at this. This is quite decisive for the functioning of the system.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u92	It is difficult to understand why, for this reason, only the method of appointment, now that it is regulated by the Constitution, would be so decisive for the entire functioning of local government.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u93	Then you do not understand the Minister's note and the memorandum of the Dutch Society of Mayors, because that is what it says. I'm sorry, but it's in there. You can't agree with that, but it's in there. The Minister says to Mr Holdijk: I don't know what's going to change, maybe nothing changes at all. Then there is a rather burning question: do we accept a constitutional proposal of which we have no idea what will come out of it? Maybe nothing changes at all, the Minister says. And then, if we adopt the proposal and it goes further at second reading? Mr Schouw says: we all have hesitations, but we can also make them happen at second reading. I do not think that is a way of dealing with constitutional proposals. If you find the reasons for the proposal unconvincing, then you should not be in favour of it. The constitution is so serious that you should not just say: we go on without having any idea what we really want to achieve. I very much regret that Mr Schouw, speaking on behalf of the House of Representatives, is unable to say anything about this. I think it has something to do with him trying to commit two opposing groups that are going to fight each other about what's going to happen. That too may not be such a good basis for a constitutional change. I asked a question about a possible situation that would arise in an unlikely attempt to get the Constitution to lead to a direct election. Is there a situation of two captains on a ship? So what kind of conflicts arise in that administration? How do you guarantee the unity of the board under these circumstances? It's a serious question. The Minister may say: we will see later. Mr Schouw may say the same, but I would like to hear that from their mouths. I also get comments from the Minister and the initiator on the Society's remark that the current situation is workable. Is that of any significance to them or do they say that it may be, but we are going to question it and perhaps we are going to go to another situation that is not workable in their eyes; that is not so relevant to us? If one says that this works well, if the citizens think that the mayor is working so well and if the mayors themselves don't have so much trouble with it, then the question is why it all needs to be changed. I have just said, in the event of interruption, that the head of the council and the method of appointment in the Constitution are traditionally separate from each other, because the way of appointment that was separate from that principality has always been implemented. In this respect, over the past few decades, the Council has drawn all the power to itself. We could pretend today that that is going to change in the future, apart from system changes, but I don't think so. I think city councils say this is part of our position. That is where the legislator can intervene, by saying: we are going to call that into question. But my preference to give us an account of that in advance is very big. The fact that we are being told that we need to adopt this bill so that we can then have a discussion with each other, which we may not expect at all to change, is a little lean for a constitutional change. I come to mayors and ministers. The Constitution writes down things that are not entirely true. I just pointed that out this morning. If you say that the King appoints and dismisses ministers, he will indeed sign the relevant forms, but he cannot, of course, dismiss a minister. That used to be different, but that's all changed. In the Constitution, when it comes to the appointment of the mayor, it has become so that municipal councils are involved. Why should anyone who thinks that a city council is about that be attracted by the perspective that it's about to change? Why would you have to do that? What's the attractiveness of that? I believe that someone else has already pointed that out, but what is really interesting about a change that you do not want to say to yourself what you mean by it, while others, including the mayors themselves, may be satisfied with? I'm getting to the final picture. Mrs Huijbregts asked for a final picture before we start a second reading. Mr Schouw stated in the written debate that he did not feel that way. There will be no items from him, not even for the second reading, because then the vote will be exactly the same. It's just a constitutional issue, so it has to come out. I am very curious how he responds to Mrs Huijbregts' proposal, but it is important. It is also important for the debate on the Constitution, because if you leave the head of the board intact, as Mr Schouw does, you will also exclude a number of methods of appointment, for example in a presidential system, a system that Mrs Huijbregts envisages. By the way, I read in a Thorbecke-oration by Mr Engels that he would feel the same way. But why hasn't that been made possible in this review? According to Mr Schouw, the law must be about the appointment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u94	For the Acts, however, I did not mention a preferred model.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u95	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u96	I didn't mention a preference model.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u97	But it might just be that you think that the head of the council should be different.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u98	If my group were to agree, you would certainly have heard that in my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u99	Okay, that's good news.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u100	For the sake of clarity, I said that Article 125 should be included in the discussion on the future method of appointment. So "not now," that's answer b of the multiple-choice questions, is also my answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u101	But you do think this is necessary, because it could probably be models that are also interesting or relevant, as Mr Engels has already said in an address. It could be anything. Mr. Engels wants a level playing field. I should have asked during his term what he actually meant by that. Can he talk to me about that for a second? In some parliaments it is customary for your colleagues to ask a question as well. But if Mr Engels does not need an answer, I cannot, of course, tempt him to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u102	I remember using that term, but I would appreciate it if you could clarify the context in which I made that comment. Otherwise, I find it difficult to answer the question of what I meant by that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u103	I don't have the stenogram on hand. You said there must be a level playing field. I don't remember the context; if you don't, we'll figure it out later. I come to the stability of the system, a very important point. One of the aims of the system is that the stability of the system will soon be much easier to change. Is that good for the public administration? Mr Schouw does not think that a yojo policy is being pursued. Minister Plasterk also has great confidence that this is not going to happen at all and that there is great resistance there. You have to have that confidence, but of course the Constitution is there to record some things a little better than others. Where the mayor's method of appointment is so central, I would think that he is really eligible for it. Mr Schouw says: we all have hesitation in a legislative proposal, let us overcome it, because then we can move on. That is a view, although it is not really mine. Why does Mr Schouw think that the Constitution should be treated like this? That surprises me somewhat. How do we get that final picture? It is quite possible to organise conferences, and that is what the Minister is going to do or to make demand points notes and to discuss them with each other in the Second and First Chambers. That is all very useful to find out what people want. Again, our preference would have been to do all that for this treatment. Without adopting this bill, it could also be very good and probably useful, given the diversity of views. But we will of course await the answer of the two gentlemen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u104	Mr. Chairman. Since I am not as quick to understand as Mr Nagel, I have the need to come back to the matter in a short time in the second term. I would like to begin by thanking the initiator and the Minister for their very comprehensive answer to the questions in a very broad area. I think we can see back to a good debate. Moreover, I agree with the view of the initiator and the Minister. That's an emotion that doesn't happen to me every week. That is a special feeling, which I am happy with anyway, because the exception is the bitch in the porridge. I don't know if that's the right metaphor, but it's clear what I mean. My mother would have said, count your blessings. This afternoon is one of those blessings. It has been said many times today: the proposal for an own-initiative act essentially amounts to a not very difficult story. At the same time, let us be brief and clear: the groups of the OSF and the Party for Animals believe that the simple question put in the bill can be answered with a simple yes. That's what we're gonna do next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u105	Mr. Chairman. I thank Mr Schouw and Minister Plasterk. Mr Schouw has made a good proposal. The Constitution does not decide on an unchanging method of appointment. In future, we will make this method of appointment a little more flexible in an ordinary law. I can even imagine making that law so flexible that the city council itself decides how to elect, i.e. by the council or by the individual electorate. Perhaps that could be the compromise on which parties with different preferences can find each other. In our neighbour Germany, too, there are several models side by side. The dualisation of our municipal councils also affects the election of the mayor, including a mayor elected by the council. Until the recent past, only sitting council members could be elected alderman and no alternate outsiders. Election of a mayor by the council of course also meant a mayor from the council. That model still prefers the SP. If we maintain the dualisation that my party did not admire, it will have consequences for mayor candidates. There will then be room for travelling professional drivers from outside, but they will not be given the exclusive right. Local group chairmen and aldermen will thus have more opportunities for flow than at present. We'll see that as a profit. I was somewhat disappointed by the answer given by the Minister for the Interior on extending the interpretation of Article 131 (1). In fact, he assumes that the rally that has actually taken place so far for decades can be done, but that a further retraction poses problems. The question is whether it is a "further" extension, so let me say "other." Why shouldn't there be another attraction? I think that Mr Schouw's reasoning is stronger, namely that at least there will be a social debate around it again, but that does not mean that it is tied to a border. I would like to point out to both Mr Schouw and Mr Plasterk that the flexible interpretation that has shifted over time may prove to be the only way of renewing something in twenty years' time. My impression is that both want renewal. I do not think it would be wise to block it in advance by a limited interpretation of this article of the Constitution. The vote in a week's time is only a first step. There will be a second reading and then corresponding legislation. It is uncertain whether we will be ready in time for the municipal elections of 2018. Because it is only a first step, we are always faced with the question of what is going on: what is the intention of the initiator and of the minister? There is probably not enough certainty about this today. After the adoption of the initiative proposal, there are three options. One: Everything remains more or less the same for the time being; there will be a co-assessment from the council, but it has no steering role. That is at most a beautification of the already functioning system. Two: There will be a mayor elected on the initiative of and by the council, probably with the same tasks and powers as now. Three: The mayor is elected in a popular vote. That is probably a much more powerful mayor in the longer term than it has been so far. For the SP then the central question becomes what space this offers for the VVD model, the further variant of the D66 model. It is the Luijten/Van Heukelum model, which I mentioned after Mrs Huijbregts's interruption. I am no longer sure whether the VVD is in favour of this model today; I can interpret Mrs Huijbregts' statements differently. If it were to go that way, it would be predictable that SP and VVD might not belong to the same two thirds majority in second reading. Last week I participated in a delegation of First and Second Chambers, who had an informative discussion with the new Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs of Sri Lanka. He reported that his government will put an end to the presidential system in force in recent years, in which the president had disproportionate power and an ethnic conflict was settled unilaterally, and even violently. His announcement that the primacy of parliamentary democracy would be restored was welcomed by all present representatives of Dutch parties. It would be strange to introduce a system for Dutch municipalities which is rightly being democratized elsewhere. In order to clarify what excrements a strong mayor standing above the council can lead to, I would like to draw attention to the state of play in some emerging million cities in the Third World. In countries with a less democratic tradition there are powerful mayors who want to put their mark on urban societies. They flatten shacks, without providing better, replacement living space. They lay wide motorways across the city. Or they turn a popular inner city park into a construction site for a large, new shopping center. Their drive for action often leads to false progress, which harms people and the environment, and which ultimately doesn't help anyone. Who wants similar undemocratic situations here? I don't think anyone's gonna be here for a while. The advocates of a directly elected mayor should also take this into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u106	I did not know that a position of the past VVD in 2015 is so much in the global economy and world history, but I would like to remind Mr Meijer once again that I did not speak today about a preferred variant. We, the VVD, believe that we should open this discussion with each other. Otherwise, I would have put it on the table here and we could have done some business today. Then there is no need for a substantive discussion, with all the scenarios and possibilities that the Constitution offers or limits. I would have liked to have said that, because otherwise this is going to lead a very personal life at the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u107	That was an interesting point made by Mrs Huijbregts, but she cannot blame me for having looked at what her predecessors strongly advocated at the time. If she wishes to make that clear, I only welcome it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u108	I also remember Mr Meijer's party being against everything in the past.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u109	We are still sometimes against and sometimes against things. It used to be, and it is now. However, in the early days, our propaganda was very much directed towards what we were opposed to. Then we ran a campaign for what we were for. Mr. Chairman. Together with the Labour Party, the SP advocates a mayor elected by the Council. We disagree about the extent to which this elected mayor has already been achieved. We are more critical of the current situation with secrecy and pre-selection. Too often, this process leads to outside professional directors, and would result in a different type of mayor than an ordinary election by the council. The Dutch Society of Mayors may be satisfied with the current situation, but the local players do not have to be. Thus, unlike the Labour Party, the SP does not consider that the mayor elected by the Council has in fact been largely realised. By a mayor elected by the council, we mean candidacy in a public council meeting according to Belgian model, not a secret pre-selection and finally the choice between two applicants. So we do not think that it is actually going so well that the change in the constitution is no longer urgent. I intend to advise my group to vote in favour of this initiative proposal at first reading. It's okay if the procedure can continue. The proposed constitutional change could make it possible to elect the mayor by the city council, which we have always wanted.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u110	I would like to ask Mr Meijer a question. He said just now in a few sentences: we are also in favour of a mayor elected by the Council, but unlike the Labour Party, we believe that it should be possible in a public meeting. There are plenty of ways to arrange that differently. That's all in the city law right now. There is therefore no need for a constitutional change. There are also many other ways of achieving a mayor who may be more democratic. They're all in the municipal law, too. There is no need to change the Constitution. So I just wanted to say to Mr Meijer that it would be a good thing if he brought in the municipal law before he said: I want it to be different. 'Cause that's how it's gonna be.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u111	Mr De Vries and I agree. That is also in line with what I said earlier, namely that the question is whether a constitutional change is an absolute necessity to achieve this effect. If it can be achieved in another way, we agree. I mentioned it because I sense some satisfaction from Mr De Vries with the current situation. I do not share it, despite the fact that we have the same preference for the direction in which it should go.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u112	I am talking at constitutional level perhaps with some satisfaction about the situation, but I am very sorry that we have not seen a chance to make changes to the municipal law to ensure that all kinds of rigidities in the system are resolved. There really are complaints about the system and its functioning. It can be done better and it can be done democratically. Mr Meijer also read Minister Plasterk's note. It sets out a number of suggestions that can be introduced in this way, without the need for amendment of the Constitution. So I would say, at least let's take advantage of those opportunities, no matter what happens to this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u113	With Mr De Vries, I believe that these opportunities should be exploited. That is also in line with what I said in the first term. I had come to the end of my speech with the statement that my group is likely to be in favour of this proposal. With that agreement, we are not taking an advance on the second reading, with a two-thirds majority required. If, as in 2005, there is a government agreement based on a mayor elected separately from the city council, we reserve the right not to agree at that stage. This is particularly true if it turns out to be a strong mayor who is above the Council in breach of Article 125 of the Constitution. Then a situation may arise in which, like the spokesman for the Labour Party, we find the proposal even worse than the unsatisfactory regulation currently in force.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u114	Well, Mr President, how should we evaluate this debate and what should I advise my group? First of all, on behalf of GroenLinks, I would like to thank the initiator and the Minister for the detailed answer of all our first-term contributions. I do not want to be tempted to tell myself on behalf of GroenLinks as to what is the most desirable method of appointment. At the same time, I can see in advance that at second reading this constitutional reform is going to fall. The initiator also has 2005 clearly on his retina. I was there at the time, though I was not the spokesperson at the time, but my predecessor Leo Platvoet. The proposal then fell because at least the PvdA, the SP and GroenLinks but possibly also other parties were not unwilling in principle against the constitutional revision but they certainly did not want to take over the way in which they were appointed as they were in the bosom of the cabinet. I understand that the initiator, sometimes even a bit cramped, kept away from any method of appointment, because otherwise it might already be killed at first reading. Mrs Huijbregts asks for a final picture on behalf of the VVD before we talk about this constitutional revision at the second reading in the new composition. I believe that the sword of Damocles is hanging above this constitutional review. As the debate progressed and I listened to the good speech of the initiator and the Minister that his competent people were here in the debate, I began to wonder more and more why this proposal is really necessary. Why do we not, on the basis of ordinary legislation, engage in the debate on the method of appointment, after a social discussion, a political-administrative discussion in society, hear all kinds of mayors, aldermen, municipal secretaries and the like, who, on behalf of 393 municipalities, give the local authorities, with all their heavier tasks and responsibilities, the best possible form and content for the benefit of the communities of people? I have tried a few times in the event of interruption to clarify for myself what stands in the way of ordinary legislation on the most desirable method of appointment if we maintain the current constitutional provision on the appointment of the mayor. There's nothing that's gonna stand in the way. I do not hear anyone else here saying that it is absolutely essential to amend the Constitution in order to make room for the debate on the way in which it is appointed. In short, I am confused and I am going to my group with this confusion. And you'll see what came out of that next week. I wish us and you very much strength in that!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u115	Mr. Chairman. I would, of course, like to take advantage of this second term in the first place to thank both the initiator and the minister for their first-term reactions to the contributions of the Chamber, including my own. In the second term, I would like to make three further comments. These are not new issues but points that I have raised earlier. First of all, this concerns the justification for the need for constitutional change. I must also say after today, having heard the initiator and the ruler, that I am not convinced of that need for constitutional change. I therefore tend rather to use the counter-argument for amendment, in the sense that after 1848 this article apparently did not need to be amended and therefore the convincing need for change did not reach me. So my conclusion is actually that the constitutional change is considered necessary because it is a barrier to something other than the current method of appointment. Of course, I have heard that even after the second reading of this constitutional amendment, if it so happens, there may not be any change, but I would like to point out that the justification and argumentation of the need for this constitutional change lies in the fact that this is now a barrier to a different method of appointment. The second point concerns the question of the national interest in the appointment of the mayor, the Crown appointment. We all agree, I think, that the mayor has now become a municipal body. I also recalled this in my contribution in the first term. I would like to point out that the same mayor, who is a municipal body, has super-municipal interests. With these super-municipal interests, I particularly refer to the maintenance of public order and security. I can't see that that would be a purely municipal matter. According to municipal law, the current mayor is both a man or woman of the municipality and a man or woman of the governorate. That double task is also visible, although perhaps symbolic, in the mayor's chain of office with the national weapon on one side and the municipal weapon on the other. Then there is my third point. More or less in anticipation of the possibility of this legislative proposal being adopted next week and of Mr Schouw and we could still see the successful conclusion of a second reading, I would like to make the following comment, which is aimed in particular at the directly elected mayor and local dualist democracy. If the mayor is to become a political leader, can the dualist municipal government still be maintained? That is a serious question for our groups. That dualist system is based on two equivalent bodies: the Council and the College. If the leader is appointed by the council, the council runs on the mayor's leash. On paper it may be the other way around, but in countries where we know the directly elected mayor, I am thinking only of countries like France and the United States, where the mayor is directly elected. I believe that this would be difficult for the dualist system to cope with if we continue on the path advocated today by many sides. I don't think we want any of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u116	I call Mr Schouw.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u117	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Members in the second term for their interesting and interesting input and their questions. I agree with everyone who has said that we have had a good, solid and substantive discussion today on a subject with a huge history. Almost none of the speakers could speak on this subject without mentioning history. I think we should try to throw the ballast of the past away from each other. Let's see how we can deal with that in the future. I can tell that many of the Members are prepared to do so. I would like to thank Members for that. I think it would be practical for me to pass on the comments and questions raised by the various speakers. I shall begin with Mrs Van Bijsterveld's contribution. Mr Plasterk and I have made an exhaustive effort to include the CDA Group in our reasoning that we need to take a first step in getting the mayor's position, because that is what we are talking about from the Constitution. The government and the initiator are convinced that this method of appointment in the Constitution is not a cornerstone of our state system, nor does it guarantee the rights that citizens can derive from the Constitution. I'm just going to put it very squarely: this is our position. We have tried to include the CDA in this. That worked in the House of Representatives. I hope it works in this room, too. After all, there is a group meeting at the CDA. It'd be great if it worked. I don't have any more arguments. I won't come up with new things either, because that wouldn't do justice to the subject. This is the position; that's what we're in. Mrs Van Bijsterveld also said that a discussion about the office is not a reason for deconstitutionalisation. I could go for a walk with her by saying: that's right. The discussion alone does not have to be a reason to deconstitutionalise. However, I would point out that, in recent history, two-thirds of the majority in the House of Representatives were in favour of doing so. In view of history, you can see that, in addition to the discussion, there are also facts that have kept this subject on the agenda and that make us try to take this subject a step further every time. I have done so as initiator, but the government has also found it necessary. Another question from Mrs Van Bijsterveld was: why did the initiator not take Article 125? That article concerns the head of the board. I based myself on the proposal on the deconstitutionalisation that was formulated in 2000. That's basically the basics. If I had included Article 125 in the amendment to the Constitution, I would have anticipated a possible discussion on models. Mrs. Huijbregts was right to say so. The possible outcome is that you look at that, but you don't have to arrange it in front. Mrs Van Bijsterveld also asked me to extend this proposal to include models at second reading. I can do a lot, but at least I can't rule my own political grave. I don't know if I can be at that second reading. After all, elections are coming. I have no idea if I'm on the party list. I see that Mr De Graaf has serious doubts about this too. Mr De Vries confirms that. There you are as initiator! I'd almost say it's getting more and more certain I'm not there. I can therefore say very little about it. But all crazy on a stick! It seems to me to be the most practical thing in the future. The First Chamber will decide on this next Tuesday. I hope, of course, that it is a positive decision. But then the work for the initiator is done until after the elections. Today's debate has resulted in someone else having to go to work, not as a stagehand, but as a director. That person will also write a letter stating how the directional role will be fulfilled. In parallel to the moment that this bill is resting for the second reading, the cabinet is starting to discuss the models. What I can imagine in the most pragmatic sense is that these two discussions will come together at some point. In any case, they come together when there is a new Lower House and if this bill has to be discussed in the second round. Then many will ask: what has been the outcome of the discussion initiated by the cabinet? That's how things get back together. I'd prefer that role-sharing. Should this discussion lead to an amendment of the law, I am talking about the ordinary law and that sort of thing, then it is up to the cabinet to be the first to do so. Mrs Huijbregts spoke about the usefulness and necessity of bringing this bill into procedure. She hit the nail on the head when she said: it's a bit of a chicken-or-egg discussion whether you're going to start the discussion and take the first step or you're going to do it at the end. I understand very well that Mrs Huijbregts said that. I stressed in the first term that if we do not take this first step now, we will see that the debate on the future and the models cannot be conducted at full speed. That is exactly what the VVD Group wants. I am also tasting from Mrs Huijbregts' input that she says: let us take the first step now, because then we can also have the discussion about the models very well. Mrs. Huijbregts is doing a few non-verbal things that I can't quite interpret. It's a mystery. I hear something about next week. Mrs Huijbregts also said: take the rethink vigorously. I have heard the VVD Group correctly. She says: between the first and second readings, of course, something must be done, assuming that the second reading will take place in 2018. I think it is up to the Minister to outline its outline, as well as his own role in it. I thank Mr Engels for his compliments. With the discussion he sparked over the breadth and scope of the mission, he addressed the VVD group, but also the minister. I liked the interruption that this has been concluded with: there will be a letter, in which the Minister will write down the scope and the process. That letter goes to the First Chamber, but it was the suggestion of Mr Engels that the House of Representatives should also look at it. They'll be happy about that. Then we can take that step further. Then I come to Mr De Vries. I would also like to thank him for his contribution in the second term. He referred to history and, of course, has a point when he says that you should see all the marking moments also in this file called Thorbecke and 1948.... in their context. Of course, he has a relevant point to make. The point I wanted to make is that the common thread throughout history is quite simple to summarize with the question of whether or not the method of appointment should be included in the Constitution. Today we are witnessing one of these moments. Mr De Vries noted that the urgent need remained in the middle. Mr De Vries (S). - (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking Mr De Vries for his excellent report. Obviously, the input of the Minister and the initiator has taken the matter a step further, so that the urgent need for this change remains in the middle and is therefore questionable, I say in the most sunny way. Is the method of appointment a cornerstone of the Constitution or not? This question is somewhat along the lines of the previous point. That is something we can argue about, and that is what we are doing with the CDA Group. As initiator, I have taken a position in this: this is not part of the Constitution. What I would like to give to Mr De Vries and his group is the good news that it would not be out of the Constitution if the Chamber voted in favour of the proposal next week, because it would obviously require a second reading. At the end of the first term, I tried to say something that didn't seem right, and I'm attracted to it. I understand if groups still have hesitations, but I wanted to say that if you have hesitations, try to overcome them. Mr De Vries sounded a bit boisterous: one should not have hesitation in amending the Constitution. It was not my intention at all to make Mr De Vries angry, but it is of course the case that I am also trying to see here that a number of groups have reservations about this proposal. Then I say: try to overcome it, because there will always be a second reading, in which two thirds in the Lower House and two thirds in the Upper Chamber must vote in favour. That is something that is still being discussed very well. I had to respond to the point of the two captains on one ship. Asked how I feel about that. As a rule, the ship and its course aren't doing so well if there are two captains. There may be exceptions, but this seems to me to be the rule. Then I come to the Society and the conclusions of the Society. I understand very well, of course, that Mr De Vries says: the society has said that the current situation is workable. However, I find that conclusion questionable. Of course, I read the report very well. I've also read all the interviews with the president of the Society. In my opinion, the society says that the current situation can be improved. This is also entirely in line with the three problems I have raised. I didn't make it up myself. I got it out of the report from the Society. It seems to me to be a good thing to stress that the society does not say: it is good and it must remain that way. No, the society says that the current situation can be improved, but let's do it carefully and put the method of appointment in context. The initiator and the cabinet have said that a sensible route to find. Mr De Vries continues to look for a final picture, including me. There is and cannot be such a final picture, but the agreement is that we will take up the challenge with the Minister to see which model is possible. If it is not possible to find something good or sensible on it, then we still have the existing model. Mr De Lange said on behalf of the OSF and the Party for Animals: count your blessings. I will do that next Tuesday if Mr De Lange does not blame me. I also thank him for the compliments and I very much agree with him that it has been a good debate. On behalf of the SP Group, Mr Meijer has carefully expressed his support. Thank you for that. It is all still to be discussed in the group, but I am glad that the SP Group also says that we should take a step in whether or not we should leave it in the Constitution. The Group of the Party of European Socialists also says that it is good to have that discussion with each other. Quite rightly, there is a piket pole around a particular model and that is, of course, the right of every group. I believe that this good and meaningful input, as well as the suggestions to give the Minister the perspective of the international context, to be taken into account. Mr Thissen wonders whether it will succeed with that second reading. He bases himself on a piece of experience and history that we both experienced in 2006. He noted that there were differences of opinion on the final picture at the moment. It will be quite an exercise, I admit, to see if there can be a common image, but well, we have time for that. If that common image does not arise, it is likely that this will entail some risk for the second reading. That's what I hear him say, and I feel it, of course. We cannot put that under the table, but it is not firing us from making a choice in the vote at first reading. Then we can start the further process. Mr Holdijk...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u118	For my group, it is essential to get an answer to the next question. What if that constitutional change doesn't happen? Is that a sine qua non condition for a different method of appointment, yes or no? In my second term, I made very explicit mention of my confusion as a result of this debate. That confusion also has to do with this point. Why can't the Second and First Chambers agree on a method of appointment that we like here through ordinary legislation, without the need for a constitutional change? This constitutional change is not the setting up of the Chamber for the debate on the method of appointment, is it? It's a little more principled, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u119	A constitutional change is the method of appointment and also the driver for the discussion. That's why we're here. In history, this has happened a few times: stimulating the discussion. We have to do that, I think, because it puts the discussion on edge. A large number of modalities require constitutional changes, as far as I can see now. I say this under the terms of the Minister's sensible comments on the question of lawyers. Of course, you have the relatives and the easiest. When it turns out that there is no two-thirds majority in favour of constitutional change, you may have to consider whether it should be done in a different way. However, it is necessary to have a common idea about a final picture. If it had been easy, I say to Mr Thissen, we would not have been standing here for the umpteenth time. It's a difficult subject. The content of the opinion is quite different. However, I think it is important to take that first step on the constitutional change, because it is a catalyst, a driver for the further discussion that is also widely politically desirable. Mr Holdijk continues to doubt the justification for the need for this proposal; I say it to the most cheerful and friendly. I have the impression that Mr Holdijk, on behalf of his group and the Christian Union Group, continues to say that this appointment is a cornerstone of the Constitution. We don't think so. I have, of course, been working very hard to make a bridge between Mr Holdijk's view and my own view, but I am not able to do so very well, otherwise than to tell Mr Holdijk that with a positive choice for this initiative proposal next week, it has not yet been done with the removal of this method of appointment from the Constitution. A few years from now, this will be discussed further. So it's a first step, but not a final choice. That's the bridge I'm offering.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u120	I would like to respond to the issue of motivating the need. I thought I heard the initiator say in the first term that it was ultimately a matter of appreciation. Let me add: a matter of appreciation by some political parties. Am I wrong that that is actually the only foundation left behind in all discussions on the usefulness, necessity, desirability and justification of a constitutional change?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u121	It is a good thing that Mr Holdijk is asking this question. Perhaps to clarify the following. My first foundation is the question of whether or not the method of appointment is part of the Constitution. I am referring here to the statement that it is not part of the Constitution. So we need to get it out. Then there is a second way of reasoning. It refers to the question when you get something out of the Constitution, or, vice versa, when you add something to it. Then the understanding of the legal and social need comes around the corner. On that point, I would argue that it is not possible to cut it with scissors. It is not with a receipt to deliver when something is legally or socially necessary; that is also a matter of appreciation. But if you are really convinced that this subject does not belong in the Constitution, then there is also a legal need to take it out. As far as the social necessity is concerned, almost everyone in this Chamber says that it is a good thing that we study the mayor's position in that context and with that relationship. So there's a social question. Whether that's a necessity? I never know when a question will turn into a necessity, because it is, of course, a scale. Mr Holdijk also points to public order and security in relation to the mayor's role. He is very consistent in that, because he has already pointed this out in his first term. I think this point will certainly be part of the discussion. I have also taken good note of his warning, which is why I explicitly refer to it here, about mayor's monism as a solution to the discussion. After all, there are a lot of disadvantages. This was my second-term contribution. I have done my best to include the Chamber in the reasoning I have followed. I apologize if I haven't taken the space to talk about models and if that sometimes seemed too cramped. Mr Thissen, I apologise for that, but Members all understand on the one hand how difficult and complicated this discussion is and on the other hand that there is a great desire to take the debate a step further. You'd have to walk on eggs. If you have noticed, Mr President, I can confirm that I have. However, I hope and trust a good outcome next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u122	Mr. Chairman. My first point concerns the directional role. Actually, I've already started doing that, with the two notes I've been working on. At first instance they were received positively by the Dutch Society of Mayors and the Association of Dutch Municipalities. I'm gonna take a closer look. This autumn we plan to organise a conference together on this theme. To make a long story short: I am happy to send a letter containing an overview of the direction as I see it in my mind. I would add that it will be largely a procedural letter, which is not about the final picture, but about how we intend to shape this process. Mrs Huijbregts said that the timing I spoke of was somewhat slow in her eyes. I have tried to give state law purely the timing of the order of decisions as they are ultimately taken by the States-General. Something else is that thinking is of course free and that everyone can form opinions much earlier. I hope to contribute to that, too. But when I look strictly at the timing, assuming that this cabinet and this House of Representatives will remain in place until 2017, it seems realistic that the second reading will not be until 2018 by the two Chambers of the States General. If one would like to change the law, it has to be done by ordinary law, so you are indeed at 2019-2020 before the decision is taken legally. But once again, nothing forbids others to form views on this matter before. I would like to point out that we are actually already seeing a preview of this today; Mr Thissen pointed out, as did Mr Schouw, that of course you should always be careful about that catch 22 that my highly valued predecessor of the Interior De Graaf ran into in a way. Some parties say 'we do not want to decide on deconstitutionalisation until we know what the final picture will be', while others say 'if that becomes the final picture, I would rather stick to the current crown designation'. That way you can hold each other for a long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u123	I waited for my interruption because I thought the Minister would be more specific with his timing proposal. I assume that will be in his letter as well. He just said what he thinks will be the order. My question was precisely that of having that final picture before the second reading, or at least having a view of the final picture. This means that from now on he will have three years to really shape his direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u124	I make every effort, but not the result, because that is ultimately up to the States-General. This will have to be done by law, in the next composition of the First Chamber, with all due respect: that will soon be... and then also of the Second Chamber. I hope that will be in 2017. All I can do is commit to the effort, and I will. I'm just passing through a few questions I've asked. Maybe I'll come to a final word. First of all, Mrs Van Bijsterveld asked me if I was willing to have the whole discussion on the subject of municipal governance of the future. Yes, I am. I think the mayor's appointment is an integral part of that. I think we agree on that, too. That is precisely why we are discussing this issue with each other today. I will come back to that in the final word. I have answered Mrs Huijbregts' questions. I do not think that Mr De Vries has quite convinced me yet, that is my impression. We agree that the method of appointment of the mayor and the organisation of the municipal administration are interrelated. I see that as an argument to say: the Constitution is crystal clear. In this context, I would like to quote once again Article 132: The law governs the establishment of provinces and municipalities, as well as the composition and jurisdiction of their administrations. It is then logical that this one aspect, which is indeed related to the rest of the establishment, can be regulated by law. Hence my plea. Indeed, I see the Crown designation of the mayor as a relic from the time when the Empire, and indeed the Crown, wanted to ensure that in those further democratic congregations they did not do things that the Crown did not like. That's where that came from in the end. In the meantime, we have been able to undermine this by the current procedure, but that is as far as we can go. I will come back to that later. Mr De Vries quoted the Dutch Society of Mayors which says that the current situation is workable. I would like to endorse that. I would like to underline that. The current situation is workable and very good mayors are appointed. Only the citizen has no influence on that. If it is to be deinstitutionalized, the ordinary legislator will have to determine whether all this is a desirable situation and whether there are situations in which the citizen can influence it, while preserving the good. I mentioned a number of variants of this in my note. They will eventually return to the discussion in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u125	Does the Minister not see the possibility of doing something about this citizen's position without this de-constitutionalisation? I would remind you that referendums have even been organised. You can try all kinds of ways to involve citizens in something. Then what is the need for this de-constitutionalisation? In fact, I have to ask: is this deconstitutionalisation necessary?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u126	To be very precise, and that was actually what I wanted to say in the direction of Mr Meijer and Mr Thissen, I note the following. In the note I sent, I said that variant I.3 needed constitutional change, as well as all variants II and III. If the city council appoints it, let alone if the citizens elect it, the role of the Crown will in fact lapse. It will only be possible to apply it if the Constitution is amended. That is indeed the position. I say immediately, as simple beta: this is not an exact science, but this is the conclusion about what fits within the limits of the Constitution as we know it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u127	It's an interesting subject, though.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u128	Sure, sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u129	It may not be an exact science. That's supposed to be more fun, according to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u130	I didn't say that. I'm happy to be standing here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u131	Maybe I didn't put it right. I meant that in today's municipal law all kinds of things have proved possible to involve citizens in the selection of a mayor. I mentioned the consultative referenda which, in my opinion, were simply withdrawn too early, although perhaps they were not satisfactory. We could have thought about that further. There are also other possibilities in the law. You can, of course, involve citizens in all possible ways. Why do you need this deconstitutionalisation?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u132	I do not think I should answer with a second question, but I do ask the question: why do we attach to the Crown appointment when we are seeking to give citizens a greater role in this? If that's what we're after. What is the objection to removing that Crown designation from the Constitution from 1848, after which all options remain open? When people say 'we want the procedure with a trust committee where we do not know who is applying and where we do not know who applied', then that is one of the procedures that is possible. It's also in my review. However, it is also possible to choose one of the other variants. The legislator - that is what you are - then has the room to make a choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u133	Finally, Mr De Vries.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u134	Of course, the legislator has a lot of possibilities because he also makes the Municipal Law. I indicated that attempts have been made in the past to hold consultative referenda, for example. You can organize anything to achieve greater involvement of the citizen. You can turn the question around, but answer my question. Is there a need for this de-constitutionalisation?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u135	There are referenda organized earlier and how you appreciate them now is equally verse two. Under the current Constitution, this can and could seem to be done. However, that is a little different from all the variants that I have written down in my note, which relate either to appointment by the city council or direct election by the citizens. Both require a constitutional change. Mr Holdijk spoke about the responsibility for public order and security. I said in the first term that this is an important point. That will also have to be involved in the legislative amendment. By the way, it is not the case that the mayor does so in the capacity of a state body. The mayor is constitutionally only municipal body, even if he or she acts in the field of public policy and security. I wanted to add that. This brings me to my conclusion. I shall look again at Mrs Van Bijsterveld, who has not yet given her full opinion on this matter. I do not know whether I can draw Mr De Vries's line. My plea to you would be to stop the discussion now and to allow it to be looked at at at second reading. In the end, the ordinary legislator can decide what is the best way to appoint the mayor. If this proposal for a constitutional change is to come to an end again, it will be a very long process in which we can look again at the way in which the mayor is appointed. I hope that not only a majority but also a large majority will be able to give the confidence that this proposal will be accepted in a subsequent period, perhaps at second reading.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u136	I'm here to deal with the bill. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance has asked for a roll-call vote. It will take place next week.
