ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-19.u1	Seven speakers have spoken for the discussion of this bill. The first speaker is ready. That's Mrs Siderius from the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-19.u2	Mr. Chairman. We need craftsmanship in the Netherlands. Without us, we are nowhere, at least I am not. I had a leaky ceiling recently and I was glad someone could come and fix it. But also stuck bicycle chains, faults with cars: it all needs to be repaired. Our craftsmen solve it and are therefore the backbone of our society. This applies not only to the technical professions, but also to the carers and sellers in our shopping streets. The VMBO is training these people. Unfortunately, the vmbo has become a colourful collection of courses with all kinds of learning paths and a heavy focus on cognitive performance. Practical skills are undervalued in the eyes of the SP. VMBO has become a maze of learning paths, levels and sectors. The SP wants to tackle this proliferation by splitting the vmbo into small-scale vocational schools, where craftsmanship is again central. In addition, we introduce the MAVO for students who wish to transfer to the HAVO or to a specialized MBO training at levels 3 or 4. Vocational training in vocational training in vocational schools must be put at the heart of vocational training. In these training courses, it must be about craftsmanship. All kinds of cognitive requirements should not stand in the way of students who excel in practice. This course should therefore consist largely of vocational courses. In addition, as far as we are concerned, the Mavo is being restored. This is the learning path that gives children from lower-educated families a chance to climb higher up. In addition, it can prepare students for in-depth and specialised training at MBO level. The MAVO should be made up of general courses with opportunities to opt for professionally oriented deepening. 80% of today's mavo or tl students end up going to MBO. By also giving them the opportunity to take vocational courses, they can orient themselves on their careers during the course of training. We believe that today's VMBO has failed. It consists of a collection of all kinds of training courses that have little in common. There is little exchange between the higher and lower learning paths. There is no point in keeping them artificially together, as far as we are concerned. It's time to acknowledge that. I wonder what the Secretary of State thinks about this. The government's bill cuts well in the profiles in the professionally oriented learning paths. The SP can support that. You currently need higher mathematics in order to be able to build up all learning paths and levels. The SP also supports the reversal of the examination of the profile at the end of the third year and of the vocational electives in the fourth year. This is also a deep desire of teachers from VMBO. Today, the SP would like to draw specific attention to the career orientation within VMBO. We welcome the arrival of the career file. It is striking, however, that it only applies to vocational learning pathways. Do students in the theoretical learning path not have to orientate themselves on their careers? The course of study and occupation that is now taking place in this theoretical learning path is rather at varying levels in schools. The SP would like the career file to become a mandatory part of the programme for the theoretical learning pathway as well. We therefore wish to table a motion on this, unless the Secretary of State is going to support all our good proposals this evening. It is also striking that, if a student has chosen a profile that does not fit, it is not possible to switch to a different profile at every VMBO school. In the context of career orientation and the fact that for some students the choice of a profile at the age of 14 comes very early, it should be possible for each student to change between the ages, both inside and outside the school. Will the Secretary of State make this possible? Between 13% and 18% of students with a VMBO degree pass to the HAVO. That's striking. The accumulation of diplomas is seen as an important part of allowing students to flow to higher levels. It is also often celebrated in this Parliament. A month ago, Minister Bussemaker argued in Trouw that education should return to its task of uplifting. Meanwhile, the same minister makes it impossible to stack or flow. Last week, we talked about the detestable cascade cost. This means that students in MBO have to roll through the study in four years, otherwise the institution will no longer receive funding. If we talk about that subject again in the near future, we will table a motion to delete that cascade payment. But also the flow to the havo from the vmbo has obstacles. A certified VMBO must have at least an average of 6.8 in order to be allowed to pass to the HAVO. In addition, some of the HAVO schools are subject to a double ban on ex-VMBOs. If you're a vmbo with a degree in law school, you're just gonna get kicked out of school. What do you mean, upliftment? This really hits a pig like a pliers. The SP would like a vmbo-t diploma to simply give access to the HAVO. Unfortunately, the admission code of the VO-Council has become more of a refusal code for these students. That's gotta stop. Is the government prepared to make it legally impossible for schools to impose a double ban? The SP can wholeheartedly support the deletion of the profiles. As far as we are concerned, however, more maintenance work is needed in VMBO. We would like to start with that today.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-19.u3	Mr. Chairman. This legislative proposal, which regulates the introduction of the profiles and the four learning paths in VMBO, will improve the organisation of the educational offer of VMBO. It will therefore be better linked to further education and, very importantly, to the regional labour market. This bill allows the profiles to replace the current sectors and departments. It is indeed a bit of a mess of sectors and departments. People don't quite understand that either. I would like to say that very nice things have happened in the vmbo, for a long time. However, as far as we are concerned, this modernisation is urgently needed. It's been the same for 20 years. It needs to be streamlined. With the advent of these profiles, which will replace the learning paths, VMBO is aligned with the rest of secondary education. There will be a profile part, a common part and a free part. This only brings benefits. Education is better structured. We only have one question for the Secretary of State. Under the bill, schools can choose to introduce the profile structure from the school year 2016-2017 or one year later, in the school year 2017-2018. The Council of State points out that new legislation should only be introduced when practice is really ready. It is not a very big system change, but a lot is going to happen. Is practice ready in 2016? What's going on with the developments? Does the Secretary of State have any idea how many schools are ready to introduce the new profile structure as early as 1 August? We would like a response to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-19.u4	Mr. Chairman. Recently, we have often been asked whether our current school system is still training the children for the jobs of the future. The CDA can well imagine that after 20 years we will look again at the content of the vocational programmes in VMBO. This legislative proposal updates this content, which will make VMBO more consistent with further training and better meet the demand of the regional labour market. The CDA also welcomes the reduction of the current 35 profiles to 10 profiles per learning path. This will make the education supply more transparent and make it easier for schools to keep their offerings at a controlled level. It is better that the new broad profiling subjects better match the training periods of VMBO. This, too, was a persistent problem, while the continuous learning lines, which are of particular benefit to these pupils, were not yet in order. We have asked questions in our written input as a result of the timetable of the introduction. The cabinet replies that pilot schools in particular are already far away and that they can introduce all this into the school year ahead. There will be an impetus of 5.5 million euros to support the transition. Despite this momentum, the CDA is concerned about this rapid introduction. Can the Secretary of State indicate whether teachers and teacher training are sufficiently prepared for this? In response to our questions about the early selection, the cabinet answers that more has already been devoted to career orientation and guidance (LOB) and that there is the possibility to switch to another profile in the third year, should the chosen profile not match. How are deans well prepared for this? Is the available €15 per pupil per year in the VMBO for LOB sufficient to carry out these important tasks? Is the Secretary of State prepared to monitor this? After all, Dutch pupils have to opt for an education type and a profile very early on. A wrongly chosen profile can hinder the flow to the MBO.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-19.u5	I think the SP and the CDA could find each other very well at this point, the early selection. The SP also sees that sometimes the moment of choice for students comes a little too early. Doesn't the CDA think that every student should be able to change his profile in the meantime? When it happens, it happens mostly in the third year. However, it cannot be done at every VMBO school. As far as the CDA is concerned, shouldn't that be possible at every school?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-19.u6	I think this is a very fair question. I have listened carefully to Mrs Siderius' speech. There's a moment of choice in the bill. I have just indicated that I would very much like to support that. I would also like to listen very strongly to the answer of the cabinet to the question she has asked. I can imagine that we would also like to allow a different choice for all schools, but I am not quite 100% of that. I would like to listen carefully to the answers, but Mrs Siderius has stimulated me. Can I sum it up like that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-19.u7	It's okay. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-19.u8	The CDA believes that many good things are proposed in the bill. On the other hand, the vmbo continues to have an image problem. Perhaps I should also say something here about Mrs Siderius's contribution, which clearly highlights the difference between vocational training and the MAVO. I would add that the size of the institutions also has a significant impact on the image of VMBO. The human size must be important, especially in the vmbo, but also in the future, the mbo. The CDA believes that it is precisely a re-evaluation of the craftsmanship and the possibilities for master and companion construction that can help. We appreciate the steps that have been taken and have advocated them before. I still have a few short points. We have taken so much time for the motion on the vve that we have had to cut back on the time we would have liked to spend preparing this important bill. The broad sections and flexible vocational electives can easily be maintained in their range by small VMBOs. The CDA is concerned about the scale increase in education. I'll ask the Secretary of State if he can reflect on that again. Social studies are always an important subject. I regret that the Secretary of State does not choose to make social education 2 a mandatory profile in the profiles Care and well-being and Media, design and ICT. The CDA deeply regrets this. However, we are pleased that the Secretary of State has taken over the suggestion, from among others the CDA, that social studies 1 and 2 should be baptized in social and social sciences. I thank him kindly for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-19.u9	Then I would like to thank you very much for this. I call Mrs Jadnansing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-19.u10	Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing the introduction of new profiles in vocational VMBO with the aim of making vocational education more recognizable, but certainly more attractive. The vocational electives offer opportunities not only for regional colouring of VMBO, but also for joining the local business community. In addition, this bill also aims to offer opportunities for more student-oriented talent development. A lot of attention is being paid to career orientation, and that is more than right. I do not think that there has been a debate on vocational education lately and the importance of career orientation has not been underlined. Several motions on LOB, career orientation and guidance, have reached a majority in this Chamber and that is good news. When I look at the website where the evaluation of LOB is described, I see an image that this is more of a paper matter, mainly designed by deans and much less by teachers. My impression is that I hope that the Secretary of State will be able to remove it, that much of what is happening in the area of LOB is mainly due to outsiders, such as the "vmbo On Stage" initiative. Essential LOB policy is about questions like: who am I? What can I do? How am I in life? How do I look at myself? What are my chances and threats? It is about supporting these thinking doers on their way to jobs and citizenship. This bill can play a role in this. The VMBO is modernised, but only takes shape if the people who are allowed to do it are inspired to look at the young people in the VMBO in a different way. There are just too many examples in which young people from VMBO are viewed just as differently than young people from VWO. That's too bad. On every work visit I ask young people from VMBO what I can do for them, the first answer is: ma'am, don't let people look down on us like that. That's why I use the term "thinking doers." I continue to use them consistently to give young people from vocational education that they can make that combination of thinking and doing. A beautiful table is not only made by skill; you first make a plan for it. That's what Hans told me during my work visit to Esdal College. Those are good, beautiful words. Thinking doers: put them in the window. Pre-vocational education must be meaningful, in which a balance has been struck between practical and cognitive skills and in which the vocational context is central. How do we get away from the dutiful and all of us crying out that vmbo is so very important? That's always yelling. How do we ensure that the crying is translated into actual faith and action? How is it achieved that it really is? For example, there is the Platform 2032, which was recently visited in the Chamber. During that visit I indicated that their first concept offers many interesting clues, but that the vmbo comes off very thin. The vmbo screams for its own thoughtful approach. Talent development is really something else on the vmbo than on the havo. It's about skills and professional skills. It is a question of language and numeracy, of subjects which must be considered for these young people in the field of vocational education and not simply derived from the other secondary education. There must be considerable facilitation in training and the setting up of programmes. The VMBO has received a very large assignment from us. This will require a cultural change. They're going to be teaching practice between 10 and 18 hours, and that's quite a lot. Guidance of management in the implementation of this is very important. I'd like to get a response from the Secretary of State. Studies success must be at the forefront, alongside expertise in a real context and a personal approach. It's about being seen. It is also about help from the business community. The FD recently published a huge article about NL2025, a group of CEOs and other well-known Dutch people who will think about education and society and support initiatives. It is incredibly beautiful that there is also thought in that corner about how things can be even more beautiful in education and in society. But I also want to challenge them. No expensive projects, no thick notes, but just 80 CEOs bringing 80 VMBs and explaining how business works, how networking works, how you make a good impression on an employer and what knowledge and skills are needed. They just need to get to work concretely. Meet each other, learn from each other. And if we're still learning, why don't we offer a vmbo class and a vwo class a lot more in common? Get young people from VMBO together with young people from VWO social studies. Organize the meeting, organize the conversation and thus prevent the separate worlds. More than ever, it is necessary to learn skills for craftsmanship as well as life skills. That is why I ask to what extent social studies are well embedded alongside LOB, also in the profiles. Mr Rog of the CDA already mentioned the letter we received from the Dutch Association of Teachers Society. This underlines the importance of social science, especially within the profile Care and well-being, as necessary for the future professional practice of the students who choose this profile. I would very much like to hear the Secretary of State's reaction to that. The association also pleads that the profile Media and ICT should not only be technically completed, but that students should also be given media wisdom. I would also very much like a response from the Secretary of State. I have two final questions. Are the teacher training courses already sufficiently prepared for the profiles of VMBO? Are the courses compatible with these new profiles? Is it possible, for example, that some students will soon be graduating from school to be able to work within the new profiles? What kind of attention is there for this group? We talk about the fact that vmbo is modernised by law, but the vmbo takes shape only if not only the teachers, but also the management underlines the importance of vmbo. Look, modernisation is a nice start, but what really needs to change is the way of dealing with the students. As far as I'm concerned, the VMBO is the heart of our education. There are the students who are going to make sure that the society of the future continues to operate. If we do not take them seriously, we do not take our own future seriously. I don't think that's the idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-19.u11	I would like to talk about the vmbo as an emancipation machine; let me put it this way. In the past, the MAVO was mainly intended for pupils who grew up in low-level families. The Mavo made it possible for them to get a little higher up. The vmbo should have taken over that task, but it didn't quite work. When we look at the figures, it turns out that only 13% of the students are passing through to the HAVO. There are quite a few blockades to overcome in order to flow into the Havo. For example, you have to have an average final figure and there is also a double ban. How does the Labour Party feel about that? Especially after the Minister's speech a month ago in Trouw, I can hardly imagine that the Labour Party wants to allow such blockades to exist.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-19.u12	Thank you for this question. I think I recall that my predecessor on the Vocational Training dossier, Mr Metin Çelik, has tabled motions on this subject which have also been adopted. He asked the government to make sure that the flow would go well. Mrs Siderius' speech is very close to all the motions he has tabled. We still stand for that. I stand for that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-19.u13	It is good that Mrs Jadnansing's predecessor has tabled motions, but they are apparently not being carried out. The average final figure 6.8 still exists as a condition. A Mavo diploma doesn't give entitlement to influx into the Havo. The double ban still exists at certain havo schools. Does the Labour Party remove those obstacles along with the SP? After all, the PvdA's electoral programme states that it intends to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-19.u14	I'm gonna take a look at our super employee who's gonna be looking for the motions real quick. If I have the motions, we can read them together and see what's in them. Then we can see how we can solve this together.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-19.u15	Mr. Chairman. The vmbo is beautiful education. Let me also say that, because I agree with all the previous speakers. I also speak from my own experience: delicious, those little children, beautiful, but there are also a lot of worries. It is a good thing that we are looking at the VMBO profiles today. Renewal is urgently needed, because it can be a lot simpler, more forward-looking and more attractive. D66 believes that the VMBO should be able to renew continuously in order to maintain a link with the labour market and society. That's happening a lot. Schools seek cooperation with the MBO, with companies and with the neighborhood. Teachers develop their profession and make new developments accessible to their students. Sometimes we have to look at whether the laws and regulations are still of this time. What should the students know and be able to do? How do we organize that? How do we ensure that education can move along with developments in society, the labour market and technology? That is why tonight we are debating the introduction of profiles and the updating of exam programmes on VMBO. Did VMBO students really help with this review? Are schools and teachers ready for this innovation? These questions are central to D66. First of all, I would like to address the most important issue, namely the support for this change. We can decide on this legislative amendment this Wednesday evening, but the teachers will soon have to give them their hands and feet. I think that a wise lesson from many educational innovations is that we should not impose a renewal under great time pressure and top-down. My question is therefore whether teachers have been sufficiently taken away. Do they have sufficient time to give form and content to this innovation in education? I would like to hear reassuring answers from the Secretary of State to these questions. The bill replaces the huge amount of existing departmental subjects and programmes with ten broader, professionally oriented profiling subjects per learning path. That certainly sounds more transparent. However, I still have a few more questions. Apart from these ten clear profiles, there will be 40 modules and 150 electives. D66 welcomes the fact that electives are becoming more flexible and that more attention can be given to regional differences and so on. A new elective can be set up within a year. That's good. However, if there are 10,000 electives in the future, we can clearly delete that. For the whole range, the size and level of detail vary considerably, both between the profiles and between the sections and the electives. Does this make it manageable for schools, teachers and students? D66 welcomes the choice of a spread date. This gives schools eager to get to work immediately, while other schools can then prepare themselves a little longer. Is the Secretary of State going to take such an approach more often? The revision of VMBO profiles is, of course, part of a much broader discussion on the design of VMBO, on the design of our education system as a whole, on the consequences of shrinking in education, on the possibility of flow, customization and stacking and on our education of the future in 2032. As far as D66 is concerned, we will be taking a long time to engage in these discussions. However, with the questions, comments and concerns mentioned, this legislative proposal seems to be a good step.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-19.u16	Mr. Chairman. The vmbo no longer meets the requirements of this time. It is not in line with further education and certainly not with industry's demand. Companies complain that trainees do not have enough knowledge and skills and students do not know enough about the profession for which they are trained. An innovation process was launched in 2010. The legislative proposal before us is the final part of this process. However, the bill is not just a formal amendment. It is much deeper in terms of the VVD. The VMBO is currently in a bad position with many people. We regret that. The importance of craftsmanship for the Dutch economy has often been highlighted here in the Chamber. It is precisely the more practical talents that should be much more appreciated in education and in society. I agree with Mrs Siderius: a good plumber is indispensable, especially if you have leaks. Parents often think that their child's future with vocational training is less rosy than that of general education. However, when we see the demand from employers, it turns out that it is the opposite. The European Employment Services look at job vacancies in all EU countries every quarter to determine which professions are most needed. For the Netherlands, artisans are first in line. Place two is occupied by administrative staff and on three comes technicians and professional specialists. The future of a student with vocational training is therefore bright. However, it is necessary for parents and pupils to be more clear about what VMBO is actually training for. It is also necessary to improve connection and familiarity with regional business. This bill changes the structure of the VMBO. We go from 35 different departmental courses and programs by learning path to ten profiles. These profiles consist of new fixed sections and electives. The latter can be developed in conjunction with further education and regional business. This is an important development for the VVD, which we wholeheartedly support. There will be more flexibility and this will help to respond to changes in the regional labour market, but also to developments in further education. More and more VMBOs work together with the MBO and adapt their training programmes to each other. As far as the VVD is concerned, this is a good development, covering both the continuous learning lines and a response to shrinkage. For example, craftsmanship routes are increasingly being set up in sectors other than technology, thus jointly shaping educational programmes. This bill will only further stimulate these developments. However, I still have a few questions. The bill is full of terms such as "organised business" and "sector renewal committees." That worries me. For example, organised business is involved in modernising the content of education through digital field consultation. As far as the VVD is concerned, this is a far too bureaucratic approach. Also, organised businesses are not always equally representative. It is crucial for us that representatives of the regional business community are involved in VMBO schools, and that this becomes apparent in the profiling of a school, in the curriculum, in the organisation and in the courses offered. It is crucial that professionals from companies at school are involved in the content of education, that teacher placements are organised at these companies, and that the choice of materials and machines is made in consultation with those companies. On my work visits I encountered the example of vmbo-school Het Kwadrant in Weert. Since 1999, this school has had an agreement with a number of companies in the region to cooperate on many topics that strengthen the relationship between vocational education and the regional economy. This includes, for example, apprenticeship and staff placements, but also the establishment of innovative educational spaces and knowledge exchange. It was therefore self-evident to involve the covenant parties in choices about the new profiles and electives. As far as the VVD is concerned, all schools are going to do this. Does the Secretary of State agree with this? What steps does he intend to take to achieve this? In addition, the VVD wants specific attention to be paid to the way in which a school cooperates with the regional business community in the assessment of VMBOs by the inspection. For example, you should be able to see this in a separate paragraph in the inspection report. The Secretary of State states that electives can be developed in conjunction with further education and regional business. As far as we are concerned, these are going to be tough criteria. Courses of choice should be developed in conjunction with further education and the regional business community. Precise involvement of the regional business community and coordination with the MBO in developing an elective show that a school is in real contact with its environment. The VVD therefore intends to include this point as a criterion in the set of quality criteria currently drawn up by the State Secretary. In addition, we believe it is important that these criteria are as consistent as possible with the criteria already used in the assessment of electives in the MBO. We are now getting signals that these criteria for VMBO are even stricter than for MBO. We would like to receive a response from the Secretary of State. Another way of involving regional business more closely is to give it a role as an assessor in the CSP. The Secretary of State writes that he wants to investigate whether MBO teachers can fulfil the role of second examiner. That's a good idea, too. As far as the VVD is concerned, he immediately takes into account the extent to which someone from the business community could be second or perhaps third examiner. The VVD is pleased to see that career orientation and guidance in the bill is not presented as a separate subject, but as a structural part of the education process. The career file, in the words of the human capital agenda, we would call it a "portfolio" and the instrument to give LOB a central place in a student's education career. We wholeheartedly support this development, but we would like it to work out in practice. Recent research on LOB in VMBO showed that only 18% of respondents collaborated in a structural way with people from the business community in the framework of LOB. 89% of respondents indicated that the quality of career interviews could be improved. All this shows that there is still a world to be won with LOB, while it is one of the most important elements of a school career. It's about learning who you are, what you care about in life, where your talents lie, and how you'd like to further develop them towards the future. This broad interpretation of the contents of the portfolio is still not sufficiently reflected in the reply to our questions in the note following the report. I would like to receive a response from the Secretary of State on this point. In dealing with the Education budget, I tabled a motion on LOB with Mrs Jadnansing, which was adopted by the Chamber. How will the Secretary of State carry out this motion? And how can the Chamber keep its finger on the wrist so that LOB actually gets the structural and broad character that we want? As far as the VVD is concerned, we are really going to see how we can give LOB a much more prominent place in education in the coming years. In its opinion, the Education Council Recognizable vmbo with strong craftsmanship indicates that much more needs to be done than just strengthening the profiles we are talking about tonight. As far as the VVD is concerned, one of the most important recommendations of the Education Council is that the link between VMBO-t and HAVO should be improved. We look forward to the reaction of the Secretary of State to this opinion of the Education Council. As far as the VVD is concerned, this also includes the fact that in the vmbo-t, but actually also in the HAVO, vocational electives should be included in a programme. For the VMBO, we could start with that tonight. This ultimately strengthens the connection with the HBO. The Secretary of State now states that VMBO schools may offer this to their VMBO-t students, but that it does not have to be a structural part of their programme. The VVD regrets this and has an amendment in preparation. Some of the vocational courses are of added value, including for these pupils. Not only do pupils often benefit from a slightly more practical way of learning, it also helps them in their career orientation. In this context, we consider it a missed opportunity not to make the career file compulsory for the VMBO-t. I'd like to hear a response from the Secretary of State. Another point concerns the fact that the quality of our education, and hence of VMBO, stands or falls with the quality of the teachers. However, competence is a problem in VMBO, simply because there are no training courses to become teachers for many subjects taught in VMBO and also because they are often professionals from practice who are active in education with great enthusiasm. The Secretary of State has sent a letter about this and soon he will also come forward with his plan of action Against unauthorized teaching. The VVD considers it important that teachers are competent for the classroom, but also has an eye for the specific situation of VMBO. A 114 declaration has been used more often in the past. Criteria were laid down. A teacher who was considered competent could be tested through an aptitude test and declared competent in the event of proven suitability. To what extent has the Secretary of State also considered this route, or a modern variant of it? In conclusion, I have two small points to make. As mentioned above, the current VMBO examination programmes are twenty years old. With this law there will be more flexibility to respond to changes and as far as the VVD is concerned this is very important. The world is changing, the time in which students grow up is changing, and education will also have to change in response. But I am already hearing reactions from education that, for example, ICT content is almost obsolete. How are we going to ensure that we do not have to recreate such a whole exercise of renewal committees and working groups every 20 years? By the way, I am very grateful to the people who have worked on it. The VVD wants to ensure that keeping vmbo programs is something that applies not only to the electives, but also to the profile boxes. Is it possible, for example, for substantive committees to periodically review certain aspects of the sections of the profile? I come to my final point. In the VMBO the students usually go on an internship in the third year. Many students are only 15 years old. The Arbowet provides that students from 16 years of age, subject to expert supervision, may also carry out more risky work. In practice, this may lead to some students not being able to learn what they should actually learn at the internship. I'd like to ask the Secretary of State to discuss this issue with the sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-19.u17	It is very good that Mrs Straus refers to the Article 114 procedure. It can solve multiple problems. She herself talked about people from professional practice who can show that they have all the skills. Does she agree with D66 that the experienced primary school teachers, the paboteachers, who work with great success in the foundation of the VMBO, should also look at this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-19.u18	As far as I am concerned, it is important that, if people are able to work in the framework of VMBO, we see how they can become competent without necessarily having to follow the route of long-term teacher training. If we are going to look at the plan of action against unauthorized teaching, I hope that the category mentioned by Mr Van Meenen will also be included. As far as I am concerned, this could also be a category which, if the Secretary of State indeed indicated that he would find an interesting route to the 114 declaration, we could actually include in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-19.u19	This has put an end to the first term of office. The Secretary of State has indicated that he would like to prepare himself for a moment for his reply. I shall suspend the sitting until 10:10 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-19.u20	Mr. Chairman. It is good to talk today about the new professional profiles in the professionally oriented VMBO. It is also good to taste the playing field overlooking the fact that there is broad support for this bill. The curriculum for VMBO is in urgent need of renewal. The current courses are on average about 20 years old. The substantive renewal is necessary for improved integration with further education on the one hand and vocational practice in regional business on the other. There is now a great deal of fragmentation, which does not benefit flexibility. The new profiles play a good role in this. The educational routes are suitable for different pupils, but through the space we create in these profiles it is also possible to find a much greater link with the roc's and with the regional business community. Of course, organised business has also been very involved in the whole process, not only through digital consultation, but also in various working groups. We've kept in good contact. The beauty is that this creates profiles that can soon be formed in the country to local practice. I always mention the example of metalworking. That is really different in Schoonhoven than in IJmuiden. It is therefore a good thing that a school can colour itself like a chameleon to the other training courses in the region and the demand on the labour market. At the same time, I realise that this is only a first step in the process of renewal. We are now talking about professionally oriented VMBO. There are many more questions that play around the vmbo. In the medium term, of course, there are other issues that come along. Take the discussion about the educational curriculum under the chairmanship of Schnabel. There will be opinions that are also relevant to VMBO. Around the summer, the report of the Education Council was published. There too, quite far-reaching ideas are being launched. I want to take a good look at that, because it has a lot of consequences for the system. I'd like to get back to you at a later date. Mr. Chairman. I've pulled some broader themes from the bill. The first is the positioning of the vmbo. For example, Mrs Siderius asked about the Mavo. Shouldn't he be coming back? Mrs Straus raised the question of whether the choice of professional profiles should no longer be made. I would like to answer all these questions under this heading. The second theme is the pace of implementation. Is education ready? The block after that is about career orientation. I see them coming back a lot. It is very nicely secured in this bill and the question is what is happening in other areas. I will then deal with a number of questions about cooperation with industry. Mrs Straus came back to it a number of times. Finally, I deal with some loose questions in a varia block. I think my problem sketch from the introduction is very much in line with the problem sets of the Education Council and its advice Recognizable vmbo with strong craftsmanship. However, if you take a good look at that advice, you can also see that the recommendations of the Education Council have quite a lot of consequences for the system: bringing bb and kb together and packing gl and tl into a kind of old mavo. That is just what I call it in response to Mrs Siderius. What exactly do we mean when we talk about the return of the Mavo? Lots of vmbo-tl's calling themselves mavo. You can nail another name on the façade, of course, but have we achieved what we want? Do we want to go back to the old Mavo before 2002? One of the reasons we stopped doing this is that it led to a lot of uncertainty about the different c- and d-boxes and the different levels. I don't think we should want that either. Or do we want to go to some kind of mavo-like construction, as proposed by the Education Council? But that has major consequences for the system. I think it's good to think about that. I find the thoughts and ideas put forward by the Education Council in its report interesting. I am also talking about this with various stakeholders, because it has great consequences. Actually, so does the Education Council itself. You can't just say something about the vmbo without pulling it wider towards the havo. Perhaps it would be good to discuss this in greater detail at a later date, based on my response to the report of the Education Council.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-19.u21	I understand why the Secretary of State says that we should discuss this at a later date, because it would be a good thing if we decided this evening! I am curious to hear from the Secretary of State whether he also believes that something needs to change. The result can't be that we have it... We're now working on the profiles and that's a first step, but then we have to go through to really make sure that the recognizability of the vmbo comes back and that the craftsmanship really comes out clearly again. The image of the vmbo is now so that people say: if you've been on the vmbo, you can't do anything. That is not true, of course, and that is why we must certainly strengthen the image of VMBO. Of course, that's why the Education Council says you could split it up. The SP seems like a very good idea. Does the Secretary of State think that we should now look further and think about a possible system change?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-19.u22	Education is never ready and it is always good to see if you can make the system better. However, we have also learned from the past that system changes do not always lead to better education. Any change in the system also appears to bring with it new disadvantages. Let me give you an example. If you take bb and kb together in the craftsmanship route proposed by the Education Council, it will have major consequences for the kb'ers, because they can now easily flow to mbo-3 and -4. Before you do something like that, you must have thought it through. As far as I am concerned, discussions about systems are not taboo, but before you introduce such a radical change, you must have thought very carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-19.u23	Of course, we agree on the latter. We also note that any change in the system has disadvantages when it comes to appropriate education; of course that is the case. You have to weigh the advantages and disadvantages in advance and see what consideration you want to make. Between the lines, I'm told that the Secretary of State says that we need to look further to see if we can do better within the VMBO. That's good. When does the Secretary of State intend to return to the Chamber with that? I think it is good that we are not going to have this discussion again for another year, but that we are now really starting the discussion, linking it to a kind of timeline and finally making real decisions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-19.u24	I suspect the reaction will come to the Chamber shortly after the turn of the year. Mr. Chairman. Mr Rog asked, also in the context of further development, whether it should not be simpler and more organizeable, also in the context of what he called the scale increase. I think that for the future we should look very closely at the organizational aspects of VMBO. Moreover, I do not think that we should do that so much because of the increase in scale. I think that the big challenge for VMBO is a very different one, namely scaling down. The VMBO is now largely organized in relatively small schools and establishments. In large parts of our country, they will face a sharp contraction in the coming years. Up to 2029 the superstructure of the vmbo shrinks on average by about 20%. That is very important if you want to keep up small courses, especially as we already see that 90% of vocationally oriented courses in VMBO schools currently count less than 18 pupils. Then see if you can keep that in the air. When we talk about organisability, we agree. We must also look at how we do this in the future. However, I fly it from the shrinkage discussion and a little less from the scale discussion. Then several questions were asked about the transition from vmbo to havo, the issues surrounding early selection. Two letters will be sent to the Chamber shortly. One is about the ibo Effective learning routes. This concerns the fact of staying seated and the question of how to ensure that your students have the opportunity to make the most of their talents. I think that things such as the thresholdless flow from vmbo to havo and issues such as the double ban will come back. The other is about the following, something we have talked about a number of times. The VO-Council is currently seriously evaluating the current flow requirement. There are many questions in the Chamber about this: is this right? I think everyone's willing to make a switch, and we're all excited, I think, about the possibilities of stacking. We want to keep them, too. At the same time, we want to prevent early school leaving. The transitional arrangements from VMBO to HAVO are designed in particular to ensure this. I would have a great preference for waiting for the evaluation. He'll be here in the spring. Then we can pick it up and have a sensible discussion on that basis.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-19.u25	I can't help it, but I'd like to answer my questions. I got the answer, but this is a very easy way to get rid of an answer, let me put it this way. We are going to evaluate it and we will come back to it, was said. I think, then, says the Secretary of State, that the double ban might be in there. I would like to hear a statement from the Secretary of State: what does he think of the double ban on HAVO for former VMBOs? Does the Secretary of State consider that appropriate, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-19.u26	I guess I don't think that's desirable. We are talking about what actually happens in practice in schools that work with the admission code. That's what matters, not some kind of theoretical thing. In practice, schools working with the admission code have agreed to apply the same rules for both former VMBOs and pupils from Havo 3 to double pupils in Havo 4. That seems to me to be a very just and honest way of doing things. It's in the admission code, and we're going to evaluate it. The question then is what exactly is the problem we are solving at the moment, if that can perhaps also be a guide to the way schools deal with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-19.u27	This is kind of weird, isn't it? The Secretary of State says: I suspect I do not think that is desirable. I thought that Secretary of State would generally have an opinion on the subject of which they are directors. So I find this special, I say quietly. In addition, the Education Council recently found, in May, that there are habo schools which have specifically imposed a double ban on VMBO graduates. So these schools don't follow the code. It does not have to be, because the education inspection only checks whether a school complies with the legal rules and whether a school complies with these kinds of guidelines of the VO-Council. Is the Secretary of State going to ensure that it becomes legally impossible for havo schools to impose such a double ban, now that the Secretary of State "suspects" that he does not consider that prohibition desirable?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-19.u28	I'd like to look into that a little bit more first. One of the ways to do that is by properly evaluating the standing practice in schools and what are the advantages and disadvantages of it. We have all agreed to do so and that evaluation will be published in the spring. Let us wait and see, because then we know how many schools are using such a ban, what its consequences are and whether it really is such a threshold for students who want to make the transition from VMBO to HAVO or whether it is perhaps very good to be able to see which students can actually cope with such a transition, in order to avoid school drop-out. As far as I am concerned, I would like to take Mrs Siderius's point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-19.u29	What surprises me greatly is that it seems as if the Secretary of State is not aware of Mr Grashoff's motion and others saying that pupils with VMBO and VMBO diplomas should be given the right to move on to Havo (No. 53.3132). At least that would make the evaluation unnecessary. My question is therefore whether the Secretary of State intends to dismiss this motion. I believe that Mr Grashoff has also asked for a response. Is that what this is about? "You can say whatever you want, but we will first assess carefully whether we agree with you"?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-19.u30	I would advise Mr Van Meenen to await the reaction to the motion. It'll follow around Christmas. I'd like to take a good look at the consequences. We have also made agreements with all of us and I am very much in favour of good governance. If we make agreements with educational partners, we have to keep them. In spring, we'll pick it all up and then we'll see how we move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-19.u31	This is going a long way for me anyway. This suggests that the Chamber is not a proper administration and what it does. It is not at all the first time that this issue has been discussed in the Chamber. It has been discussed for years and there was a lot of discussion about it when that access code was introduced. The Chamber has just given its opinion on this. My question to the Secretary of State is therefore whether he considers it impossible for him to ignore this ruling of the Chamber. Yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-19.u32	I don't think anything's out of the question. I'm gonna take a good look at it. I promised the Chamber I'd come by Christmas with a reaction, and I'm just gonna do that. Mrs Straus has asked questions about keeping subjects up-to-date. It seems good not to wait another 20 years for a review. This is also one of the reasons why the educational pathway2032 was started, namely to look at the curriculum more comprehensively and in its entirety and, if that pleases, perhaps to do so periodically. In this system, we can periodically review whether our education needs to be revised in terms of content rather than leaving 20, 30 years intact to find out that it is hopelessly out of date. That's a very good way to keep up with the times. Mrs Straus has tabled an amendment. I wonder what exactly it adds to the current offer. In fact, Mrs Straus is asking for it to be possible to trade a general formative trade for a professionally oriented trade. If that's what you're doing, I think you're actually doing what you're doing in the gl.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-19.u33	I have two questions in one. I will answer the question of the Secretary of State first. The idea is to leave the vmbo-t intact as much as possible, except at one point. You give these students the opportunity to choose not only from general courses, but also from vocational electives rather than from one of those general courses. We can see that it would be very good if these children, who very often go to MBO or via HAVO to HBO, were already given a little more vocational training in their programme. We now have the opportunity to do so in the VMBO. It is a very small step to offer these two options. The Secretary of State states in his note following the report that many schools already offer this to pupils, but not all schools yet. We would like to see all schools giving vmbo-t pupils the opportunity to opt for professional electives in that choice room.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-19.u34	I'm just looking. I fully agree with Mrs Straus that it can be very useful to include a professionally oriented elective, but that is in fact the gl?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-19.u35	No, the Secretary of State himself has chosen to allow students to choose from the ten profiles in the gl; that is also the diploma they receive. That's a different degree than vmbo-t. The point is that students who already know that they are going to flow and want to go to the university, who later want to take a certain course of vocational training and already want to orientate themselves on it, will be given the opportunity to follow two vocational elective courses in this case, because they give the same weight as one general course.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-19.u36	I know the system very well. I will look at the amendment very carefully, because it is not quite clear to me what it adds. Another complication is that there are categoral mavos that only offer tl. If they also have to offer professional profiles, this requires a huge investment from these schools. They often don't have practice rooms. On a broad vmbo it's a lot easier. If you have from bb to tl, you also have the practice teachers and the practice rooms nearby. However, this is not always the case with category mavos. I would like to return to the second point in detail in order to give an opinion on this amendment, with Mrs Straus' explanatory statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-19.u37	Mrs Straus, I doubt to give you the floor again, because the Secretary of State has indicated that he will return to this matter in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-19.u38	Just one small comment, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-19.u39	Since it is an amendment, I will take my hand over my heart and give you the floor again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-19.u40	I will make it very brief, Mr President. The Secretary of State himself states in the bill that it is possible to take electives on another vmbo or even at a company. So that could very well be the case in this case. Schools that offer only vmbo-t or still call themselves mavo and therefore offer only a vmbo-t program, for example, in consultation with another vmbo may give the student the opportunity to take elective courses.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-19.u41	That possibility always exists, of course, to do a course on top of the standard package that is asked of you in the tl and that is indeed general formative. If we were to insert this amendment so precisely, I think it would be a right of a student to drop one of his avo-boxes. As a result, the fluorescent character, the general forming character, decreases somewhat and becomes very similar to gl or it may become identical to it. In combination with this, there is a right for students to make use of it if you incorporate it in the law. Then it is no longer a choice to work with a company or to do an extra internship. There are vmbos where it is easy to organize within the wide school or with a school nearby. However, I think you are asking for a substantial investment from category mavos. I shall look at it just as carefully, including the explanatory statement given by Mrs Straus, and come back to it in the second term. Then I come to the support section and, in fact, to the question of whether education is now ready. The introduction of the new profiles requires a great deal from the schools. I also note that there is a lot of energy in schools. We have now started at 48 pilot schools. The reactions are enthusiastic. It is also stated that this is about the core of what is actually being done and what is needed. At the same time, it's a lot of work. The introduction takes a lot of time. Schools have to make choices in their educational offerings and think about combinations, profiles and electives. They have to translate exam programs. In the meantime, the students should be taught as well. So that is a huge task. This school year, together with Stichting Platforms VMBO, the VO-raad, de MBO Raad, VNO-NCW and SMBs, I will focus on professionalisation, communication and the building of regional networks that are needed to make this work. There is also everything available online. Regional information and training meetings are also organised. With the introduction of the ten broad profiles, there is of course also a change for the work of teachers. Take a lecturer in motor vehicle technology who is about to give mobility and transport. In fact, he's trained for part of that profile. Transport is a whole new field of expertise. That also means something for the training. That is why we are talking with training courses to see how it can fit well with the other. Mr Beertema asked if everyone would be ready. I think we should be real. This whole process is faster than, for example, the renewal of courses in general form. We started this in 2011. At that time, development committees were set up with VMBO and MBO teachers. Four years later, we are discussing this bill. However, I also see the call from education itself. They say: do this now, because it's getting more and more complicated to take care of all those profiles; this is really what it takes. That is one of the reasons why we have not waited for developments in recent years. Some schools have already started to work on a pilot basis. That means that we should not just start some kind of start-up. We're actually making a flying start. However, it is also real to say that when schools start, they can choose for themselves whether to do so in 2016 or in 2017, it is not simply the switch and that everything is ready. Schools will have to grow in it and may also make decisions that they say will change in 2017. I'd say learning by doing. At the same time, it is being worked very hard, extra money is available for all kinds of training courses and I see that a lot of schools are spending time working together with their teams on this. Mrs Jadnansing asked whether the teacher training courses are fully ready. We have been closely involved in teacher training over the past four years, but it is not the case that as of 2016 new teachers will automatically roll out of the courses that have already been fully trained towards the new profiles. This also requires further training for them. That's okay. We all said yesterday, also in the context of teachers: you have never finished learning. So this training is as good for them as it is for the sitting teachers. We are in conversation with courses on conversion tables. This concerns the question of how old diplomas relate to the new profiles and when exactly you are competent. At the same time, we are trying to establish a network of teacher training courses for those vocationally oriented courses as well as possible. We're not there yet. For the larger classes as an economy, we are a long way off. We're not here for the smaller classes. This is not the case even now with the 35 profiles. There is no kind of teacher training for hairdressing. So we will have to look at how we organise it. One of the things we encounter here is that there are and will remain small profiles and compartments with the present ten profiles. You may wonder if there will ever be a teacher's education that can provide it. Let me give you the example of maritime and engineering. That's given at three VMBO schools. About 20 teachers are currently involved. You can hardly ask for teacher training to set up a whole programme for such a small target group. That requires different, smarter ways of looking at that kind of skills. We also discussed this in the AO teachers this morning. I shall come back to this shortly in the letter on the unauthorized plan of action.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-19.u42	The Secretary of State states that for some subjects, some profiles do not yet know how that will work out. He said in a letter that he would come back to a number of things that were discussed this morning in that AO, which I was not with. Can the Secretary of State give a little more image and sound in how this is actually going to take shape?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-19.u43	I will. By the way, very recently, a month or two ago, I wrote a rather comprehensive letter about professionalisation. That has a very close relationship with the new profiles. In it we describe precisely what we are going to do in the short term in order to make progress towards the profiles. For example, we are putting 5.5 million more into further training and what we are doing in the longer term by making good agreements with teacher training. The question of what that means for the powers will be included in that plan of action. Mrs Jadnansing also mentioned pedagogy in VMBO. That is certainly very relevant in the bottom step, because then it is not only about didactics but also about the approach and questions like how to make sure that the boys and girls get a step further. Pedagogy and didactics go hand in hand. By the way, I give a big compliment to a lot of VMBs who do that perfectly. Again, there is a question of competence. We see that the lower steps of the VMBO often involve pabo lecturers. They are very good at that, especially in things like teaching basic skills like language and arithmetic. They're unauthorized now. We also need to look closely at that part. In the area of professionalisation and competence, Mrs Straus asked whether we could not make more use of Article 114, i.e. the 114 declaration. Discretionary power to declare some teachers competent on the basis of competence requirements. That's kind of an exception clause. We can use them here and there, but I also think we should look at whether we can first make good arrangements with teacher training courses for VMBO to ensure that these teachers are properly trained. I am not so much in favour of saying right now for very large groups: we are going to launder them by means of a 114 declaration. So let's see how far we get in the conversion table, which places training on the new profiles. Let's see if we can make arrangements with teacher training courses for developing and offering new courses, and keep this explanation for exceptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-19.u44	I thank the Secretary of State for this commitment, at least if I may interpret it as a commitment. This is not mentioned in the letter in which he indicates how he deals with these powers in the VMBO. I would therefore be delighted if, in the action plan against unauthorized teachers, the Secretary of State would like to devote a paragraph to this commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-19.u45	That's what I'm gonna do. A lot of questions have been asked about LOB. I think it is one of the nice parts of this legislative proposal that we guarantee it very well for these professional profiles, and therefore for the basic, framework and mixed learning path. I also note that schools are increasingly involved in shaping LOBs, but sometimes schools are still a bit searching. I note that projects such as Champs on Stage help greatly. At the same time, LOB, career guidance, should not only take place outside the school. This also means reflecting internally on what is happening there, taking students by hand and helping people, as far as I can in good cooperation. I think it is one of the subjects that we will consider a little more in detail in the implementation of the Jadnansing/Straus motion, which has been adopted in the framework of the Education budget. The Minister and I are going to work together to set up this plan of action, because the authors of the motion are quite right when they say that this is something that is not only in the professional profiles but also in the tl, and actually also in the havo and vwo, in short: in the whole of education. In this context, we shall come back to that in detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-19.u46	It's special that the Secretary of State says that the career file is one of the most beautiful things in the bill, but that he doesn't come back until later on the theoretical learning path. Can the Secretary of State state state why he considers that it is not necessary for pupils or pupils of VMBO-T to produce a career file? They must also focus on appeals, and perhaps follow-up studies, and create a serious dossier for them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-19.u47	I fully agree with Mrs Siderius, but this bill deals with the professional profiles. We've been able to take that into account. For the vmbo-tl, closure with a LOB file or a portfolio is not yet mandatory. In fact, I can see that a lot of schools already do that in practice. I have just indicated, also in response to the Jadnansing/Straus motion, that we are asking for a plan of action to ensure LOB well throughout education, that this is perhaps an element that we can take very well into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-19.u48	This bill is about vmbo. One of the things in the bill is that we're trying to make terminology the same for all learning paths. In the vmbo-tl we no longer talk about "sectors" but about "profiles," because we want to join the other learning paths. Then it is strange that we say in the career orientation: for the first three learning paths we do the career file, but if you do vmbo-t, you don't have to and then a school can see for itself what it does about it. Unfortunately, many schools still do not have this in order. This is precisely the time to say: we are going to ensure that this is well organised for the Mavo variant as well and that it becomes a mandatory part of the programme. If the Secretary of State thinks this is so important, then I don't understand why he's not gonna fist on the table right now and say he's gonna take care of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-19.u49	Mrs Siderius is trying to widen the political differences, while I do not think there are such terrible differences on this part at all. This concerns the renewal of professional profiles. We've been working on that in the past few years. It's been experimented with. It has been considered how it can be given a good place and how it lands in schools. I do not have the illusion that if we now propose with an amendment or a letter of amendment that it also applies to the VMBO-TL, this will happen immediately. With this bill, let us codify and secure the professional profiles well and see how we can ensure the lessons that we draw from this and how we can secure the place that LOB gets in this, also in the other education sectors. We'll get back to that soon. I indicated that a number of schools are already doing it in practice. As far as career records are concerned, I would say to Mrs Straus that, in my opinion, the elements she points out are already coming back, on the basis of a number of LOB competences. I call quality reflection (what can I do best?), motif reflection (for whom?), work exploration (where am I most in place?), career guidance (why right there?) and networks. So I have the impression that it is very well secured, particularly in the professional profiles. Mr Rog asked if this €15 per pupil would be sufficient. It's part of the lumpsum. So it is not the case that schools are allowed to spend "only €15 per pupil." We have had very long discussions about the lump sum and the use of resources. Given its size in the overall lumpsum and the way in which career orientation now gets a place in the overall education curriculum, I think schools can fit it very well. Especially when you're also hanging out with local business, you're not only making career orientation very lively, but you can also make sure that it doesn't have to cost a lot of money. This is a nice little bridge to the block "How do we involve local business?" There are a lot of vmbos who do this on their own. I am thinking, for example, of Schoonhovens College, where I was recently. It is fantastic: 50 companies from the region who have joined that school as sponsor. I also call it Teylingen College. For schools where things are less good, I am working together with employers' organisations VNO-NCW and SMEs-Netherlands, the trade associations and their regional partners to strengthen cooperation between education and industry in the region. In addition, there is a network of passionate practical teachers who, as ambassadors, assist the schools and give advice on how to set up this cooperation in a good way. It also examines the extent to which already existing regional partnerships can be linked, in which companies are often organised.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-19.u50	I'd like to talk to the Secretary of State about this. It is true that there are schools that act as best practice in this area. Recently we received a study commissioned by the Platform Beta Techniek and the Foundation Platforms VMBO. It emerged from this that only 18% of the schools, at least of the respondents in this study, indicate that LOB is developing structuralally with industry. Only 18%. So there's still a lot that don't do it. How can we ensure that all schools do it? I would like the other 82% of the schools to offer this LOB to these children as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-19.u51	This can be done by showing together with employers' organisations that it is possible and how you organise it in a good way. Cooperation with industry is wider than just career orientation. I am in favour of involving industry in the profiling courses and electives. There will be schools that organise career orientation together with business. In addition, there will be schools whose deans say that they prefer career orientation with the school team rather than with the business community, while in other fields within the school there is very good cooperation with the business community. I'd like to see exactly what that survey has been like. To be honest, I find the percentages mentioned in the study what on the low side if I compare them with what I see in the schools.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-19.u52	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-19.u53	Mrs Straus asked whether the inspection could also play a role in this. I think that's a more complicated question. We have had a recent discussion here about the role of inspection and that it should look in particular at the adequacy requirements. In any case, this is not a necessity. The inspection also focuses on the quality of education. I do not think it fits in immediately to extract an element very specifically. What I do think is a good idea is to involve people in business, for example as a second examiner. This is something that Mrs Straus asked for and whatever she could. Some schools already involve business people in the practical programmes. I see that happening, for example, at the hospitality schools, where cooks look at the practical exams and assess them. It is purely a question of working well with the business community, so that you can involve those people. Mrs Straus asked a question about the criterion that vocational electives should be developed in conjunction with further education and regional business. I totally agree with this. That will also be a tough criterion. I am going to have an advisory committee advise me on the definition of professional electives. This will include an expert from the Foundation Collaboration Vocational Education Business Life, the SBB. This opinion will be taken into account in the final definition of the electives. Finally, a few questions that pass the bill but relate to the VMBO. In fact, these two relate directly to it. A question from Mrs Jadnanancing is about social studies and social science. Now there are two profile-related general forming subjects for all sections. For MVI, mathematics and nask 1 are now requested, precisely at the request of industry and further education. If I get signals that social science is more important, it's another point to reconsider. That is not the case at the moment. Social education is a compulsory subject for all pupils and belongs to the common part.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-19.u54	I've asked questions about that, too. For example, for the MBO, the NRO looks at how citizenship can be better embedded. Does the Secretary of State see possibilities to see if this can be taken into account in such an NRO research, especially for Care and Well-being and for Media and ICT?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-19.u55	I understand that question, because it is actually a broad question of citizenship. That is also a theme that has encouraged Mrs Jadnansing. I see that this has not yet been properly secured in width. So maybe I can take this with me in the NRO study.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-19.u56	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-19.u57	I come to Mrs Straus' question about 15-year-old students in the third grade of VMBO. Can they also carry out more risky work in the context of labour law? There's a lot of reason for this law of labor. It is also there to protect the health of pupils. Students in the third grade of VMBO must of course take an internship that suits their age. This may be challenging, but the real professional practice is only followed in the MBO. So if you don't get it in vmbo, there is more room for it in your further education. Then the children are also older and you can expose them to more challenging or occupationally dangerous situations. Mr President, I have run out of questions with that. We have also had a lot of discussions about elements that are not so much in the legislative proposal as they are very relevant. I am also looking forward to the wider discussion on the future of VMBO, which we will be conducting in response to the report of the Education Council.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-19.u58	It is a good thing that you are looking forward to that, because Mrs Siderius has another question about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-19.u59	I am still sad to hear the answer on the interim change of profile, and Mr Rog is probably also waiting. I asked a question about that. I also asked Mr Rog a question about this and he could not answer, so he has the question more or less...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-19.u60	... again underlined!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-19.u61	... again underlined.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-19.u62	If you'll allow me, I'll come back to that in second term. I'm gonna have to pop up the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-19.u63	In doing so, the Secretary of State has indicated that there will be a second term. I was about to ask: is there a need for a second term? In any case, the Secretary of State needs it. Do the spokesmen need a second term? Mrs. Siderius does.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-19.u64	Mr. Chairman. I have a number of motions. The first concerns the inclusion of the career file as a mandatory part of the theoretical learning path. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that working on a career file becomes a mandatory part for all pupils in the vocational learning pathways and the mixed learning pathway in VMBO;]] [[considers career orientation to be at least as important for the theoretical learning path as for the vocationally oriented learning pathways;]] [[calls on the Government to include the establishment of a career file as a mandatory part of the theoretical learning path;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Siderius, Mr Jadnansing and Mr Straus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34184-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-19.u65	I also have a motion on the double ban when transferring from Mavo to Havo. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that schools are still free to opt for a double ban on HAVO for qualified former VMBO students;]] [[noting that almost 20% of VMBO graduates are making the transition to the HAVO;]] [[considers that a VMBO-T diploma should provide a barrier-free access to the HAVO;]] [[calls on the Government to make legally impossible the possibility for schools to opt for a double ban on HAVO for qualified former VMBO students,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Siderius. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34184-11]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-19.u66	With a VVD pen I added some more. The Secretary of State has not yet been able to answer a question from me, either because he had lost the question, or because it was a very complicated question. My question was about the interim switching to another profile. I shall table a motion for a resolution on this matter. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that switching to another profile in VMBO is not possible in all schools and that this can often only be done in the third year;]] [[Considers that it should be possible for each pupil to change their profile at any time;]] [[calls on the Government to make it possible for pupils at each school to switch to another profile in VMBO at any time,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Siderius. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34184-12]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-19.u67	Depending on the answer of the Secretary of State, I may amend the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-19.u68	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for replying. We have tabled an amendment. I have listened carefully to the Secretary of State and we will amend the amendment. The adjustment we want to make is that it will be a choice over and above the regular programme of vmbo-t, but that is a choice for all pupils in vmbo-t to take a professionally oriented course. The amended amendment will be sent to the Chamber. Do I understand correctly that the Secretary of State says in the first term that he wants to see whether someone from the business community could also play the role as a second or third examiner in the exam? Is that what the Secretary of State is going to take into account in the investigation he is currently doing about this? If that's the case, I'd like that very much. Now I'm gonna get to the armory. We did not ask for all this to be changed immediately, but we would like the Secretary of State to discuss this with the sector and see if there are any bottlenecks there. Because we hear that there are problems. We understand very well that you should not immediately expose young children to all kinds of dangerous situations, but it would be very sad if 16-year-olds could do an attractive internship when they are not allowed to do it as a 15-year-old. Maybe we can watch that. I'm filing three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas a career record is introduced in VMBO;]] [[Whereas the explanatory memorandum for the career file contains a narrow definition which takes into account only the knowledge and experience acquired at school;]] [[Considering that, in addition to what they learn at school, pupils also discover who they are, what they consider important in life, where their talents lie and how they would like to develop them further towards the future;]] [[calls on the Government to broaden its definition of the career file so that personal development becomes central and insightful,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Straus and Mr Jadnansing. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34184-13]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-19.u69	Now I'm filing my second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the competent authority shall decide which professional electives are to be offered;]] [[Whereas the explanatory memorandum to the amendment of the law states that coordination in the regional plan is not mandatory but recommended;]] [[Considering that the selection of electives may be important for enabling continuous learning towards MBO institutions and for coordination with regional business;]] [[calls on the Government to include in the General Administrative Measure on the rules of the occupational electives in the selection of electives to be consulted by the competent authority on regional business and MBO institutions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas a strong VMBO with close links with regional business and the associated MBO is of great importance for stimulating and strengthening craftsmanship;]] [[noting that there are many indicators showing the extent to which there is structural contact with regional business and MBO institutions;]] [[calls on the Government to include the Education Inspectorate in a separate section of the inspection report on how the school maintains contact with regional business and MBO institutions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Straus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34184-14]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Straus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34184-15]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-19.u70	Mr. Chairman. I'll start with the questions. Mrs Straus asked if she understood the answer about the second and third examiner correctly. The answer to that is yes. She asked me if I'd like to take the subject of arbo with me in the conversations with the business community. I will. From the first term, the question was still open about switching between profiles. Of course, the most natural moment is often the third year. Nothing forbids doing it in other years, but a student often has to catch up. The question is whether this is always in his interest, because he will have to stay in school longer or work longer. It is possible, however, in principle.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-19.u71	The essence of the question was different, namely that not every vmbo school at all gives the opportunity to switch between the profiles. That is, of course, a pity, because someone might have chosen Techniek and could have thought in the middle of the year: maybe Green suits me better. Wouldn't it be nice if you could make that switch instead of waiting? That's the point. Maybe the Secretary of State can respond to that. I understand that my motion is a little broad. I'm gonna take a look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-19.u72	I have the impression that this is already possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-19.u73	That's great, but there are schools where this can't be done. And that's the problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-19.u74	But then the question is what exactly does Mrs Siderius want?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-19.u75	An obligation?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-19.u76	Oh, another obligation from The Hague...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-19.u77	Very funny, but no, I think that as a student you should be able to change profiles if you think: Technique doesn't fit me very well, I want to go to Green, for example because it fits better with my further education in the MBO. We are not going to say to students: do you still have to stay with Techniek even though you want to do a green MBO education later? I do not think that is desirable at all. So I'd really like the Secretary of State to take a look at this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-19.u78	Perhaps I could ask Mrs Siderius for the motion in part No. 12 to keep up, take this subject with you and talk to schools about what exactly it would mean. I know schools where you can switch perfectly. Usually that happens in the third year, when you go to the superstructure. That's a logical moment. If you want to do it at all times and make it a kind of right of a student, then there are very far-reaching consequences. Mrs Siderius says that it is possible, but the current practice is that schools do not really want to start it or do not want to approve it. I want to get a good look at that, take it and discuss it with schools. I'll get back to her on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-19.u79	Fine, then I'll take the motion to part no. 12 hold on. Can the Secretary of State give an indication of when we will get more information about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-19.u80	I think we can do this in spring. In that case, we already have a very sad discussion about the transition from VMBO to Havo, switching and flexibility in the system. I think it's very good for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-19.u81	At the request of Mrs Siderius, I propose her motion (34184), No. 12), as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 40/94 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the common organisation of the market in fruit and vegetables. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-19.u82	I would like to come back to the amendment on item No. 9 by Mrs Straus. She indicated she was going to change it. I haven't seen it yet, but when I hear it like that, I think I can do better with it, because then it actually gets better. I could then leave the opinion on the amendment to the House. Should that judgment change on the basis of the final amendment, I will send it to the Chamber in writing. Then there's the motions. On the motion in part No. I can leave the judgment to the Chamber. The motion in part No. I would like to advise against this, because she is very deeply interfering with the room that schools have to make for their own consideration. The motion in part No. 12 has been apprehended. With the motion in part No. 13 I am asked to define these career files more broadly. I have the impression that this is already in place, so I think the motion is a little superfluous. It's part of those five career skills. If Mrs Straus and Mrs Jadnansing have the impression that it may have an extra accent, then I leave the vote to the Chamber. As a result of the motion, we will look again at whether it is so explicit. The vote will take place at the next voting time. I can leave 14 to the Chamber. The motion in part No. I really don't recommend 15 on the inspection. This would again be an additional task for the inspection on the basis of a component that is not part of the robustness requirements and requires a lot of additional capacity.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-19.u83	The vote on the bill, the amendments and the motions will take place on 24 November. I'll close the meeting and wish you all a safe journey home.
