ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment, Mr Asscher. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Ulenbelt of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u2	Mr. Chairman. In over 100 years of struggle by the workers' movement, a great deal of exploitation has been combated, abuses have been cleared up and labour has been made more humane. Cao's have proved indispensable. However, we have been seeing a turnaround for a few years. The emergence of rogue temporary agency companies and constantly new structures to evade wage and working conditions lead to underpayment and exploitation. The minister was very firm in 2013. He said, "I'm gonna do all these new constructions, these fake constructions." With this bill, he fulfills part of that promise. The bill introduces chain liability. The employee can now claim his unpaid salary, not only from his direct boss, but also from the client of that boss and from the principal contractor and the principal contractor. You could think of that as the "step-on" method. You start at the bottom and you go up. Anyone who cleans his own house knows that if you clean stairs, you don't start at the bottom, you start at the top. That's the most efficient thing. Why did the Minister choose the "step-on" method rather than the much more efficient "step-off" method? Any cleaner could have told him that. Why doesn't the Minister do that? With the "strap-off" method you can directly hold the main contractor, the principal contractor liable for wages that have not been paid. It is then the task of that principal contractor, that main contractor, to go into the chain that he himself organized to claim that wage. In many situations in the Netherlands, we have done so. If someone has built a house and a defect has been made by an installer, then he does not have to hold that installer liable, then he holds the contractor liable and goes further after it. In cars ditto. If someone has a car and a component is defective, then he does not have to hold the person who made that part liable, but then he holds the manufacturer of that car liable. We have arranged this in many more places in the Netherlands. After all, it is also the client who has the advantage of being underpaid somewhere in the chain? In one way or another, this has resulted in a lower price, which is for the sole benefit of the client. There is therefore every reason to hold that client liable first. Does the Minister agree with the SP that this "strap-off" method is the best way to tackle this underpayment? I have had the impression from the past that this is also the Minister's preference. Can he confirm that? He's had to make a lot of concessions in the coalition to get down the stairs, up the stairs. I don't want to kick his ass, that's not nice, but I'm curious as to how that was done. This morning we could hear Mr Mulder from BNR and he said that it had gone back and forth quite a bit and that even the group chairmen of the coalition parties had to be involved in solving the problem. I think working Netherlands has a right to know exactly what happened there. In addition, stairs cost more energy. This means that the employee or his union must take all kinds of steps to achieve his justice. That is precious, and that in itself is an obstacle to achieving that right. This afternoon we received a petition from the FNV. Most of the spokesmen were there as well. The petition states that people want good chain liability, so that principals and principals are responsible for compliance with the collective agreement and legislation. That is actually the exact opposite of what is happening in this bill. The Minister tweeted: they are demonstrating for the adoption of this bill. But in fact, the amendment I tabled is a much better implementation of what these people came to offer 27,000 signatures for. In the amendment I propose, the underpaid worker or his representative may hold the principal contractor or principal contractor liable.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u3	I was also at the union demonstration this afternoon. Can Mr Ulenbelt remember what people were chanting when he criticized this law?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u4	Yes. They said, "take it, take it." But that's not the text those 27,000 people signed up to. So yes... I do justice to the text. I think that's what they want. You're doing something else, I know that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u5	Mr President, I do not know whether Mr Ulenbelt is now claiming that the largest trade union organization in the Netherlands has not been paying attention in the run-up to this law. I can assure you that there were quite a few people among whom I know that these people are well aware of the content of this law and that "accepting" was a well-informed and well-informed "accepting."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u6	I can only observe that in the text of the petition many people, whom I also know, said'read that petition well' and I have done so as I have just said. That is a different question than the one answered by this law. That is why I made this amendment. That is most right for those 27,000 people who have signed the petition they have formulated. That seems very clear to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u7	Mr Ulenbelt continued his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u8	I want to do justice to that petition. If we had settled it in this way, the problem with which it all began was solved quickly with the Eemshaven, with the projects of Rijkswaterstaat....................................................................................................................................................................................... The way in which my amendment is worded is not new at all. Since 1990, the Tax Administration has been working in this way on the basis of the Recovery Act 1990. Everywhere in the chain one can claim premiums and payroll taxes, even without the intervention of the judge. Now, in this case, I do not want to go that far in the pay story, but it is not that weird to settle it that way. I am shocked by the definition of "serious exploitation." In the case of less than 70% of the minimum wage or less than 50% of the collective wage, there is a serious underpayment according to the definition of this law. Two employers' organizations, not the smallest in this problem, namely the contractor federation and the company association for winding down companies, point out to us that as early as 90% of the underpayment will be paid 10% less than the actual wage, which is significant cost advantages for the companies that work with this underpayment. This law is also designed to prevent unfair competition differences between, for example, contractors. If two reputable employers' organisations point out to us that the law is inadequate in terms of removing competitive advantages for underpaid employers, we must listen to it. That is why I have tabled an amendment to apply that limit. My group is surprised that only the unpaid wages can be recovered. In European rules, we are talking about a hard core of working conditions. That's more than pay. We do not know that in the Netherlands. I think it is very important for both the employee and the competing contractor who is not underpaid, that not only wages can be recovered, but also other aspects of the contract of employment can be cashed. I have also tabled an amendment to that effect. This is formulated as: all aspects of the contract of employment that can be valued in money can be reported in that chain. I'm surprised nothing's been arranged about fines. We consider subpayment to be fraudulent, especially when it comes to serious underpayment. That is why I have proposed to increase the wage claim by 50% of the amount and, in the event of a recurrence of the same employee, even by 100%. The amount must be for the benefit of the employee. After all, he has been out of pay for a long time, making costs and perhaps making debts. It seems reasonable to me to offer this form of compensation. If the Fraud Act is revised, it could be amended and brought into line with the fines laid down in that law. From employers' circles now come pleas to allow deductions from wages, which make this law impossible. This concerns deductions for housing, care and transport. The messages are mainly from the broadcasting industry. I can see why that's what people want. One uses dramatic arguments, such as lifeability and uninsurability, but that is a bit of drama that you see on stage, but which in reality doesn't happen. These deductions have become part of the pay model of temporary employment agencies. They're offering housing. One can hardly say no to that. However, this accommodation is far too expensive. Go, checkout for the temp agency. The same applies to health insurance. I assume that colleagues have read de Volkskrant this morning about this point, the work of CNV Vakmensen. That article shows very clearly that there are health insurers in the Dutch market who only focus on migrant workers and offer collective contracts. In doing so, the temporary employment agencies receive a discount, but instead of passing it on to the staff, they put it in their pockets. I understand, however, that the deductions made by temporary agency agencies are essentially earned and that this is the real reason why they would like to make those deductions. I hope that the Minister will not give in to the noises that we will undoubtedly hear from the VVD in order to do something about that. Do not let the Minister be fooled by temporary employment agencies and their spokesmen here in the Lower House. In the history of the workers' movement, the fight against forced shopping has been very important. That struggle was used to become independent of the employer. The moment we leave the deductions in place, we go back to history in that respect. The law provides for the possibility of a General Measure of Management to be issued in which certain deductions can be made. I ask the Minister what he is thinking about and what arguments could be put forward. The bill makes grail pay mandatory, but only for the minimum wage. My question to the Minister is: why not for collective wage agreements? Otherwise, it wouldn't be possible to check deductions from the collective wage, would it? My group has asked for the debate to be postponed, because on Tuesday the Minister suddenly issued a letter of amendment to a law that has already been adopted here. It's a legislative change that seasonal workers face. Season workers are disadvantaged in the event of dismissal. We had a debate on this a few weeks ago. At that time, the Minister did not want to deal with this at all. The SP was the only one in the Chamber who supported the minister in that. He said he was coming with a letter. We had already set a date on which we could discuss it. To my great surprise, the Minister delivered that letter of amendment on Tuesday. I would like to discuss the consequences of that letter of amendment with the Minister. Or better yet, I'd have liked the time to figure it all out. My questions are as follows: has there been consultation with employers and unions? What did they say there? Do they agree to the Minister's proposal now? Why didn't he comment on the CNV's suggestion to arrange it for seasonal workers by collective agreement? What does this mean for the dismissal rights of people who do non-seasonal work, such as temporary work, not in horticulture, but in metal or in health care? What does this mean for people in education who have many subsequent temporary contracts? The Minister's success was that he had promised that people on temporary contracts would be treated equally as permanent workers. This amendment removes it. I want to know what sectors this is in, how many people it is, and how much money these people are short? FNV Bouw made a film about fakes in construction. Mr Mulder and Mr Kerstens also saw that film, because they were sitting there with me. In it is the example of four roofers on the same roof, with the same work, but two are employees and two are zzp'ers. This law regulates the wage story in the chain for the employees. But what can thezzp'ers do if their invoice is not paid by the client? Then who can they contact? Would the Minister like to find out whether a similar arrangement can be made for bona fidezzp's if it is intended for employees? From my many proposals for improvement, it can be seen that the SP does not see this bill as a tough diamond that cuts labour relations. It's a nice cut piece of glass, though. You can do nice things with that, too. If we want to make a diamond out of it, the Minister should say: those amendments from the SP, that will help the FNV.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u9	I would like to ask a question about Mr Ulenbelt's last point, namely the letter we received last Tuesday. My reading followed this entirely from the promises made by the Minister to the Chamber in the debate on employment a few weeks ago. These were requested throughout the Chamber, except for the SP. In the letter we received on Tuesday, the Minister quite clearly states that it is an unintentional and undesirable effect as a result of which workers do not get that job. The consideration in the choice he makes is that he prefers job retention to obtaining compensation. Does the SP choose the opposite? Does the SP prefer remuneration to job retention?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u10	You work for a paycheck. That job has to pay off. That has nothing to do with that either. All these companies say they have such good people that they want to keep so badly. I say to them, do it! Flex has a price. If I get my plane ticket for a fixed time, I'll pay less than for an open ticket. Season workers are open to employers, so they should pay more for them. The law had also provided for better remuneration for these people, but it is now being drilled through their noses. I say solve this in the sector. They said this was an unintended effect. But the unintended effect will be, although I do not hope that this will also apply to people outside seasonal work, in education, in health care and in temporary employment agencies. It means that someone with a fixed contract will have a long working history and someone with a revolving door contract, in a revolving door structure, who has worked for just as long, will get nothing. That is the unintended consequence of that change. I would like to clarify that. That has nothing to do with job or no job. That boss in horticulture just needs to pay a little more. And if he doesn't fire people, it's not gonna cost him anything. That's my reasoning.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u11	In my view, the intended effect of this letter of amendment, which the entire Chamber has requested, is that an unintentional effect of the law be resolved. Because of the promise of the transition fee, the reality for those people was not a job. The Minister has also explicitly said here: rather a job than that remuneration. Mr Ulenbelt just gave a very long answer, but no answer to the question. Does Mr Ulenbelt prefer the opposite?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u12	I choose well-paid work with equal rights for flex workers and permanent workers. If I were to go along with Mr Heerma's reasoning, I would think that the unintended effect of the amendment tabled by the Minister on Tuesday is that a lot of people in those many other sectors who have nothing to do with seasonal work but in which there are many temporary contracts will also miss their severance payments. The intention of the law was precisely to treat flex and firmly equally. The change in the law will nullify it. I've got a big problem with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u13	Mr Ulenbelt spoke earlier in his speech about the Dutch Confederation of Contractors, the club of small and medium-sized enterprises in the construction sector. Has Mr Ulenbelt taken note of the press release on the Fake Constructions Act that the Contractors Federation has sent into the world today?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u14	No, I didn't. I base myself on the letter she sent to the House of Representatives a few days ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u15	I'll get the lyrics. In its press release today, the Federation of Contractors, i.e. small and medium-sized enterprises in construction, stated that the Act's approach has the full support of the Federation of Contractors and that rapid implementation is highly desirable. I have a second question for Mr Ulenbelt. Does he realize that if he finally votes against this Law approach, he will oppose the wishes of the trade union movement and of small and medium-sized enterprises in a number of sectors, while he will be on the same side as Building the Netherlands, the club of the clients in the construction industry and the main contractors, who are now starting to feel the most of this law?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u16	I find this rather demagogic by the representative of the Labour Party. I base myself on a neat letter from this federation and another organization. I didn't see a letter withdrawing it. If they thought this was so important, I'm sure they would have told me. Moreover, there are all sorts of newspaper articles in which spokesmen from these organisations say so. So where did the press release come from? I don't know. Phones can be hacked, anything can be hacked. I didn't get that press release. And as far as the representatives of the FNV are concerned, I think I've been ready to go. I explained what was in the text of the petition. 27,000 people signed her. Mr. Kerstens refers to 50 men on the Square. Well, he often chooses the wrong minority, and I often choose the right majority. I think that is the case in this case.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u17	Apart from what is in press releases, I have to say to Mr Kerstens that this bill certainly involves improvements for many employees. Perhaps it does not go far enough for Mr Ulenbelt. It's possible. We have every right to debate this in this Chamber. However, would Mr Ulenbelt, who says that it does not go far enough and that he is against it, want to take the consequence that not even a little improvement will be achieved for the worker who is now being exploited?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u18	If Mrs Schouten has listened carefully, she has not heard me express a final opinion on this bill. If I had, I wouldn't have had to take part in this debate. I've been asking questions to the Minister. I have tabled amendments to improve the proposal. This afternoon, too, I say this to Mr Kerstens........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ That is why I am taking part in this debate and have made five serious amendments. We'll see what comes out of it. This ultimately determines the voting behaviour of my group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u19	I mean it sincerely when I say that I find it commendable in Mr Ulenbelt that he is always looking at how he can improve the legislative proposal according to his insights. He has now done so, and we are going to wait for the Minister's answer to that. However, does Mr Ulenbel consider this bill to be an improvement on the position of the worker who is now being exploited, regardless of whether these amendments are being adopted?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u20	If you compare the way things are going now with what is being proposed here, that is a step forward. My doubt is whether that step will be sufficient to deal effectively and effectively with the phony constructions and exploitation. I have my doubts about that. That is why I have gone into this in such detail and I ask the Minister why we are not using the step-on-step method. Probably not because the VVD doesn't want us to. I would like to hear that in the debate and then the Netherlands will know what is going on. However, Mrs Schouten knows the SP Group. If there is only one millimeter improvement compared to what it was like, we tend to support legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u21	Mr. Chairman. I would like to take up Mr Ulenbelt's last words and remember that his group voted against the quota law. I still can't quite rhyme that, but that aside. Today we are discussing the Fake Constructions Act, but a few days ago we received a letter of amendment to repair an unintentional effect from the Work and Security Act for seasonal workers. Mr Ulenbelt has already mentioned this. With the exception of the Socialist Party, I believe that the Minister will respond to a wide-ranging request from the Chamber in order to find a solution to an unintended outcome which threatened to result in many seasonal workers, who have often been working with a certain boss for many years, losing their jobs or no longer being hired. I am therefore pleased that the Minister has come up with that letter of amendment. I regret that he had to make a salomon judgment and the social partners did not come out, but I think it is a very defensive solution. As far as I can tell, I don't have a glass ball, either. This means that people who were afraid that their job was on the road and they wouldn't be hired can now breathe relievedly. I'll ask the Minister to keep his finger on the wrist. At present, my group and most of my colleagues believe that this is a workable solution. However, I continue to think it is important to take a close look at whether the seasonal workers are actually not being hired or fired. We all want to avoid this, and we need to see whether this letter of amendment is adequate. That is why I am making this request to the Minister. Then I come to the actual Law approach fakes constructions. It's a good thing that law comes. Shape constructions you have to deal with. Malicious constructions lead to the exploitation of often vulnerable workers. Today at the Square and earlier during all kinds of conversations we have heard examples of people who sometimes ended up in that position very annoying. We can't let that go. Unfair competition is not only bad for the workers affected by it, but also for all those employers and workers who do comply with the law and who are less likely to have jobs and contracts. That is why my group will support this law; let me say that right now. I do have a few more questions. My first question concerns the prohibition of deduction from the minimum wage. The purpose of this measure has my support. Against crooked entrepreneurs with ridiculously high rents, you have to act. However, is a ban the most effective means of achieving this? That question was also asked by the Council of State, for example. There are also many bona fide employers who, by exploiting these deductions, offer very neat housing and health insurance. We must prevent the people who are working with it from coming out of the rain. According to the new law, such a crooked entrepreneur may still collect that too high rent, but with a direct debit. What is the difference between an authorisation to hold a collection and an authorisation to automatically hold a wage for an employee who is so vulnerable that he simply cannot say no to such requests from an employer? Such a person can still be forced into something we do not consider desirable. If you don't sign that collection, I'll hire someone else. Is this prohibition of retention therefore sufficiently effective?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u22	I'm getting a little confused right now. The first part of Mr Van Weyenberg's question seems to indicate that he would like to make that deduction possible. If I'm wrong, I'd like to hear it from him. After that, however, he says: with a direct debit, the danger of drawing under pressure is still present, so is this the solution? Can I make it clear from Mr Van Weyenberg's remarks that he does not consider such a deduction desirable either?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u23	My concern is that, where there is now abuse of the deduction, this abuse continues, but in the form of a collection, when people who are now in a good and tidy state can no longer make use of it. So my question is whether this is effective. In my view, the collection also has vulnerabilities. The real crook may not be touched by this, while those who want to work with it can no longer use the instrument. That's what I'm afraid of.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u24	Those who want to work with it neatly are there; I have to admit that I might as well deal with a direct debit? That's not such a big difference, is it? That causes a lot of problems all of a sudden? Does Mr Van Weyenberg recognize that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u25	I do get signals from people who are doing it nicely and say that they are at extra risk with a collection, compared to a deduction, which makes them consider stopping offering. That's my concern. I'm asking questions to the Minister. I will be asking in particular about the General Measure of Governance which the law itself now offers an opening. I'm still looking at this point. Once again, I support the objective pursued, but I still have doubts about its effectiveness. We have also received signals from the health insurance companies that this could lead to many more people who now have health insurance through such a retention. That would be an undesirable effect, I think. I know that the cabinet is not pursuing this, but I thought that the signal that we received from that corner today was rather strong. The Minister also recognizes that this is a risk. That is why he has included in the legislative proposal a provision which makes it possible to derogate from the prohibition of retention. In the case of General Measure of Management, the Minister will be able to grant exemptions from the prohibition of retention. At the same time, however, he says that he does not intend to do so. Then why did he include that exception in the law? Under what circumstances would he wish to make use of this General Measure?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u26	Mr Van Weyenberg talks about signals from health insurers. People in the Netherlands immediately think of Menzis and such, and they are already not very well on it. In this case, however, it was not those parties, but one very small, specialised health insurance company offering separate health insurance products for temporary employment agencies with foreign workers. They are cheap, because they are often healthy and not very sick. The deduction is then put in the bag by the employer. Mr Van Weyenberg does not take such signals seriously, I hope? Didn't he read what was in the Volkskrant this morning?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u27	No, but I'm not running away from the risks and the wrongs that there are now with the deductions. My point is that I want to prevent people from being less insured in cases where things are tidy. I am sure Mr Ulenbelt does not want that either, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u28	D66 was the party of its own responsibility. Why can't Dutch people do that and why doesn't he trust a Polish or Bulgarian worker? Why shouldn't the worker himself have access to the question of where he is insured? Why do you have to go through that agency to some weird health insurance guy? Why doesn't he trust those people? Mr Weyenberg always says that we should not make a difference, and now he does so himself. That's not good, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u29	You can just get an authorization for that deduction. You'll be there yourself. By the way, I have to laugh at Mr Ulenbelt today. He's clearly been at a different demonstration than me. At the demonstration in front of me, everyone called him to just adopt this law, but apparently those people hadn't understood that correctly. Now he puts words in my mouth again. I think I am very clear: I want to prevent people from being less insured for care. I do not want this to happen, and I am sure Mr Ulenbelt does not want it to happen. I have a specific question about the General Measure of Governance. According to the text, certain commitments may be excluded from the retention ban. Do I understand correctly that the Minister can then put in such an AMvB that, for example, the care premium for all employers is simply no longer covered by the retention ban? Or is the General Measure of Management an instrument for allowing deductions for certain groups of employers? Or does the legal framework offer both options? If so, what is the Minister's position? I come to the crown jewel of this bill: chain liability. I am indeed convinced that it contributes to a greater sense of responsibility among clients. The pressure at the bottom of the chain forces everyone to comply with the rules and that the client will pay more attention to this. This only raises the next question for me. Shouldn't Rijkswaterstaat, for example, as part of the government, have taken measures much earlier? For two years, the Minister has rightly been calling for attention to be given to this issue. How then is it that a law is needed to get Rijkswaterstaat to apply this in its own tenders? In this context, Mr Kerstens, for example, has frequently asked questions about the A2, the A4 and the A15; in my opinion, Mr Ulenbelt also did so. The law must be observed; everyone we hire must comply with the law. However, that did not work at all. There was no control of whether that happened. No appropriate measures were taken. Has the Minister actually addressed this issue to his colleague for infrastructure and the environment in recent years? What has changed Rijkswaterstaat's procurement policy over the past few years to prevent such phony constructions? What will Rijkswaterstaat do after the adoption of this law? Is it not really sad that we need a law to ensure that the government itself ensures that, if it is the client, the rules are complied with and that false constructions are prevented? Can the Minister guarantee that the Government itself is fully prepared to play that role when this law enters into force on 1 July, which is the Minister's aim? Can he guarantee that the government will do so so neatly that the monitoring in a year's time will not show that there has been liability in public procurement because things have gone wrong in those chains? In the case of chain liability, there is also the possibility of labelling. The Minister must approve it, if I understand correctly. We are getting reports that sectors are not so good at assessing the criteria to be met by the labels in order to obtain approval. Does the Minister recognize that signal? Is he talking to the social partners about this? If not, is he willing to start that conversation? Even without a label, a client can of course not be blamed if he does everything that can reasonably be required of him to ensure that his contractors pay properly. I'm just gonna take a quick look at it. The bill leaves a lot of room for interpretation by the judge on that point. I think this has been done deliberately, but of course it is not the intention that a client who has really done his utmost to do it properly should end up with a double bill. But what does it mean when a judge says that the client has acted low in the chain? Can someone high up in the chain assume that it is also protected? Do I see it right that there is no time limit in the law in which employees have to appeal to their employer on, for example, underpayment? Can this not lead to the situation that, sometimes, many years later, there will be such a case, which also makes it complicated to find out about someone who has worked in all kinds of other chains after that? It seems difficult to work. Has the Minister considered including in the law a maximum period within which a wage claim must be made to an employer? The chain liability is beautiful, but of course we also have to prevent people from going around chain liability via all kinds of e.g.. An e.g. is dissolved, there is a change of ownership, there are bankruptcies and the natural persons are able to circumvent the law. Well, then, of course, rules aren't enough. The Council of State also points that out. The best way to prevent this is, of course, more enforcement. The President of the Economic and Social Council also said in one of the recent opinions: maintaining, maintaining, maintaining is the way to prevent bogus structures. However, we can see that the inspection is becoming less and less controlled. The number of checks on labour market fraud has been halved in four years: 10,000 in 2010, 5,000 in 2014. The CNV recently calculated that the odds of an inspector passing by are once every 30 years. For more than three years, the inspection has not achieved its own objectives in the Social Affairs budget. The Minister has done a good job of rubbing up this bill for two years, but the shine will of course go off if the chance of getting caught is not increased. D66 made a proposal in November to increase the capacity of the inspection. It was 1.5 million and the proposal was well covered. It was swept away by the Minister and voted away by the Labour Party. Less than a month later, at the presentation of the law, the Minister complains to my surprise that it is capacity-building at the labour inspectorate. If you had embraced that amendment, I thought when I was watching that press conference. I will probably come back to this in the second term. It seems to me crucial to increase the chances of getting caught. According to the Minister, we're going to monitor this law more efficiently. But on my question of whether the current capacity will be more controlled, the answer is 'no, because there may be more complex things'. But if there are more complex cases, then the chances of getting caught and the number of inspections where an offence is detected should increase. After all, you're gonna look for more focus. However, the answer to that question was also "no'. But if the number of inspections does not increase, the chances of getting caught do not increase, and the risk of a more targeted search does not increase, it does raise the question of how to ensure that this law is a success. I'll finish my contribution with a compliment. The law contains a comprehensive monitoring and evaluation clause: a monitor every year and an evaluation after three years. I'm happy about that. I wish all the legislative proposals had that. But when did the law pass? Is that if more is discovered or if the percentage of inspections that are encountered is increased? When will the Minister be satisfied? Is he willing to include in that monitor all matters in which the government itself is addressed through chain liability? D66 will wholeheartedly support this law. The law will help to prevent false constructions, but it won't be enough. Only rules are not the whole story; additional enforcement and a bigger chance are needed. We support the law and I hope that the Minister will also support our efforts to achieve more inspectors and thus a greater chance of being caught.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u30	Mr. Chairman. I will not sin on an exegesis of the FNV petition. I have taken stock of this in my group, regardless of the FNV petition, and we are very pleased with this law. I can tell you that. We will also support the proposal. Unfortunately, I wasn't at the demonstration. There was my colleague Jesse Klaver and he put such a big red bag full of petitions in my room. I assume they're all the same and I don't have to read them all. What exactly is and isn't in it, I'm not ready right now. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance will be happy to support this law, because it believes that something is wrong in today's practice on at least three fronts. There is something wrong with all those foreign workers who often make long working hours below the minimum wage without much supervision and who sometimes also have to pay a sky-high rent for a somewhat amateurishly refurbished worker's cottage somewhere in East Groningen. Or they're gonna have to pay a toothpaste supplement somewhere like that. There is no need to explain that the current practice is wrong for these people. However, the current practice is also very wrong for the Dutch employee or the Dutch unemployed. There is a very high level of unemployment in the region of Eastern Groningen. In the Eemshaven, one of the main drivers of employment in that region, are mainly foreign workers. So for the Dutch employee and specifically for the Dutch unemployed, the current practice is quite wrong. The third group affected by the current situation is the Dutch taxpayer. It also contributes to the unemployment benefits of those who have actually been pushed out of regular work by people who are exploited without being able to do anything about it. Take advantage of who? We know that, too. These are not only all kinds of shady temporary employment agencies somewhere in the chain, but they are also very respected employers, for example, I was talking about East Groningen energy companies such as Nuon and Essent, but also our own Rijkswaterstaat. College Van Weyenberg just talked about it. It's pretty bizarre, isn't it? I would like to join with him in saying that the Dutch legislator needs legislation to call public policy practitioners, in this case Rijkswaterstaat, to order. It shouldn't get weirder, you'd almost say. All in all, it is high time for something to happen and it is very good that this will eventually happen with this law approach. We are pleased with that. I told you, we will also support this law. This is without prejudice to the fact that the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance realises that this law does not make up for all the abuses and unfairness in the labour market in one major legislative operation. We are also quite concerned about the fact that after this law a new game of cat-and-mouse can be launched, in which employers will again try to look up the edges of the law. Let me give you an example and relate it to what Mr Ulenbelt said about the stairs from above or from below. In the present law, liability for the chain stops the next client, for example after the bankruptcy of a malicious subcontractor. You're knocking on someone's door. That crooked subcontractor goes bankrupt and is no longer liable, but then the one who comes in the stairwell is no longer liable. I think that's how I read the law. In this way, there is a considerable risk that the main contractor or the client may avoid any liability for previous malicious practices of subcontractors. That is why I have a great deal of sympathy for the thought that Mr Ulenbelt has just explained in detail, namely that you must ensure that there is no conceivable situation in which the main contractor or the client at the top of the stairwell can wriggle himself out under his responsibility and that you may have to seriously consider wiping the stairs from above. That is what Mr Ulenbelt called it, I believe. We are also concerned about how health insurance will be regulated in the future, by what has been agreed on the overnight transfer and so on. The colleagues before me also talked about it. GroenLinks is in favour of freedom of choice and self-direction and welcomes the fact that they will also apply to migrant workers. They can choose their own health insurance. But that must not, of course, lead to the unintended effect that they no longer guarantee. We're all gonna feel that way. The Minister will agree. There is a risk that migrant workers will no longer insure themselves, for example if they know that they have to pay a relatively high care premium but are not aware of the existence of the possibility to apply for care allowance. This is often regulated centrally now. I know all the unwanted effects of that. Soon it will be left to the employee and he will have individual freedom of choice, but this includes knowledge of the way in which the Dutch health insurance system works, including the right to health care allowances. I think there is some cause for concern as to whether we can expect foreign workers to be aware of all these schemes, which are often quite complicated for Dutch workers too. We have the brochure Nieuw in Nederland. Does the Minister have any idea of the extent to which this brochure will reach newcomers? Is the information contained in that brochure adequate? Let me give you one example. For example, it doesn't say, at least I didn't find it, that it's mandatory in the Netherlands to be insured and that you can get a fine if you're not insured. The same applies, for example, to the website of the Zorginstituut Nederland, which also contains a lot of relevant information about everything related to the health insurance. Can the Minister assure me that both the brochure and the website are available in relevant languages? As far as I can tell, that is not the case now. It seems to me that it is really possible to remove the care we have about health insurance. Perhaps something more can be done about that. Just a brief word about repairing the possible undesirable effect for seasonal workers of the transition fee. My colleagues have, of course, also spoken about this. Seasonal workers who now regularly return to an employer run the risk of not having that right or opportunity to return, because their employer is afraid that he will have to pay too high a transition fee. The Minister has found a solution to this by saying that the employer is exempted from paying the transition fee if he is willing to give the employee the guarantee that he can come back. That could be a solution. I am deliberately saying this with some caution, because for my group too, we have not been able to look at it in detail. We do have questions about one of the other measures announced by the Minister in his letter a week ago. I am talking about the measure aimed at making it more attractive to employ people on a permanent basis. In fact, he says: we will abolish the accumulated right to a transition fee, in so far as it relates to temporary contracts, at the time when the employer offers a fixed contract. I have two questions about this. Such an incentive will only work when it comes to a substantial amount of transition fee. I assume the Minister agrees with me on this. That's gonna take a while, so how big is the risk of that stimulus not working at all? If that incentive works, it means you're getting a permanent contract. But, yeah, let's just say homely, how solid is another fixed contract? What is the risk of losing your job again after a year or two with your permanent contract, with the only result that the transition fee would have been lower than that if the minister had not taken this measure? It is a bit complicated, but I think that the Minister understands very well what I mean, and I am sure that is also true of you, Madam President, and of my colleagues. Actually, I was gonna leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u31	That is clear, Mr Van Ojik, thank you very much. Mr Heerma has the floor for his first term, on behalf of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u32	Mr. Chairman. The aim of the Law's approach is to counter unfair competition, bogus constructions and abuse of employees by underpayment. That's a good goal. The bill seems to be broadly about to do what it has to do. There are, of course, reservations and doubts. Nor should we overestimate the functioning of the law. I will come back to these points in a moment, but I would like to start with this week's letter on the letter of amendment concerning the retroactive effect of the transition fee. I would particularly like to talk about the effects this has on seasonal workers. In the general discussion we had a few weeks ago, I congratulated the Minister on the commitment he made at the time to tackle the unintended and undesirable effect that this creates. In the meantime, the letter is there. I must say that I am sorry that employers and employees have not managed to get out of it themselves. That meeting just collapsed. The Minister had announced that he would make a salomon judgment if necessary. He's also dropped this salomon judgment. I would like to congratulate him on that once again. Trade unions and also LTO have critically responded to the legal solution. Given the situation that has arisen and given the unwanted and unintended effect, the answer that lies there is not wrong. The problems of retroactivity can be overcome. The Minister wrote in his letter that it was an unintentional and undesirable effect. The second reason he mentioned was that he explicitly opts for the preservation of jobs rather than obtaining a transition fee. I think this is a fair balance. Following on from Mr Van Weyenberg, I would also like to ask the question about the concern that this effect will still occur. I found LTO's letter very critical, given the considerable limitation of retroactive effect. LTO predicts that the dreaded revolving door of seasonal workers will emerge. However, the Minister states that he is taking this measure to counter that. Does the Minister share the view that this will happen? Given the great restriction of retroactive force, it would not have to happen anymore. Is the Minister prepared to admit to the Chamber that he will keep his finger on the wrist in the next few months to see if that rotating door with seasonal workers is going to happen? I also ask him this question in relation to his motivation to opt for job retention over a transition fee. I'm going back to the Fake Constructions Act and start with the most important part, the chain liability. The design of chain liability has had a lot of groundwork in the preliminary draft of this law. There was still some discussion within the coalition and beyond with social partners. Much has been done, and at a late stage the necessary changes have been made. It can be said that the most important positive effect is that clients will be more aware of the situation and will be given a greater responsibility to think about answering the question of whether wages due in the chain are also paid in a correct way. This raises the question of whether this can be done for the price they themselves pay. Chain liability can have a cleansing effect. This is also confirmed by the fact that not only employees, but also several small employers, small SME contractors indicate that the cleansing effect will come and that it will lead to fairer prices in the chain. I do believe in that effect. I also believe that this cleansing effect can be there. The question that lingers is whether this is also a solution for the real evildoers. Previous speakers have also mentioned this. In my opinion, that's a small minority. I think that small minority is already thinking about tomorrow's bogus constructions. Those constructions are already in the proverbial scaffolding today. Does the Minister think that I am too pessimistic in this assessment of the small minority of real evildoers? As a result of this law, does the Minister see all kinds of new phony constructions emerging? Does he see an increase in working withzzp'ers and of all kinds of foreign e.g. in the chain with bankruptcies in different countries making it difficult to scale up? I'd like to get a response from the Minister. A related question is whether it is possible to deal with the real evil ones with a law like this. If we seek to tighten up the law, new loopholes will always be found by the real evil ones. The vast majority of employers are good people, and for them it will become stuck in bureaucracy. That would be a shame. Then the law does not lead to less false constructions, but to other false constructions and to more bureaucracy. Apart from the fact that, in the written reply, the Minister admits that this bill does not provide a solution to all kinds of perceived unfair competition arising from European Posting of Workers rules. They remain outside the scope of this law. Following Mr Van Weyenberg's example, I have supported his amendment earlier, and I would like to make a plea for inspection capacity. This inspection capacity and hard work can lead to the malicious being dealt with. Then you have a real solution, instead of those loopholes that can always slip through again and again. Increasing the chance of getting caught and punishing is really going to increase the cleansing effect of chain liability. I would therefore ask the Minister once again that suggestion has been made in the course of the budgetary procedure too, so that we can look closely at the inspection capacity, to see if this enlargement can take place. In this part of the bill, when I was preparing it, I had to involuntarily recall the Fraud Act. That's what we've been talking about for the past year and a half. It is precisely with that law that you can see what happens as an inconvenience to that small minority, even there, who knowingly deceives things, in a very strict law. You can then see how long we have been discussing this with each other, up to a court ruling, on the substitution of increasing the chances of getting caught by a very strict law that affects all those who want it. I'd like to hear a reaction to that, too. After the chain, I would like to talk about it, which is my last central issue of pay-off. This has already been mentioned by several speakers. I agree with many of the parts of the bill that relate to wages and pay slips. It is precisely this increase in transparency that is the fact that it needs to be clearly written down and that there should not be undeclared expenses on pay slips that help. Then it becomes visible and verifiable. However, the effect of a ban on deductions and set-offs around the minimum wage may be contrary to that objective, namely accountability and visibility. If you can see a deduction on a pay slip for accommodation of €120 per week, you can see that and you know that something is wrong. Then you have a reason to ring the bell. A deduction for accommodation of €50 per week is not unreasonable, especially if it is based on the actual costs incurred. It is precisely because it is visible on that pay slip that it can be verifiable and enforceable. Don't you lose that if it comes down to that? I understand the principle of minimum wage. I also understand that paying the minimum wage in enforcement is easy to check. I also understand what was just said about the fight against forced shopping. At the same time, the question remains whether this really solves the problem, or whether it will be the result of this part, which has become less transparent in practice. The same goes for the messing around with the care policies. The banning of the paycheck has not eliminated the foul play. Its design will at most change. Mr Van Weyenberg just spoke about this. That is why I ask the Minister to respond. I would also like to ask an open question. I've seen the cleansing effect of chain liability. On this part of the bill, I miss the cleansing effect that can be assumed. If there is, I'd like to hear it from the Minister. I also ask him why another step has not been taken: more demands on the front of those deductions and more transparency, visible on the pay slip, and back to a situation where you are going to set limits on the amounts withheld. Again, €50 for accommodation per week is really a different story than €120 per week. It is a matter of good and clearly verifiable, visible on the pay slip for everyone. As far as I am concerned, you can also link this to harder action when it comes to forced, demanded, shopping, forcing an employee to make certain choices. I would also like to address a specific point in this area. Mr Van Weyenberg already referred to temporary workers and health insurance. I hear from local drivers that they're worried too. They fear that problems will move as a result of being less visible and less transparent. Yes, the minimum wage has been paid generously, but in practice there will be more house milkers. Can the Minister rule out the possibility that there will be more such problems? Can he exclude that the solutions put forward here on paper will in practice lead to new problems? Is he willing to fill out the AMvB that's in the law? So far, the Minister has stated in writing that he is unwilling or not intending to do so. If that AMvB is filled in, a conditioned possibility is created for the benevolent to make use of it. Finally, I believe that there was a judgment of the European Court of Justice in February. It says something about whether netting and deductions are allowed at all at European level. I believe that this is relevant to the discussion we are having here. Can the Minister comment on this? What implications could that judgment have for the possibility of filling in the AMvB as I asked?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u33	Mr. Chairman. I do not think it is often that many spokesmen say in the first sentence of their contribution that they support the purpose of the law very much when dealing with a legislative proposal in the Chamber. I can say straight away that my group also supports this objective. When I was preparing this legal process, I had to remind myself of a situation I encountered two and a half years ago. I was at a construction site where homes were renovated. It was Friday afternoon. I walked around with some people; I had a conversation. At some point I saw a number of employees clinging together at what turned out to be an performer. At first I thought they were going over the work for the next week, but the performer quickly pulled a bundle out of his pocket. That bundle turned out to be made up of a number of banknotes. People were paid out on the spot. I was standing at that moment, but figuratively, I kind of fell off my chair when I saw that. I was wondering if those people were actually paid the minimum wage. So I went to the executor, or whatever he was. He referred me to the contractor very quickly. I went to see the contractor. He said, yes, you must be with the client. This is at the heart of the problem that many workers from the countries of Central and Eastern Europe often have to deal with. I was very frustrated by the fact that I couldn't get the finger on where the problem was right now. I note that, unfortunately, this law is not going to remove the whole problem, but at least it is going to create more awareness and responsibility for all the links in such a chain. There is no longer any way to say: I did not know. One can no longer say: it is not my responsibility. I think that's the point. In this respect, it is therefore very good that chain liability is regulated. As far as we're concerned, an employee is just worth his pay. The question is indeed whether this law will not create another creative opportunity to get out of that chain liability. I realize that with every law we adopt in the Chamber, situations will always arise that can circumvent that law. But a law is a standard, and we put that standard together in the Chamber. However, I fear that certain situations may arise which could lead to this happening. I hope they don't come into being, but I think they will. I can imagine, for example, that after the adoption of the law, a lot ofzzp's will suddenly be employed. I add that they will be boguszzp'ers, because I don't believe that all of these people suddenly come up with their own ideas: I'm getting morezzp'er! What is the Minister's solution to that problem? For example, is he going to check more for that later? If we adopt a law, it must be enforced. Then I'll get to the point of inspection. A number of spokesmen for me have already pointed this out. In fact, we discussed this last year when we discussed the budget. Does the inspection have enough room for manoeuvre? Are there enough inspectors to check compliance with the laws? I think it is crucial to see if this is the case with this law. I'm so worried about that. I'd like to give the Minister some space to take those concerns away. Otherwise, I am saying this as an encouragement to him towards the cabinet, and as far as we are concerned, it would be a good idea for him to look at whether or not he should extend the inspection, if only to give this law a good chance. I come to the issue of set-offs and deductions on the minimum wage. I understand that there is the biggest hiccup in this Chamber by a number of parties. Let me be clear: an employer who is in a good mood does not have to suffer from this. This can be done just fine with an automatic collection to ensure that he gets his rent and if, for example, something is paid collectively for the health care or something like that, that can also be arranged. I see above all the danger that this is an excuse to build up shady structures around the minimum wage again. There are examples, I think, that they are also included in the report, namely that there were deductions on them. I'm not saying that's the case with rent. There are really employers who are good for their staff, but there are also those who can abuse this to create such vague arrangements again. We are absolutely opposed to that. So all the support for that part of the law. Mr Ulenbelt said that this could also be used by employers as a kind of fiscal arrangement. For example, this set-off would be deducted from gross wages rather than net wages. Does the Minister have any indication that this is happening? Mr Heerma has already indicated that there is a debate in Europe about whether or not these adjustments are possible. I believe that this is the new Enforcement Directive on Posting of Workers. If, for example, we were to leave more room for adjustments and deductions to the minimum wage, which is not my wish, then would we find Europe on our way? Can the Minister answer that? If there is more than 50% difference between pay and collective wage, there is a serious underpayment under the law. In that case, the client is also liable. Between 0% and 50% only the main contractor is liable. Isn't that a very big step before the client comes into the picture? I can imagine that I am thinking of the situation that I mentioned at the beginning, namely the workers who were paid in cash, that there is indeed a considerable pressure from the client to pay a little less, if only to establish a very sharp assumption. It could just make the contractor feel cramped. If we say that that is the responsibility of the contractor and not of the contractor, I find it a little too easy. Does the Minister share that opinion? Does he himself think that this step should perhaps be reduced? We can have a whole debate on what percentage it should be, but I think 50% underpayment in relation to the collective wage is a very big step. Will the Minister state why he chose this? I will conclude with one final point, and that concerns the letter of amendment. This has indeed been brought about by our concern about the unintended effect resulting from the retroactive effect of the transition fee for seasonal workers. I believe that the solution that has now been chosen is indeed a proper weighting of the interests of employers and employees. We can therefore state that we support the letter of amendment. However, I would ask the Minister to clarify the process. How, for example, did it go with the social partners? We hear stories about this indirectly, but I would also like to hear the Minister's perception of the way it has gone. I think this is a very workable solution and I thank the Minister for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u34	My interruption concerns the last point. The wording chosen by the Minister in the letter of amendment does not only concern seasonal workers. It's much wider. Is Mrs Schouten, who embraces this, not afraid of unintended effects in education, temporary work, temporary contracts in metal, hospitals, effects she did not want when she voted for the Work and Security Act?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u35	We voted for the Work and Security Act and the SP did not. The joke is that whoever was against that law is now the greatest advocate. In any case, it is a very nice observation that the SP is now also inboard. I think that the Minister has taken good care of the danger that we see that those who have a flex contract and the like will suffer because they lose their jobs. The Minister has put a good weight on this: on the one hand, preventing dismissal, job losses or whatever for financial reasons and, on the other hand, looking at how to apply this properly. I believe that balance has been well taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u36	Mrs Schouten now says that we are in favour of the law. There are good and bad things in a law. This was a good thing. That good thing's being taken out now. That's reason to be even more against that law. It's an argument to my advantage rather than to my disadvantage, I'd say. Is Mrs Schouten not interested in the question of who will be affected by all this outside of seasonal work? Should it not wait until it embraces that letter of amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u37	I believe that Mr Ulenbelt himself had already asked that question, so I will hear the answer on my own. My weighting is that a good balance has been found. I believe that it will ensure that the unintended effects that were in it and that almost all parties in the Chamber except the SP have been tackled. Moreover, the Minister has met the workers more than we initially asked as a Chamber. After all, he reduced it to 2012, I say by heart. That should be taken into account. So I think he's definitely been weighing up. I hope that the good point that Mr Ulenbelt sees in a law will tempt him next time to opt for such a law instead of saying very rabbi: most of it is no good, so we do not support the law. I think that is also the case with this law. In my interruption to Mr Ulenbelt's speech, we were talking about this. Sometimes you have to look at steps forward instead of opting for standstill.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u38	Mr. Chairman. Phantom constructions, dummy constructions... We have sometimes made a joke about it, in the sense that the minister would rise up in the morning with false constructions and the like. But the result lies ahead. The Minister has been busy with it over the past year, also shaking hands with a lot of imams, of course. Those were the Minister's two main issues last year. But the Law approach fakes constructions, abbreviated WAS....................................................................................................................................................... In my view, I have the floor now myself five or six times used by crooked entrepreneurs to exploit workers from particularly Eastern Europe, from Eastern European countries. We have to get rid of exploitation. The PVV agrees. We share that view. But exploitation is facilitated by two things. The first is the fact that our borders are still wide open to those workers concerned in order to be able to work here. Open borders create the conditions for exploitation. Technically speaking, 'open borders' means the expiry of the employment permit. After a country has been a member of the EU for seven years, that obligation goes off and people can come here. The second thing is the real evil of the exploiters themselves, who, through the open borders, saw their chance to fill in the economic principle in their company in a completely amorous way and treat people in a humane manner. For example, then Commissioner Bolkestein of the VVD could not have meant the Services Directive. Call it a slip. The consequences of this are experienced by many Dutch people every day, because they lost their jobs. The many foreigners also experience these consequences through the exploitation we were talking about. The Law's approach to bogus constructions only combats the symptoms of the underlying problem while the real problem is not addressed. Think of it like this for you. The Netherlands has a large hernia, but the patient only gets a paracetam ball while the patient needs to be flat and then operated on. However, these two things are not present. They put a paracetamol in it, but the patient keeps walking. It only makes the back worse. Of course the paracetamol has to be in it, because we don't give anyone pain. In substance, there is not much to be said about this law. A lot of questions have already been asked by colleagues. In view of the government's refusal to do anything at the open borders for workers from Eastern Europe, this law is, of course, necessary. We will most likely support them. However, more needs to be done. The Netherlands has 645,000 people who are officially unemployed. By the way, we heard that number again today. There are people who together fill a million small jobs between one and twelve hours. In addition, we have more than 430,000 people on welfare. Last year about 24,000 people came from Poland to the Netherlands, 70% of whom say they are coming to work here. The number of Romanians that came doubled compared to the year before. The money they make in the Netherlands is in any case spent in part abroad. I use the word'movement' on purpose, because in Eastern Europe, of course, it is well known that the benefit jars can be neatly drained here. Then we also have the problem of crime: ATM fraud, Bulgarian fraud. Let's not talk about that. The Netherlands is still being robbed. Part of that money goes abroad, so in economic terms we also suffer from this situation. For this reason, I repeat what we, the PVV, have been saying for many years that the employment permit is being re-established. The boundaries just have to be closed. The ordinary Dutchman can no longer see a cabinet donating 18 billion to the Greeks with one stroke of pens, that continues to facilitate Islamic mass immigration, that allows Eastern Europeans to take over the jobs and that makes the Netherlands more unsafe, comes with an aspirin against that hernia.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u39	For a moment, I thought this was a special moment. I heard Mr De Graaf say that there is nothing to be said about this law. That's a whole new sound, isn't it? But luckily, the same tirade that we usually hear came. I have a very simple question. Mr De Graaf wants the borders close in Europe. Do more Dutch people now work in other European countries or more people from other European countries in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u40	I do not think this is a question of any importance. I don't care. I'm telling you, I don't know the numbers exactly, but I don't care at all. I am concerned that Dutch people in the Netherlands are losing their jobs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u41	Then Mr De Graaf will be responsible for all those Dutch people in other countries losing their jobs. I can tell him that there are more Dutch people working in other European countries than the other way around. Mr De Graaf seems to want to close the borders. All these people would lose their jobs. That does not seem to me to be the solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u42	The latter is a bullshit conclusion. If we delete the employment permit, of course all the other countries do not have to do so. All the other countries have to know that for themselves. We're in charge of the Netherlands. This is very simple. Mr Van Weyenberg really draws a kindergarten conclusion. It's really elementary school logic. But he can do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u43	I thank Mr De Graaf for the compliment. He didn't have a substantive answer. We got the usual tirades. I always see that as a confirmation. I think it's really weird. Mr De Graaf must be consistent. When he says that the borders should be closed, he must also say that Dutch people should no longer work in other countries. He knows damn well. Then let him be honest.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u44	I don't have to say anything. There is also a Marxist component in D66. She thinks we should say things. Here comes the true nature of Mr Van Weyenberg. He says, "You have to say things." No, I decide what I say. It's as simple as that. That's how it works in a parliament, and that's how it works with freedom of expression. We decide what we say. We are talking about our own words and so we are simply sticking to Mr Van Weyenberg's kindergarten conclusion. Poland, who have come here, see that the standard of living in the Netherlands is higher than in Silesia. They won't leave if they lose their jobs here. Some are, but most are not, because the benefits are better than in Poland. We will say yes to this law out of humanity, as I said, but we say no to this cabinet's refusal to close the borders and finally to stand up for Dutch people instead of foreigners. I'll leave it at that for the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u45	Madam President. When an amendment by Bishop was first tabled on this bill and then followed an amendment by Dijkgraaf, of course, the tension increased as to who would represent the SGP in tonight's debate. Well, as you can see, it's neither. That's not because it's become chefsache, as I hear the minister suggest. The appearance may also have been awakened that there are two dogs fighting for one leg and that the third one went hard with it. It is less poetic and more prosaic that this debate should take place at a time when neither Mr Dijkgraaf nor my colleague Mr Bishop can speak. In the evening shift that I myself perform, I have been given the privilege to contribute to this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u46	I was listening with admiration, but there is an interruption by Mrs Schouten.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u47	I have a point of order. I have very fundamental questions with regard to the Bishop amendment and the Dijkgraaf amendment. Can the gentlemen also answer those fundamental questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u48	It will have to be seen whether these can be answered to satisfaction, but it may also be that Mrs Schouten considers the answers to her concerns by none of the three members of the SGP Group to be satisfactory. Let's just wait and see.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u49	I can therefore assume that this spokesperson, Mr Van der Staaij, knows exactly what has been going on in the minds of Mr Bishop and Mr Dijkgraaf, so that he can give an excellent answer to those questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u50	I think that's a good assumption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u51	Then proceed, Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u52	To start with Mrs Schouten, I do not know if they have heard it, but she has intertwined a beautiful Bible text in her speech, albeit in a somewhat modern translation, namely: the worker is worthy of his wages. Mrs Schouten said that the employee is worth his pay, but that is the same thing. I've been looking into where that actually stands. This is in several places, including Lucas 10 and Timothy 5. It also refers back to the Old Testament, because it is a very old thought. It even states that the wages of the day labourer should not be allowed to stay. It shouldn't last a day. There is no delay in getting that wage as soon as possible. I think this is an important starting point, which also appeals to us in this legislative proposal. The employer is obliged to pay the wage fixed in cash. That's a moral responsibility. It is also an important legal basis. This proposal also ensures that workers are better able to live up to their right to pay. We welcome the fact that the government is concerned about workers who are being left empty-handed by employers who are evading their obligations. Workers are the vulnerable link in the complex economic chains that are now the order of the day. Not in my first sentence, but at the end of my introductory remarks, I can say that the SGP Group shares the objective of this bill to prevent abuse and exploitation. We believe that the legislative proposal contains many good elements, such as the obligation of a clear paycheck and the non-cash payment of the minimum wage, but we still have some concerns and questions. We believe that adequate rights should be given to employers, even small ones, who come to us from time to time and ask us whether, with all our good intentions, we should not burden them with too much bureaucracy or injustices in implementation, for example when they are actually unfairly addressed on certain issues. From this point of view, I have a number of critical questions to ask in this debate and to defend two amendments. Now Mr Ulenbelt's stairs, albeit in a slightly different version. The second step of a staircase comes after the first. If you want to go up, it may be useful to skip a few steps, but this can also easily create chunks. The idea of a staircase is that you walk up step by step. In our view, this also applies to the liability of citizens and entrepreneurs. We think it is a good starting point that the first person responsible should be addressed. This was initially the starting point in the legislative proposal and it was applied consistently, but it was later proposed to depart from it at the very bottom of the chain of employer and client. In addition to the employer, the client is now directly liable. The legislative proposal therefore leaves open the possibility that the employee will pass the first person responsible, namely his employer. Why does the government think that makes sense? In the note on the report, the government gives an example. A scaffolding builder who builds a scaffolding for the construction of a bridge on behalf of his employer will initially claim pay from his employer. The government also states that the employee does well to ensure first that his claim against the employer does not fail. If this is the idea and the starting point, why doesn't the bill simply require the employee to address his employer first? In fact, this idea is also enshrined in the Bishop's amendment: the current regime, whereby joint and several liability applies only in the situation of a temporary employment contract, is retained. The chain liability shall apply only to the specific activities carried out by an employee. Is it true that this could create inequality between workers working for the same employer? Does the one employee, who happens to be working on an assignment resulting from a chain, have more redress options than a colleague who does the same work outside this chain? And what happens to an employee whose wages are no longer paid after he no longer carries out work within a chain? When only clients who have acted blamefully are affected, there is not much to be said about the principle of chain liability. This condition is an immediate problem with this scheme: how do we ensure that clients are not wrongly dealt with? We have the impression that the explanatory statement may create a certain amount of uncertainty for entrepreneurs. The enforcement practice with regard to working conditions in foreign workers does not give us cause for reassurance. We regularly hear examples of employers who have made all kinds of efforts but are held liable and are fined. Can the Minister state what he is doing to prevent these situations from arising from this bill? The government indicates that the principal or senior clients do not have to check all the underlying links; for example, the principal client can make a wage check by a chain clause at the bottom of the chain. But at the same time it is stated that a client may be expected to carry out checks when he receives a signal about underpayment. Can the Minister explain what is actually expected of a client when he receives the signal that there would be six links lower a problem? Is a client only expected to check the lower link next to it or precisely the link that would cause the problem? Can closer links remain passive when the signal enters only at a higher link? The government mentions the label as an important handout to clients. However, the legislative proposal immediately fits two major relativizations of this reference. First of all, the government itself removes the label for the broadcasting sector from the law, because its quality is inadequate. In other sectors there are no labels yet. In addition, clients are expected to examine whether the quality mark is sufficiently reliable. What is the status of a label when users can no longer rely on it to provide sufficient guarantees? How far does the duty of investigation go? The bill has no time limit for the liability of clients. Workers can therefore not bring proceedings against higher links in the chain until years later. Why does the government think it is wise to leave that possibility open indefinitely? The legislative proposal regulates the compulsory non-cash payment of the minimum wage. The SGP considers this to be a good starting point in itself, which makes more effective enforcement possible. However, the SGP calls for sufficient flexibility to allow employers to organise adequate provisions for workers without red tape and additional risks. When employers provide basic necessities such as housing and health insurance on the basis of a power of attorney, the objective of the minimum wage is served. According to the SGP, this should be possible. It is precisely workers who work only for a short time in the Netherlands that are vulnerable in these areas. We have laid this down in the amendment tabled by my colleague, Mr Dijkgraaf (34108, No. 11). He also pointed out that there were opportunities for retirement, for example. Why shouldn't we also be able to arrange this for basic necessities such as care and living quarters?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u53	Mr Van der Staaij spoke about a power of attorney for holding, for example, the rent or health insurance on the salary. Why, however, is it a problem not to settle that directly on the pay slip, but to collect it by direct debit? This is also authorised by the employee and, in terms of administrative burdens, it may be almost easier than that of an employer who has to settle all of them on a pay slip. Why doesn't he choose the route indicated in the bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u54	I still think it has an advantage if you can keep it on pay this way. It is a simpler route than working separately with a direct debit. In addition, a direct debit can be undone. It may in turn create additional uncertainty for the employer whether the money actually comes in. I also see the disadvantage of what this amendment wants to make possible for the rent of housing or for the care premium. Do you still have the opportunity to take action against abuses, which I agree with Mrs Schouten? That is why, as Mrs Schouten undoubtedly saw, there is a paragraph 2 which explicitly states that you can impose conditions on General Measure of Management. We think you have a balanced package with this. On the one hand, you say you shouldn't bother those bona fide employers who do it this way. It can even serve the interests of the employee. Soon you will be at risk of people becoming uninsured for a short period of time or even being the victims of malicious house milkers, to whom they can end up. Those benefits of bona fide arrangements are maintained. At the same time things are going wrong, and there must be limits to that. We offer this possibility with a General Measure of Governance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u55	I am glad that Mr Van der Staaij also recognises that there is a risk, because that is the whole discussion we are having here. How do we minimize that risk the most? Does he agree with me that we wouldn't be better off flying the case from the other side? What's the least of the risks? And how can we be most interested in the employer inside? It is almost becoming a kind of step-on-step discussion by Mr Ulenbelt, but does Mr Van der Staaij agree with me that we should start thinking about that, instead of leaving all the space and perhaps repairing something by AMvB?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u56	Again, I think that this is a balanced option that does both things. We, as a group, come up with this in contact with entrepreneurs. Tree growers in Boskoop say that it is now only made more difficult to arrange with seasonal workers. We also see the risks when it is no longer possible to do so. That is also a background to our proposal. You don't have to wait. I'm not saying you have to wait until we've got all kinds of wrongdoing going on to fill in that AMvB. There is simply a possibility here in the law itself to get on with it immediately. I have heard several things in this debate. Then how is transparency regulated? What about the voluntary nature of it? It could also be maximum rates, which I've heard the CDA about. About how you want to fill it out, you can set up a separate tree, but at least there is a clear legal basis for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u57	In recent years I have been in many places where foreigners are housed. I also asked about the costs. If they are housed in an employer's building and the rent is not withheld, they will not only lose their work but also their living space by the end of the employment contract. If these people signed a lease, that's a security deposit. It's just paid for. This means that rent protection in the Netherlands applies to these people. That is the profit we gain if we take this out of the deduction and bring it under the rent protection of the Netherlands. You can look at the point system and the like. Is there enough money, or is there not enough money? Those are big benefits, aren't they?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u58	Again, the AMvB offers opportunities to set conditions. They may also relate to the protection of rentals which should apply in such a situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u59	Why should we treat a foreign worker differently than a Dutchman when it comes to housing? Why should we treat a foreign worker differently in the area of care than a Dutchman? Is she a different kind of person? Out of humanity, as Mr De Graaff called it, Mr Van der Staaij should say: those people are here and we treat them in the same way as Dutch people, for example in the area of living and care. Why do they have to be so kind of horny at the temp agency?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u60	It's not just about temp agencies. There are also signals that do not relate to a broadcasting situation, but to situations outside. It could also be the case there. This example has led the SGP Group to this amendment. Mr Ulenbelt asked about the difference. Sometimes they are people who are actually looking for accommodation only for the duration of the seasonal work.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u61	I see that Mr Ulenbelt wishes to interrupt for the third and last time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u62	That surprises me, because that brings them into a different relationship with the employer than any other Dutchman. That seems very undesirable to me. There are plenty of opportunities in the Netherlands to rent for two, three or four weeks. Why can't the foreign worker decide for himself?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u63	The question is whether this is as easy in every area as Mr Ulenbelt is proposing. I would point out that this can also entail risks. If the employer deducts his hands from it, a fragile situation can lead to you getting into living conditions that Mr Ulenbelt would also scream away from. Then it's an advantage if you have a proper arrangement for this. I believe that this amendment has been sufficiently discussed. Finally, I would like to make two points about the deadline for implementation. Isn't July a little short of a day before the introduction, given what's left of it? European coordination is needed to address labour market problems at source. We hear that there are ambitions in Europe for the Detachment Directive and the Regulation on the coordination of social security systems, but that there is not much progress to be made in actually adopting the same line. How does the cabinet view this trajectory? What possibilities for acceleration are available here? I would like to leave it at that in the first place.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u64	Mr. Chairman. In spring 2011, under the previous cabinet so, I made my appearance in the Chamber. That was not as a Member of Parliament, because I still had a job then, but as chairman of FNV Bouw, the largest union in the construction sector. I was then here at the invitation of the temporary Committee on Lessons from recent labour migration set up by the Chamber. Mr Ulenbelt may remember, because he was on that committee at the time. I was invited because the construction sector was constantly mentioned in one breath with abuses in the use of colleagues from abroad. That was a pity, because the construction is a very beautiful sector, but it was justified. Construction is one of the sectors that has cut itself in the race to throw responsibilities over the fence, so that no one really has the direction, with all the consequences. Think of major accidents such as the collapse of the so-called B-tower in Rotterdam or the roof of De Grolsch Veste football stadium in Enschede. Think also of the phenomenal amount of at least EUR 7 billion of failure costs per year in construction. That is more than double the total wage bill in the sector. Construction is one of the sectors in which competition takes place almost exclusively on price. Too many employers seem to be unable to show more creativity than even further reducing the price on the back of their largest capital, namely their employees. As a result, matters such as exploitation of foreign colleagues, unfair competition against companies that do comply with the rules and repression of Dutch workers who were put on the side of the same price were, unfortunately, two Poles, three Bulgarians or four Romanians at the same price. That is still the case, by the way. There's more to it than less. In the autumn of 2012, I made my appearance in the Chamber again, but then as a Member of Parliament. During the budget debate on Social Affairs and Employment, over two months later, I tabled my first two motions. In one motion I asked the cabinet to use more labour inspectors to tackle exploitation, unfair competition and repression. In the other motion I called on the cabinet to come up with a more comprehensive plan of action against exploitation, unfair competition and repression. This should not be done by targeting people from Central, Eastern or Southern Europe who leave home and fireplace to earn a decent living for themselves and their families far away, that is, colleagues. They must be very pleased, because protesting, defending your rights, means a single Bucharest, Warsaw or Lisbon. It has to be done by dealing with false constructions. These are wrong employers and shady temporary employment agencies who abuse Europe's free movement of workers in order to make large sums of money over the backs of people who work hard for them. A few months later, what I had argued for as trade union chairman and as a Member of Parliament came together. Social partners and politics found each other in the social agreement concluded in April 2013. There were extra labor inspectors at the time. As an annex to the social agreement, a solid action plan was presented containing almost all the measures I had advocated all these years. This included matters such as the name and name of employers who break the rules, more enforcement measures for inspection, better cooperation between the inspection and the social partners and not least the liability of the main contractor and even the client under conditions, especially if that is the government itself. It has then had quite a few feet in the earth and left and right some sweat drops and so it takes time for us to say: not everyone is waiting for this law; we can guess who doesn't and we also know why we need it but now it's time. Today we are dealing with the Law approach fakes constructions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u65	Mr Kerstens gives a full list of what has been achieved. He also mentioned the additional inspectors. Can I make it clear that he is somewhat sorry about the opposition of the Labour Party when we proposed an additional 1.5 million for this last year? Now the number of inspectors has remained roughly the same, but with our proposal there would really have been additional inspectors.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u66	I was just talking about the motion I tabled and the agreements that were made later in the social agreement. These agreements lead to 35 additional labour inspectors going somewhere in 2017. It concerns 35 additional labour inspectors in relation to the situation we would have had if that agreement had not been made and if my motion had not been tabled. I am therefore pleased with the 35 extra labour inspectors in relation to the situation that would have existed if we had not agreed to do so. I think this law makes it easier for the SZW inspection to deal with abuses. I will say more about it later in my speech. This law makes a number of undesirable situations really illegal so far and gives the labour inspectorate more tools to enforce properly. I assume that in 2017, when the time limit for which these additional labour inspectors were recruited is over, the Minister will consider whether this law will indeed lead to a situation where we are doing more with the same number of labour inspectors, or perhaps we should consider additional inspectors or extend that agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u67	That is a very long answer, but it is not an answer to my question. Mr Kerstens rightly spoke about these additional inspectors, but there was an incredible drop in the books. Thanks to these additional inspectors, all honour goes to Mr Kerstens, the author of that motion, the number has remained the same. That is also apparent from all the figures. We suggested that there should be more inspectors. So there had to be extra money on top of that. Then the Labour Party just voted against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u68	Mr Van Weyenberg first asked me whether I regret that. I forgot to answer that in my very long answer. No, I don't regret that. I have just explained the reason for this, although a little in detail. I will continue my speech. It is understood that it did me good to see my former colleagues and former executives of FNV Bouw, construction workers, here on the Square earlier today. For what have they fought for this law! And what have construction workers but also truck drivers and people who, for example, work in meat processing suffered from the fact that that law was not there before! Today is their day. The free movement of workers is part of the Europe we represent as the Labour Party. We also know that Europe is struggling. It is a Europe with fragile support. It is not our colleagues from other European countries who want to get involved here, but rather crooked employment agencies and bad bosses who benefit from them, who benefit from Europe, and not just about, and who do the same Europe a very bad service at the same time. The Labour Party therefore believes that the free movement of workers is part of that single Europe. Our people use it, too. Every day tens of thousands of Dutch commute back and forth across the German or Belgian borders. In the 1980s many thousands of construction workers went daily, sometimes once a week because they stayed there for a whole week, across the border to our eastern neighbours. But we also believe that we should not close our eyes and that we should not be deaf to the shadows of free movement. Those shadow sides are there, and sometimes they're pitch black. Those shadowy sides do not name and they do not want to tackle them also contribute to the further dismantling of Europe's support base and, moreover, to a further division in our labour market. Just as we do not do so in relation to that division and oppose the race to the bottom in the labour market, the PvdA does not look away from this either. But we are also guarding against putting people on the wrong foot by suggesting, shouting or pretending that there are easy solutions that would make the problems disappear in one stone like snow before the sun. Stepping out of the EU is, for example, one such thing, closing the borders or putting a wall around the Netherlands. It all sounds so tough, but it's folk-faced. Of course, building a wall around the Netherlands would do a lot of work for all those construction workers in the Netherlands, but it is not a solution. Actually, we all know that. We are choosing to look for real solutions, and we are focusing on them, as I said earlier, not on our colleagues. It is precisely because they are our colleagues that we are making a strong effort to get what we get, that is to say equal pay for equal work. That's what we used to call it in the union. This Minister, too, like our King in his Throne speech last September. Equal pay for equal work by focusing on what stands in the way, Brussels rules, for example. Since I was in the Chamber, I have urged the Minister to step up his efforts in Brussels with regard to his predecessors. And he does. Recently, in addition to the so-called Detaching Directive, there is also a Enforcement Directive. That is important, because rules do not really mean anything until they are enforced and respected. But that's not enough. The Detachment Directive itself must also be improved. In this respect too, and thanks to the efforts of this minister, the European noses are more in the same direction and a review, a review, of the Detachment Directive has been announced by Brussels. I urge the Minister to use the Dutch Presidency of the European Union in 2016 to allow Europe to take steps in this regard. I call on him to make decent work and honest work one of the spearheads of the Dutch Presidency next year. I'm pretty sure this wasn't said to deaf ears. On the road to equal pay for equal work there are also crooked employment agencies, wrong employers and the shady constructions they use. They are also dealt with by this law, just as clients who often get rid of their responsibilities and go at the lowest price, knowing that, for example, a collective agreement cannot be respected. The legislative proposal we are discussing tonight contains all measures which, in the PvdA's view, will help to combat exploitation, unfair competition and repression. I therefore welcome the measures that will make it easier to maintain the statutory minimum wage by inspection. I welcome the obligation for employers to make pay slips, as well as expenses payments transparent and transparent, so that the employee is clear about what he gets for, it is easier for trade union and inspection to check whether the law is being complied with and the practice of all kinds of vague fees, which should actually be paid on top of pay rather than instead. I welcome the obligation for employers to simply deposit the wage into a bank account in the future, so that the practice of the uncontrolled hand-out can be ended, sometimes with someone else signing for a salary that the employee himself has never received or signing for an excessive amount or an amount that is subsequently increased on paper. I welcome the fact that there is no longer any limit on the granting of set-offs and deductions, which puts an end to the practice of forcing employers to pay a very high rent for a lousy accommodation, which must also be shared with six people. This is a construction in which workers are also double dependent: if they complain about their wages, they also lose the roof over their heads and complain about their housing, then their jobs are also at risk. When protesting, I have already said that a single Warsaw is particularly threatening. There is an end to the practice that employers pay heavy amounts for all kinds of vague administrative costs, that they agree to collectivity discounts on their people's health insurance but then simply charge them the full price. It may be clear that I am not so impressed by the plea of the broadcasting industry to keep the deductions up, although I can also see that sometimes things are going well. I welcome the heavy fines that are being handed out and the disclosure of inspection data, with the taking-and-shaming of the wrong-doing companies. I am convinced that this will make malicious employers think twice and in many cases will then choose their money and comply with the rules. That's pure profit. If one takes the chance and then runs into the lamp, we all know it and then the publicity does its job.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u69	Mr Kerstens is not impressed by that argument, but the fact that certain deductions are no longer allowed is not a solution to the problem he is describing here, for the fraud that is being done by a part of it. Isn't that a displacement of the way it happens? The fact that it can no longer be held back on the pay slip does not mean that it cannot happen in any other way? That just moves the problem, doesn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u70	I think it does solve the problems that I have just outlined, namely that people end up getting too little hands on them and that they hardly have control over the amounts that have gone from them before they get the salary, on the basis of all kinds of vague deductions. I do not think that allowing these set-offs and deductions any longer solves a number of problems. I don't see it as shifting problems either. Like Mrs Schouten, I believe that if a temporary agency provides decent housing, it should still be possible in the future, but that it is also open to so-called direct debits. In any case, this means that the employee first gets into his hands what he is entitled to and that he will have a slightly less dependent position than he has so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u71	But this is a complete misdemeanour! My question is about the evildoers, but Mr Kerstens' answer is: the gooddoers are not going to take advantage of it. That's not the point. The question is not about the suggestion that people who are doing it properly will not continue to do it properly. The point is that Mr Kerstens says that there are companies that are taking advantage of it. I say that too; that is a small minority. It's about those companies. I asked the Minister whether this regulation would also have a cleansing effect. Mr Kerstens says it and I believe it, but explain it. Explain to me why a malicious company wants to exploit that, which that direct debit wouldn't still do. The difference then is that it is no longer visible. If this €120 for housing is visible on the pay slip, we can all say that the €120 per week for housing is weird. But that has disappeared, so transparency has become less. Then the problem must have moved, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u72	I think I misunderstood Mr Heerma at first. I didn't mean to hang a misdemeanor. Moreover, I do not agree with him that only a minority do not comply with the rules. We all know it from practice. There are too many examples to show that there is often an abuse of the possibility of applying deductions. It often leads to you getting much less salary in your hand than you're entitled to, when you don't know exactly how and what. It is, moreover, one of the measures that tackles malicious workers, not the only measure. So I am pleased to no longer allow unlimited netting and deductions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u73	Mr Heerma's question concerns the question whether it is effective. We agree on the goal. However, this legislative proposal provides for the possibility of a General Measure of Management. It's not gonna be in there for nothing. Apparently, there are situations in which you want to think of something so that deductions can be done in a proper way. That's what you want to support. Is Mr Kerstens in favour of the possibility of this AMvB? Or is he actually saying that I would like to take that whole possibility out of the law? It's gotta be one and two.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u74	It doesn't necessarily have to be one and two. You can also look for a nuanced solution. You have not heard me express my objections, because I do not have them either, against the ability of the law to issue a General Measure of Management which lays down detailed rules on the content. I am opposed to the hell and damnation that the broadcasting industry is now pouring out on us by saying: if these deductions are no longer allowed, it will lead to one great misery in the Netherlands. I am therefore not in favour of allowing franc and quite unlimited such deductions again. It is precisely because we know that it often goes wrong, but sometimes it is also good, and we do not want to create new abuses, that I do not oppose this Minister's reflection on whether a General Measure of Management will possibly bring any relief or solution to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u75	That seems good to me, because it does go well all the time. One concern, for example, is that people are less insured in terms of health insurance. We both don't want that. Could Mr Kerstens then comment on the question in which cases he thinks these deductions are fine? What's he supposed to look like about that AMvB? What deductions should we think of, of which Mr Kerstens also says: in that case I think it is sensible?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u76	For the moment, I'm not thinking of any deduction. At the moment, I am not convinced that the abuses that the broadcasting industry is trying to get between our ears are really going to happen. However, I am not opposed to the Minister going to see, in the coming period, if this law has entered into force, whether there may be abuses or pressure on municipalities. In my opinion, the Minister has already indicated in the written answer to questions that he is going to discuss a possible General Measure of Management with us. If he believes that there are new abuses, I am, of course, prepared to take a serious look at them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u77	Mr Kerstens always talks about the broadcasters. Now I have nothing against temp agencies, but the core of my concern was, of course, about health insurance. Does Mr Kerstens share the fact that health insurance companies in the Netherlands, I am not talking about temporary employment agencies as well as saying: there really is a risk that a group will be less insured? That is something that concerns me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u78	As far as I am concerned, the same applies to the temporary employment agencies which have focused on housing in their lobby over the last few weeks, so to speak. I would first like to see whether the black scenarios outlined are going to occur in practice. I have already indicated that I have nothing against the Minister taking a good look at this in the future. I welcome the improvement in compliance and enforcement of the collective agreements that this law will bring about. That gives these agreements real meaning. The extension of the general binding declaration allows collective agreements on pay to apply in a sector as a whole if there is no collective agreement for a period of time. Then there can be no sudden diving under those salaries. I am pleased to be able to use data provided by the inspection in other investigations. I am also pleased to further improve the exchange of information between inspection and collective bargaining parties. Presumptions of non-compliance with collective agreements after examination by the inspection can be passed on to the collective agreement parties, thus facilitating their work in the enforcement of collective agreements. Moreover, both the text of the legislative proposal and the explanatory memorandum refer to the possibility of providing such information. I believe that there should be no fog at this point. I simply think that the inspection should simply provide that information to collective bargaining parties, unless there are legal objections in an individual case. I'd like to hear the Minister on that. I am pleased with the obligation to actively cooperate in determining the identity of employees, which will be subject to a fine. I am delighted to introduce an extensive chain liability for the payment to an employee. This offers the employee much more opportunities to get what he is entitled to. He is given the opportunity to address not only his own employer, but also all other employers who are between his employer and the final client, up to and including the client himself. My party has been advocating this for years. I am convinced that such chain liability will really improve things. Luckily, I've heard colleagues say that too. Clients and main contractors will have to assume their responsibilities. They can no longer look the other way, shrug their shoulders and wash their hands in innocence. They will really have to get to work and do everything possible to ensure that workers, who are ultimately ordinary for them, are entitled to what they are entitled to, under the motto: together the benefit of the worker's work, therefore jointly responsible for his wage. The explanatory memorandum to the bill shows what should happen at the top of the chain. That's a big deal. The client must take care of a responsible assignment, which creates a bona fide chain, in which law and collective agreement are respected. This means, for example, that he can no longer impose a price for which the work must be done which he can feel on his clogs that the applicable collective agreements cannot be paid for. He will have to include in the contracts to be concluded that the applicable collective agreement is respected, not only by his direct contractual partner, but by all employers under it. He must agree that principal and subcontractors will participate in checks on, for example, pay validation on behalf of collective bargaining parties and that abuses will be dealt with. He will only be allowed to go into business with companies registered in the Trade Register and so on and so on. Still, it's up to the judge to decide if that's all been enough. So leaning back is no longer there. The fact that this will prevent many cases of underpayment is beyond me and my party, as well as the considerable preventive effect of chain liability, an increase in the employees' chances of getting their money if it does go wrong. He will be able to directly address both his own employer and the employer's client jointly and severally. That'll really make a difference. You have twice as much chance of getting your money. If he is not able to do so, he can go up step by step to the places where there is sure money, with the main contractor and the final client. If there is a gross underpayment, the employee can even go directly to the client. Moreover, I do have a question for the Minister. Some colleagues have spoken about the question of when there is gross underpayment. Is the Minister prepared to consider in the assessment of this law that it has already been promised whether that percentage is doing what it should do or whether it might be a different percentage that is more logical and better? I am pleased to note that the Minister with the chain liability in this law goes far beyond Europe's demands. By fully applying that chain liability to foreign companies that are active here, with which he and passerby cut off another false construction, he seeks out the maximum space and so it should be.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u79	Mr Kerstens asked the Minister to check whether the 50-70 clause had worked out properly in due course. I suggested that you make 90% of that, so you can get to the main contractor sooner. That is an improvement in the law that we can now make. We don't have to wait for that. Does Mr Kerstens support my proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u80	No, we don't. Mr Ulenbelt rightly says that I have asked the Minister to look at how this percentage is working out in the review of the law and if he is prepared to reflect on another percentage if necessary. At the moment we agree with the percentage mentioned in the law on gross underpayment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u81	The letter from the adoption federation states that, even if that limit is respected, there remains a very large competitive gap for the bona fide contractors. The affiliated contractors support the law. That is also in the press release, but the letter is much more detailed. That is what they are proposing in concrete terms. Those contractors are playing on that field. They are already making the proposal that I have included in an amendment. Mr Kerstens asked to look into it in the evaluation. Then it seems to me most logical that he is now saying that the SP is perhaps a bit right on this point and that it does not have to wait three years, but can already support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u82	Let us not pretend that you can only go to the client if there is gross underpayment. In that situation you can go directly to the client. I just indicated that the appealing thing about this law is that you can end up with that client anyway, but in steps. Those two possibilities, whether they end up in steps with the client or end up directly with the client in gross underpayment, are sufficient for my party to be satisfied at the moment with the percentage mentioned in the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u83	I have a question at the same time. I also think it is very good that the duped in that chain can end up with the client directly. The sooner the better, I'd say. However, this only applies if the chain remains intact. If that chain is interrupted by, for example, a company in that chain going bankrupt, it is very difficult or even impossible to go through it and go further up that chain on the basis of the current law. Mr Kerstens thinks it is very important, like me, that you should be able to reach that summit. Such a barrier, such a barrier, literally, I would like to remove.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u84	I heard Mr Van Ojik say a few things in his contribution about a bankrupt link in that chain. He said that would lead to the employee always being left empty-handed. I doubt that, and I would like to invite the Minister to take us on board later in the way in which these situations are dealt with or in what those situations mean for the rights of the employee, which I would like to say once again by this legislative proposal are greatly strengthened.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u85	Like Mr Kerstens, I am also interested in the Minister's reply. I conclude from his reply that I verify for a moment that if such a bankruptcy would prove, for example, to be a real obstacle to the doomed to go up in the chain, he, like me, believes that this obstacle should be removed. I understand that from Mr. Kerstens, didn't I?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u86	I think I have expressed myself a little more nuanced than Mr Van Ojik's conclusion. There is, after all, a difference between an obstacle and being unable to move forward in any situation after bankruptcy. I would first like the Minister to give his answer, and then perhaps, together with Mr Van Ojik and other colleagues, to think about what that actually means. I have another focus on chain liability for the minister. A claim to chain liability can be made by an employee, i.e. an employee, and an employer. This can be an ordinary employer or a temporary agency, from here or from abroad. This also gives the bogus self-employed additional opportunities to get their money, because it is actually just an employee. The difficulty, however, is that the distinction between a genuine self-employed person and a person forced into that situation is not always easy to make. That is why I call on the Minister once again, once this bill has been passed, to put his teeth into dealing with this bogus self-employment. I would like to hear from him whether he is prepared to do so and whether he has any further ideas on this. I would also like to ask the Minister whether he would like to examine whether, for example, if minimum rates have been agreed in a collective agreement for self-employed persons without staff, that can legally be relied upon by thezzp'er in question by the chain liability. There is then a rate, a 'wage', which the self-employed can rely on under the collective agreement. If we had had this law before, there would have been no such serious abuses in the construction of the Eemshaven in Groningen, in the construction of the Second Maasvlakte, in the work on the A2, the A4 and the A15, in the transport sector, in the metal, in the poultry sector, in pig slaughterhouses, in the fish processing industry, in mushroom growers, in the Westland, in agriculture and horticulture, in the temporary employment industry, and so on. There would have been a lot less underpayment, and there would have been a lot less unfair competition against employers who do comply with the rules. These are, for example, a large number of small and medium-sized enterprises in the construction sector, which are able to value their employees and which like to work with firm forces, but which see that it is becoming increasingly difficult to compete unfairly. If this law had been passed earlier, the Treasury would have had to provide a lot less benefits, because a lot less Dutch workers would have been unemployed at home in the bank because they had been priced out of the market. It is a great feeling that this law will work, for example, in the forthcoming major renovation of the buildings on and around the Binnenhof or in the renovation work on the damage caused by earthquakes in Groningen, for which the cabinet has recently allocated EUR 50 million. To sum up, the Labour Party congratulates the Minister on this piece of work. Finally, a serious approach to one of the greatest abuses in our labour market is being taken. It is a step which the Labour Party has strongly insisted on. I would therefore like to conclude with the following quote, words that my old union put on his website earlier this week. "The FNV calls on the House of Representatives to agree to the False Constructions Act." As far as the Labour Party is concerned, this has not been said to deaf ears.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u87	In the same circles you also hear that this is only a very small step. Now I have made proposals for a substantial extension of the measures. The petition we received this afternoon, which I have in my hand here, states that it must be arranged in such a way that the client and the main contractor are responsible for complying with the collective agreement. Now Mr Kerstens knows as well as I do that a collective agreement is about more than just about pay. I don't have to tell him what it's all about in a collective agreement. I have made an amendment which allows this to be included in that liability. If we do what the FNV asks, it should mean that Mr Kerstens should at least support this amendment. In that case, Mr Kerstens must support not just looking at wages, but at the fact that the whole collective agreement and its provisions can be appreciated.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u88	In the circles to which Mr Ulenbelt refers, I have not heard anyone say that this is only a very small step. I have heard people there say that it is a very big step. I believe that Mr Ulenbelt heard that this afternoon when he was encouraged to adopt this bill. The trade union movement, which has been calling for this bill for a long time, welcomes this. I'm happy about it, too. However, I do believe that more needs to be done. I called on the Minister to step up in Brussels. I called on him to start working on the approach to bogus self-employment. With this law, in this form, however, like the trade union movement, I am very happy. That the trade union movement is also happy with it, we heard this afternoon at the Square.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u89	Surely it must be incredibly important for a trade unionist that the collective agreement that you have concluded should only be able to go further into the chain of pay and not other terms of employment? The FNV simply asks in this petition to make that possible. 27,000 people sign that petition. The SP then tabled an amendment to make this possible. Mr Kerstens also says that further improvements are possible. I'm offering it to him. They fly him in a manner of speaking like a roast rooster in the mouth. I'd say, Mr. Christmas, bite. Hit it! Or isn't the VVD allowed to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u90	To be honest, I have not yet asked Mr Mulder. However, I can tell Mr Ulenbelt that this is not so relevant to my group either. We stand for a good Law approach fake constructions. We've been very hard on that. I am extremely pleased that the VVD is going to vote for this law as well. We have not yet heard that from Mr Mulder, but I have such a feeling that his group will vote for the law. She gets that from the PvdA, when it comes to the question of who gets what. I welcome the bill that is now before us. Of course, if Mr Ulenbelt and I had invented the law together, there might have been some other things in it. However, Mr Ulenbelt's party and my party do not have 76 seats in this house. I would rather have a law that would allow a very big step forward, rather than a law because, like perhaps Mr Ulenbelt's party, I would vote against that major improvement. This has the effect that nothing changes, clients and main contractors laugh in their fist and invite Mr Ulenbelt to tea to thank him for voting against a law that they do not want either.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u91	I see Mr Ulenbelt standing at the interrupting microphone for the third time. In fact, we are interrupting in two, but I can imagine that the last words of Mr Kerstens call again for a response from Mr Ulenbelt.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u92	But it must hurt a trade unionist to be liable only for wages and not for all the other things in the collective agreement? It is a collective agreement for which many people have done their best. That hurts John, my friend!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u93	President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group).
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u94	Friend Paul, comrade, this law offers more opportunities for collective bargaining parties to comply with the collective agreement. That's what I just said. The inspection is about to pass on to the collective bargaining parties information which it encounters and which give suspicions or sometimes hard evidence of non-compliance with the collective agreement. The inspection will work even more closely with these collective bargaining parties. Chain liability relates to wages. All these other matters will be much easier to deal with thanks to this law for collective bargaining parties and for trade unions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u95	I would like to comment on something that Mr Kerstens said. He is pleased with this law, which has become clear to me. Me too. But he said in a subtlety that if this law had been there before, a lot of people wouldn't have been home. Now I like clear goals with a law and that you state in advance when you are satisfied. How many additional jobs does Mr Kerstens expect to be created by this law? He was very clear about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u96	Of course, that raises a counter-question, because Mr Van Weyenberg is (almost) as happy as the Labour Party with this law. How many additional jobs does Mr Van Weyenberg expect from this? Just as that will be the case for him, it is difficult for me to report it. That is because this is about dealing with bogus structures, which are, of course, a bit tricky to tarnish and where it is difficult to determine exactly how many jobs are involved. I think Mr Van Weyenberg agrees with me that if we ensure that the rules are respected more often, it will have an effect on wages paid. This leads to a less big difference between a Polish construction worker and a Dutch construction worker, a less big difference between a Hungarian truck driver and a Dutch truck driver. I cannot put precise figures on this, but I firmly believe that this law will not only address underpayment and combat unfair competition, but also reduce displacement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u97	I'm a lot more careful than Mr. Kerstens. I have said that we must also maintain it. I shall come back to that, and I am counting on the support of the Labour Party when we table motions on this matter. However, my group has always said that we are primarily going to tackle and prevent underpayment and exploitation. Does that lead to extra jobs? I hope so, but I don't know. However, Mr Kerstens was very clear. He said a lot of people wouldn't have been home with this law. I also think that Mr Kerstens has an expensive duty to indicate how many jobs are involved. 100, 1,000, 10,000 or more? When will Mr Kerstens be satisfied?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u98	Mr Kerstens is satisfied with every Dutch truck driver, with every Dutch construction worker who will be given a fairer chance on the labour market, because the large wage gap that often leads to him not being chosen, but for other people, is no longer there. Let us not forget that, of course, these structures have only one objective: to make labour as cheap as possible, especially in sectors where prices alone are competitive. I am therefore pleased with every construction worker and truck driver I meet and who says: this law gives me a fairer chance on the labour market.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u99	Are you at the end of your speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u100	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u101	A very brief question, Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u102	I am also pleased with any phony construction that we can counter and any person that is not exploited. However, I think that if you use such big words, you should be more precise. I hope that Mr Kerstens is right, but I also hope that he realises that it will be difficult without additional inspectors.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u103	I didn't hear a question. Mr Heerma also wishes to place an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u104	Mr Kerstens said that he does not think it is a small minority of employers. In fact, he has given rise to the suggestion that there are a lot of employers who use these kinds of structures and who avoid the rules. In doing so, he suggested that a majority of employers deliberately and knowingly fraud. Now I have side by side with Mr Kerstens to restore that other law, the Fraud Act, whereby the VVD uses similar rhetoric, namely that the majority of people who receive benefit would knowingly and knowingly fraud. That's what's moving now. Shouldn't Mr Kerstens then be reflective towards employers of the same care that he has taken in relation to people with benefits under the Fraud Act?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u105	I think I do, too. When I just responded to Mr Heerma, that was about his remark that it is only in a very small number of cases that deductions and adjustments are wrong. That is what I was referring to. I think it goes wrong more often than in a few or a handful of cases. With regard to employers in the Netherlands, I am delighted that a large part of the employers, a majority, comply with the rules. I think that the majority of employers in particular are also very pleased with this law. It prevents them from being unfairly competitive by that club of employers that doesn't follow the rules so closely.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u106	So Mr Kerstens says the following. Just as with the Fraud Act, you should be careful not to make a law that affects the large group for a small minority who is really malicious. Here too, you have to deal with a small minority of evildoers. So you have to be alert not to hit the vast majority of willing employers. It is also a small minority of evildoers in this case.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u107	Of course, it is not my intention to touch benevolent employers with this law, other than that we do with this law what they themselves are asking for. I just quoted the Dutch Federation of Contractors and small and medium-sized enterprises in construction. They, and I with them, are convinced that this law will help them to compete, not only on price, but also on innovative capacity, on quality of people and so on. If we allow the minority who do not follow the rules to do so, the majority will suffer immensely. Yes, it is. This law is the beauty of it and perhaps PvdA and VVD have found each other for this reason.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u108	Mr. Chairman. Much has already been said about this law. First of all, I would like, like a number of other speakers, to dwell on the transition fee and the retroactive force that has been repaired. Two weeks ago, we talked about this. As far as the VVD is concerned, the Minister has resolved this very neatly. Thank you for that and also compliments. This is good for entrepreneurs and seasonal workers. Like Mr Schouten, the VVD supports the aim of this law: to combat exploitation by underpayment. At the same time, the VVD considers it important for entrepreneurs and companies to be able to enforce this law. An important element of this law is chain liability. We are pleased that a so-called temporary chain has been chosen. If you are dealing instead with joint and several liability, whereby an underpaid employee can directly address any link, the employee will go directly to the most bona fide link, the link with the most money. Then good behavior is actually punished. We therefore welcome the choice of a temporary chain. We are also pleased that the explanatory statement clearly states the measures and precautions that companies and entrepreneurs can take to ensure that they can successfully rely on non-disputability when faced with underpayment in the chain. This gives entrepreneurs security and support, and that is what they need. If an entrepreneur doesn't have it and feels fear, he will either not take it or take a lot of precautions. He has to attract a lot of extra people, just for control and not for enterprise. We are pleased that this is contained in the law and the explanatory statement. That's a hold-on. It is said that if you work with a certified contractor or a company with a quality mark, this helps in non-disputability. This also applies when agreements are made in contracts on payment and compliance with working conditions. If something is going on, adequate action must be taken. Business must be done with companies registered in the trade register. As far as the VVD is concerned, the law is also intended to involve the court with the explanatory statement in its judgment. The VVD is pleased that VNO-NCW, the employers' association, supports this law. This gives her the feeling that it is feasible for entrepreneurs and businesses. In its opinion, the Council of State states that the nature and extent of the problem to be solved by this law are not clear. Then the question is how, in some time's time, if this law is evaluated, we can assess whether the law is effective. What criteria does the Minister intend to apply when assessing the law? I have two points on the implementation of the law. You may not make deductions on the minimum wage, but what do you do, for example, in the case of payroll? An employee may be in debt and the court bailiff may require an employer to carry out that payroll and to make a deduction from wages. How does that relate to this law? The law also talks about paying the net legal minimum wage, but we do not know that concept. We do know the statutory gross minimum wage. How exactly do you do that? What do you apply the tax discount if someone has two jobs? How can you control that? It would be a shame if these kinds of problems appeared in the implementation. I would like clarification from the Minister. I come to speak about the possible problem of deductions from housing and the payment of the health insurance premium. In fact, all my fellow Members have spoken about this. We're getting these signals from companies, too. They say: if we can no longer contain them, we run the risk of driving workers into the hands of house milkers. In 2002 I started my career as a popular representative in the city council of The Hague. I used to be a spokesperson there, living in the house, slinging houses. I've seen something there. I went with District Agent Janz in Transvaal. There I came into a house in which ten Poles were housed. Neighbors had trouble with that. I stood at the door of a lady who had a big pack of tranquilizers, because she couldn't sleep because of the nuisance. If you don't manage the housing properly, it will have enormous effects on the quality of life in large cities. That, Mr Ulenbelt, is not a dramatic picture. That's just the way you look in those neighborhoods. Does the Minister recognize this problem? Does he want to do something about that? If so, what then and when? We're running out of time. As has already been said by colleagues, the Minister has the possibility of an AMvB.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u109	I know these situations. I've seen more than you have. I haven't only been to The Hague, I've been to the whole country. The system of deductions did not make it better there. You're not gonna fix that. If the people themselves had their wages at their disposal, they might not have lived there but quite elsewhere. You're suing housing cases. You're right. I didn't do anything else here in the Lower House. But these things don't have anything to do with deductions, do they? Refunds do not occur, so you cannot argue in favour of retaining deductions from housing costs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u110	Just so you know, I'm not arguing for that. I note, however, that when employers provide good housing, vulnerable people do not come into the hands of house milkers with all the degrading scenes that go with them. If Mr Ulenbelt has seen that, he should also plead for a solution. Otherwise, you're an SP fact-resistant.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u111	Facts-resistant?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u112	Yes. That you see the reality, that you don't care and that you don't want to do anything about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u113	I very much blame Mr Mulder for this. I have proposed here in the House of Representatives to examine all problems relating to labour migration, such as housing, wages and exploitation. That's what the Chamber did. There's been a debate about it. There's been results. These have led to initiatives on housing. I blame you, Mr Mulder, for blaming me as if I were factually resistant to housing problems. I ask you very politely and kindly to take that back.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u114	No, on the contrary. We are warned that this can happen. I'd say a warned man counts for two. You should take that to heart.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u115	Finally, Mr Ulenbelt.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u116	Mr Mulder should not think that because he saw a situation in The Hague, he has the wisdom to judge it. There have been extensive debates in the Chamber. Again, I took the initiative to put housing problems here on the agenda. Measures have been taken. He can't blame me for being blind to those situations.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u117	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u118	Or he wants to acknowledge that I'm not blind to these housing situations.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u119	Let me admit that, as long as he is not blind to the solution. I also did my best to get that on the agenda here. I brought the then Minister of Housing, Mr Kamp, to the neighbourhood and said: this is what is happening in The Hague, my dear Minister, and do something about it. This problem is gradually reduced, also by the efforts of Alderman Norder in The Hague. Fortunately, Mr Ulenbelt is not blind to the problems, if he is not blind to the solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u120	Mr Mulder continued his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u121	My second point is the care premium.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u122	I do not see at all, because I see an interruption by Mr Heerma.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u123	I am a little envious of Mr Ulenbelt, who got such a nice treat to his head, so I'm also going to take a shot...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u124	You're applying.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u125	Maybe there's something more beautiful than "fact-resistant." Last weekend, Mr Mulder, through NU.nl, said quite harsh words about this problem and said that people will fall prey to house milkers and that they will wander the streets. That's the prophecy he did, if this happens this way. He is now asking a number of questions to the Minister. Mr Van Weyenberg and I have asked similar questions. The SGP has gone even further and has tabled an amendment. If Mr Mulder speaks such big words, does he say that it is unacceptable for the VVD if something is not going to happen here?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u126	I think we're pulling on the same side of the rope and we're trying to prevent it. We all know that the word "unacceptable" can have extraordinary political consequences. I trust that we will hear the Minister's answer; how he looks at it. We'll wait and see. I see the same with my colleague from the Labour Party. He says it less, but there too you see attention to that problem. If we all pay attention to that problem, I think the Minister will come up with answers that will satisfy us.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u127	I understand that Mr Mulder is not going to say the word 'unacceptable' here, so I will not ask you again, but let me rephrase it. Mr Mulder is so clear about the negative consequences that this is going to have, his experiences around those cottage milkers and his prediction that this is going to happen again. So he's assuming that this minister through that AMvB is actually going to do something to prevent that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u128	I asked the Minister whether he recognized that problem and whether he was prepared to do something about it. We're gonna listen to those answers. The same goes for the care.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u129	Mr Ulenbelt may be a factualist, but it seems that Mr Mulder is inconsistent. That can't be true, can it? He put on very big pants in the media, because hell and damnation threatened, but Mr Mulder was going to solve that for the people. I have asked questions, but Mr Mulder has set exclamation points. And then you really can't tell me that you're gonna listen to the minister quietly. Come on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u130	We'll see and hear what happens.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u131	I see that Mr Van Weyenberg has something to say in the second instance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u132	Mr Mulder had a whole story about what he had seen. He definitely knew what was gonna happen. That had to be solved. And now he says, "I'm waiting for the minister." Mr Mulder was chosen to achieve his views and ideas in this Chamber and not just to say that he is sure that it is going wrong and to ask the Minister whether he thinks so and to see it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u133	I am not going to be chased by Mr Van Weyenberg and I am waiting quietly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u134	You will now proceed with your speech, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u135	Then I'll come to the health premium. There too it is warned: beware, if no deductions can happen, you run the risk of uninsured and unpayers. That is, of course, a big problem. As the spokesman for concern, I have held a number of debates on the issue of non-payers and uninsured persons. They affect the solidarity of the system. It's also not good for people to be uninsured. If you get a lot of uninsured people, the SP gets very angry again and goes to high tone calling the Minister of VWS to account. I would therefore say, Mr. Ulenbelt, try to prevent that. I have the same question to the Minister...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u136	Mr Van Weyenberg wishes to interrupt you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u137	I tried to provoke Mr Ulenbelt.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u138	Perhaps it would be wise to do this less; that would encourage progress.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u139	But he did it a little bit too!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u140	I think this is a very obvious trick. Mr. Mulder is now stuck in a web. He is not happy with that and tries to distract attention with all kinds of things. I'm just gonna ask him the same question about health insurance: what's he gonna propose? Then we can just skip that three-minute rerun of the cottage milkers. What does he want?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u141	I'm going to ask the Minister the same question as about the cottage milkers: does he think that's recognizable and does he want to do something about it? We do not want the Minister here to say that there are more contributors, and the rest of the Chamber again says that he must take action.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u142	I just want to know how to weigh Mr Mulder's articles from now on. Maybe he should insist that he doesn't know it all yet and that he will see it in the debate. I know from now on that I simply do not have to read an article by Mr Mulder anymore. These are big words speaking in the press, but here gently spiders behind the cathedral.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u143	I didn't hear a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u144	Mr Mulder was very strong in the press. I hear repeatedly that we should listen carefully to the Minister. We all do. This came up to me: glass, puddle and the laundry just remained the laundry. Is that right? What will Mr Mulder do with it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u145	I'm taking this problem easy. At least, not quiet, but really with conviction. After all, they are an attack on solidarity. And keep an eye on the cottage milkers. I hear more colleagues say that, almost all of them. I'm going to quietly listen to the Minister's answer. Mr President, I have finished my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u146	My question is absolutely not as annoying as some of my colleagues' questions. He is talking about house milkers and the fear that Mr Mulder may also have a little bit, namely that they will take a big hit if the deductions are going to be different than they have been so far. Is Mr Mulder not extremely proud of his Minister, Mr Blok, who was passed a solid law last year, which really means that these cottage milkers are being treated firmly? Doesn't he agree with me that just that fact already reduces the chance of wrongdoing, so thanks to his minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u147	Thank you for the compliments to Minister Blok. I'd like to return them to Alderman Norder of the Labour Party, here in The Hague. But it's exactly what Mr. Kerstens says. I started this in 2002, in the city council. I really wasn't the only one, other parties did. We've been 13 years. It takes you so long to catch this kind of abuse. That is why you should also be very careful with measures that might repress this, precisely because you, as a politician, have to push and pull endlessly to tackle this problem, to raise money, and to make plans and regulations. Now it seems to be working 13 years later. You shouldn't want to run the risk of that going away. That's my point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u148	I understand from the Minister that he needs about 20 minutes of preparation for his first term on behalf of the government. I note the Court's agreement to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u149	Mr. Chairman. In every profession you have good days and less good days. However, the discussion of this bill, the Law on Fake Constructions, is a really good time, when I feel grateful to be Minister for Social Affairs and Employment. This law contributes to a decent labour market in the Netherlands, where workers receive the wages they earn, and the law offers them the opportunity to still get that earned pay if they have been paid too low. With this bill, we are tackling unfair competition between companies. We are tackling competition on wages below the level agreed in the Netherlands. We are also tackling unfair competition between workers, where one employee is set up against another. With this bill we make it easier for the neat companies to do business again and the Dutch job seekers have a chance again. This bill also contributes to maintaining the social system built up in the Netherlands. The law contains measures to ensure that a number of false constructions are no longer possible. Apparent constructions are constructions that are not prohibited to date, but are undesirable. For example, there may be avoidance of taxation, which can give an advantage over other entrepreneurs. The law facilitates the enforcement of the Minimum and Minimum Holiday Benefits Act (WML) and of the Collective Labour Agreement. Apparent structures are structures that are deliberately kept out of the sight of enforcers. As a result, it is difficult to have an exact picture of the extent of the problem of dummy structures in a general sense. This is inherent in the problem and therefore similar to other forms of unwanted social behaviour. The exact size of the number of thefts in our country is unknown and the exact size of the number of false constructions is also unknown. However, the fact that it is a problem is obvious to this cabinet. The sectors which control the inspection and for which the social partners pursue an active collective enforcement policy show a large number of infringements. For the broadcasting sector we have since 2012 the Meldpunt Malafide Temporary Agencies. Within two years, 1,500 reports came in, mainly about underpayment. The broadcasting sector itself has a strong collective enforcement body. This has been established for over EUR 37 million of wages components wrongly paid to temporary workers. In addition, compensation of more than 21 million has been calculated. In 2012 and 2013, the Inspection SZW and the Tax Administration, UWV and the SNCU added 105 million in corrective measures such as fines, post-charges, damages and post-payments imposed on offenders in the temporary agency industry. That's over 50 million a year. We do not know how much underpayment has been left out of the picture. However, we know that we are not taking everything now. In addition, there are several incidents with problems with working conditions, which give rise to measures against the evasion of the minimum wage and collective wage. For example, the ESC opinion on labour migration examined the situation at the Eemshaven. Mr Van Ojik mentioned this and I and many of you have been there. That's where wrongdoings have been found among subcontractors. A Turkish and a Polish company were actually convicted of underpayment of large, significant groups of workers there. There is also a compliment for the perseverance of the workers, but also for the trade unions, who have gone on. This bill is an elaboration of the Action Plan to combat bogus structures that I presented to the Chamber in April 2013 as part of the social agreement. The action plan is also a response to the Kerstens/Azmani motion (33400-XV, no. 40) and on a call from the social partners for such a plan. The social partners have played their part. They mentioned a large number of measures, which we then included in the action plan and now in the legislative proposal. Think of combating fraud with cash payments. Think of chain liability, which I will of course come back to. Think of the improved cooperation and the exchange of information between the public and private enforcers. In doing so, this bill, in addition to its own meaning, is also an important part of the social agreement. The Action Plan has not only led to this bill. More is being done to tackle bogus structures. There is a greater commitment to enforcement. Additional inspectors have been appointed to the inspection. More international cooperation is sought with other Member States to counter these kinds of structures. The cooperation between private and public enforcers has improved. Recently, I sent the third progress report approach to bogus constructions to the Chamber. I have dealt in detail with all the activities we are doing in addition to legislation. I would like to thank the Chamber for its written contribution and for its first-term oral contribution. If I am optimistic, as a minister, you should always be very careful. That is a good thing. I understand that there are still questions and that is also a good thing, because it is indeed an important legislative proposal. You can have a big debate about how important it is. No, not all false constructions are in the past. Yeah, there'll always be bad guys looking for new opportunities. No, we are not done yet: we need to go into Europe to talk about the minimum wage, and we need to tackle false self-employment. Yes, it is a very important law. I am also very grateful to the people who signed it. I'm glad they called for the law to be passed. I am grateful to the Federation of Contractors and the trade unions. I know I haven't been a minister very long, but I haven't seen many demonstrations before a law. Today there was such a demonstration. I am incredibly proud that we have come to this point and that I am now allowed to debate the substance of the matter with the Chamber. I shall begin with the questions that have been asked about the statutory minimum wage. Every employee in the Netherlands should earn at least the statutory minimum wage. We have arranged this in the Law minimum wage and minimum holiday allowance. The purpose of that law is to set a standard for minimum remuneration of employees. That statutory minimum wage is a socially accepted minimum consideration for the work done. That is where the meaning of legislation begins: setting a standard. I shall come back to that later on in chain liability. We set a standard and that has meaning. The law that made child labour impossible was not intended to provoke a maximum number of lawsuits for violating the ban on child labour, but to set a standard. Now you look back on it and you say: yes, that makes sense. The same applies to the minimum wage. This is a logical, socially accepted standard in the Netherlands. Thus will it, so is my expectation, also go with the Law approach fakes constructions. You set a standard. There will always be people who break that standard, but it is important. Over the years, the minimum wage law has become more and more an instrument, a tool to counter unfair competition on wages. However, I have had to inform the Court of Justice on a number of occasions over the past year, as we have been flagged back by the court that the WML no longer actually meets the requirements of the current labour market and industrial relations. So we're gonna have to review the minimum wage law. However, in some areas we do not have to wait for this review to improve the situation. The sooner we can tackle abuses and the sooner we make sure that evasion of the WML is addressed, the better it is. That is why there are already changes to the WML in the legislative proposal to improve compliance and enforcement. In order to ensure that it is clear whether an employee receives at least the minimum wage, the pay slip should be transparent. The employee can then check himself whether he has received the right wage, what has been deducted from his salary and what expenses he has received. There should therefore no longer be any unclear expenses and allowances with or deductions from the minimum wage on the pay slip. Everything must be clearly specified. With such a transparent pay slip, which states how much pay has been paid, the Inspection SZW can more effectively check whether the employer pays at least the statutory minimum wage. It's that prosaic sometimes. If our inspection cannot simply determine whether the statutory minimum wage is paid, we are lagging behind. Making this easier will improve enforcement and set the standard. Most employees in the Netherlands are paid into a bank account. If the wage is paid in cash, it is difficult to be sure that it is also paid correctly. Mrs Schouten gave an example of this. In some examples I'll mention more in my first term, you wonder: am I looking at suddenly popping up film images from the nineteenth century or is this really modern Netherlands? It turns out, however, that it is modern Netherlands. That's why the law is needed. This does not mean that cash payments are always wrong. However, they are susceptible to fraud. It's vulnerable. It happens that employees have to sign a statement that they have received the full wage, but then get much less cash. That is why in future we will have the minimum statutory minimum wage paid. The SP has asked why this actually only goes to the level of the statutory minimum wage and does not apply to the whole collective wage. The WML provides for the socially acceptable minimum remuneration that the employee can provide for his primary necessities. We want it to be paid in full. The SZW inspection also has a direct role to play in this process through administrative enforcement. For the super-legal part there is freedom of contract between employer and employee. These include agreements on the level and method of payment of the salary. The BW, the Civil Code, lays down the preconditions for this and the government does not act in this respect. That is why we are making more demands with regard to the payment of the statutory minimum wage than with regard to the payment of the collective wage. Mr Mulder asked on behalf of the VVD about net wages versus gross wages. Why is the net wage chosen? The net wage is what the employee receives from his employer. This is not the same for every employee in relation to payroll taxes and contributions. Depending on the applicable tax reductions, the net wage may thus vary, but it must be paid in a generous way, because the net wage and a clear explanation of how that was achieved on the pay slip will allow the inspection to determine whether or not the statutory minimum wage has been paid. It would be complicated if you obliged employers to transfer a gross wage, because that does not go to the employee. After all, it only gets the net wage. Much has been said, not least by active lobbies, about deductions. The legislative proposal provides that deductions from and deductions from the statutory minimum wage are no longer allowed. After all, workers may receive less than the statutory minimum wage because all kinds of costs are offset or deducted from the minimum wage. Our inspection sees in practice all kinds of high amounts of money in some cases involved bizarre amounts of housing and fines imposed on an employee. I'm not talking about a speeding ticket. If such a fine was caused by the employee, I would still understand why it should also be paid by him. No, I'm talking about fines for not taking out the garbage. I'm talking about fines for talking too loudly. Such fines are used to pay less than the minimum wage to the employee and thus again to compete unfairly with other entrepreneurs. The inspection also encounters examples of an employer who provides care contributions, but fails to insure the employee or a temporary employment agency which involves a monthly amount of "service costs" without it being clear which services or service it has provided for that purpose. The inspection also encounters examples of a temporary agency that involved so much housing costs, fines, general charges and meal allowances that the employee came up with a negative wage. In other words, he had to pay to work. Other well-known examples are the running fee, because of walking along a road that could then wear off. These are all deductions of which I do not immediately see how they contribute to combating malicious constructions. I have read that there have been arguments from the temporary workers who mean that these deductions are actually the cork on which our decent labour market is now moving. This is not entirely in line with the picture we get from our inspection. Moreover, this ban only applies up to and including the minimum wage. With that part of the wage above the statutory minimum wage, it can still be settled and deductions can be made if the requirements laid down in the Civil Code are met. The prohibition of set-offs and deductions applies to the statutory minimum wage, as that wage is the statutory minimum for an employee to meet his life needs. D66 asks, through Mr Van Weyenberg, whether that ban is the most appropriate means of combating abuse of, for example, high rental costs. What's the difference between that deduction and a direct debit? Refunds on wages are poorly related to the principle that everyone who carries out work must be insured against the payment of at least the statutory minimum wage. We want to ensure that guarantee. It is then up to the employee to spend his wage at his own discretion. One could also call it a liberal principle, with a little goodwill, that an employee should have his own pay. If the employee then wants to pay the rent through the employer after he has received his salary, that is his free choice. Then he must also actively give the order by means of a direct debit. It is precisely that guarantee of payment of wages that is lacking in the retention and that there is in the collection. It is not the case that an abuse is excluded when allowing a deduction. That impression could be generated from some of the arguments. After all, even if rent is deducted from wages, one may have to deal with house milkers. In my opinion, the examples that were so eloquently discussed in the Hague practice and elsewhere in the country come from a period that was allowed to be withheld. So whether or not to hold back is not at the heart of the matter. With the proposed ban on deductions, we achieve that the employee will at least be able to collect his pay in full and determine for himself what he spends it on. Mr Ulenbelt and Mr Van Weyenberg say that the law contains the possibility of an AMvB, which is certainly not there for nothing. So what's being thought of? Well, I have not yet worked that out in a proposal, because the main rule is that the minimum wage is paid in full to the employee. That's really important. However, I can imagine that, under certain circumstances, it is acceptable that certain payments should be withheld. With the provision that such deductions may be allowed at AMvB, whether or not under further conditions, the law has thus become more future-proof. What do you have to think about? I would like to interpret the insertion of the various Members of Parliament as a request for serious consideration of these advantages and disadvantages and to inform the Chamber accordingly. If you did, you would do so to protect and promote the bona fide deductions. Then you have to include conditions around the maximum rental price, around the providers and around the awareness of those providers. These are all components that strengthen the enforcement and protection of the employee. The legal assessment of the recent judgment must therefore be taken into account. That judgment seems to indicate that it is also said at European level that we should not have deductions from the minimum wage. At the same time, I can imagine that you interpret the rule that the retention is prohibited in such a way that retention on the minimum wage is prohibited unless you meet a large number of conditions which are clearly in the interests of the employee and thus also in the interests of decent housing at a decent price. In doing so, we must always consider the advantages and disadvantages, as outlined by the Court. On the one hand, there is the advantage of a clear, transparent provision, and on the other hand, there is the disadvantage of greater dependence, which has been mentioned by several Members. A question that could be asked in the event of interruption is when I send that letter to the Chamber. I'll do that before June 1st. That is not too late, because this law will enter into force on 1 July if it is adopted by both chambers. This provision, the retention ban, will enter into force on 1 January next year. If I send a letter to the Chamber before 1 June containing the pros and cons and the considerations regarding the possible AMvB, that is still well in time to decide before this provision enters into force.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u150	Thank you for that last answer, because then we can indeed look at it. I was triggered by the visual examples given by the Minister in his speech. That can indeed be outrageous deductions. However, the Minister said that this was noted on the pay slips and that is exactly where my question lies. It was precisely because it was visible that such deductions took place that they could be addressed. I am talking here, for example, about running money and talking too loudly. That kind of thing became visible because they were on the paycheck. How do you prevent the material from still happening, but in a different way, if it is no longer allowed and therefore no longer visible? How does it no longer work out on the pay slip of this kind of shameful material?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u151	Evil will remain there forever, and cheating will always be there, I fear. But if you're a malicious sender or a malicious employer and you want to get back from that employee for some hundreds of euros of quasi-consumptions as part of your business model, it's gonna be a lot harder to get it after you pay him the legal minimum wage. Then you have to ask that employee to transfer that to you and then you change the relationship between employer and employee tremendously at that point. And no, things that are now happening invisible can also happen invisible, but here, in some cases, they work quite standard with that retention. The employee, especially if he is not very powerful in the Dutch language, sees what he gets in his account, has hardly much to do with that, doesn't ring the bell and sometimes doesn't know what he pays wrongly. It is precisely the guarantee that everyone who works here will actually be paid the statutory minimum wage that is an important condition. Once again, I am prepared to describe the advantages and disadvantages of this AMvB to the Chamber in the letter, because I see very clearly the importance of decent housing for which Mr Blok is committed from the point of view of the employee, but also from the point of view of viability.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u152	The latter is good anyway, because it can stimulate the cleansing effect: under very good conditions, if you do everything very neatly, then it is okay. Then there can be a positive incentive and for that reason I would like to explore that AMvB. However, the Minister does not answer exactly the question I am asking, although he gives his answers passionately. So I'm trying to ask my question specifically. The inspection sees that there are abuses and that weird things happen because it's on the pay slip. If you know what was paid and you see that paycheck, you'll also see that there's been some weird deductions. Then you can act on that. Then it is not invisible, as the minister says, but then it is visible. Precisely because it is visible, it can be maintained. When it is no longer visible, it is precisely because of the principled position that is being taken that false constructions and exploitation can become more invisible. Indeed, the examples of the withheld fines are now visible on that pay slip. You can see that negative wages have been paid. Then you can act on it because it's visible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u153	It's not just a matter of principle. It's also pragmatic. Please don't forget that the inspection doesn't see all the pay slips. Someone must have already called the bell and there must already be such a paycheck if the inspection, whether it is a collective agreement or our inspection, is to be able to see that something is going on. So the difference is not a paycheck you're looking at or an invisible transaction. No, the difference is the question: who will notice that something is happening that is not right? In that paycheck, the employee often doesn't realize he's being mistreated. If that same employee has to sign separately for a direct debit of the walk-in money, it is much more likely that he wonders if it is normal and that he asks a colleague: did you have to sign this too? Then perhaps there is a greater chance that it will come to light, that it will go to the inspection and that it will be detected. So it's not just a matter of principle. It is also pragmatic. We'll turn this place around. It is now prohibited, unless it has been made possible under conditions in such an AMvB. Why should the good employers, who are fortunately also on the scene, who want to arrange it properly for their employees, stop doing so? I haven't understood that yet. In normal social traffic there are all kinds of forms where you provide a service or give someone a product, without having to keep it on his net minimum wage. The decent employer, certainly that decent employer or the decent employment agency that sees it as part of his recruitment in South Silesia to say "you will not only get a job, but also housing," can that direct debit be arranged? Once again, it is right that we should shift the course here, but I would like to see if under circumstances you can install an even more positive incentive for good employers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u154	In fact, the Minister says: if you stick to this rule of an absolute ban, it can also cause bona fide entrepreneurs to become negative. He also says that we should therefore see if we can create certain exceptions with the AMvB. But isn't it better to think about which cases it can strike? I hear in particular that this is about rent and care premium. Isn't it better to settle this right at the level of law?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u155	My argument is to say the opposite. In fact, I think that bona fide employers can get away with the current law and continue with the bona fide practices. I don't think it has to be prohibitive for an employer if he can't hold back but if it should go through direct debit. It may well be a disadvantage in some business models, but that disadvantage does not outweigh the profits you make to strengthen the position of the employee who receives the pay. With all due respect, I'm making a different choice than Mr Van der Staaij proposes. He says, "Get it done by law." But I think that the law here should set the standard that everyone gets their minimum wage paid and has it freely available. I will look very carefully at the advantages and disadvantages. I hope the Chamber knows me the same way. If I think it contributes, I will propose such an AMvB, but let it be the exception instead of the rule.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u156	But if the Minister says purely and alone that the collection practice can provide a solution, then surely there is no need for an exception or arrangement at AMvB? Actually, we can do it anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u157	That's right. I'm not convinced yet that it should be there. That's why I want to see the advantages and disadvantages of such an AMvB. Otherwise, I'd have introduced him. I would like to make such an analysis and take into account the legal aspects. But for the time being, I think the bona fide parties can get out of the way with the law as it stands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u158	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u159	Very briefly, Mr Van der Staaij, you have not had a third instance of mine this evening.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u160	Just as practical with regard to the care premium: isn't the risk that an employee says "I don't participate in direct debit, I don't have to" with the risk of uninsuredness for that reason?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u161	The benefit of the care premium is that it may be withheld. The amount does not exceed the statutory minimum holiday allowance. It can be contained. In fact, this has the additional advantage of at least paying the holiday money, which is not always the case. The problem of health insurance can also be solved under this law, because the premium is paid on the holiday allowance and not on the net minimum wage itself. The problem of rent is a higher amount. That would not be possible, but for the time being I am not convinced that this is necessary. I do think there is a chance that it is useful, hence the possibility of an AMvB in the law. It doesn't say that for nothing. I'm telling the Chamber to come back to it before 1 June.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u162	That last point, about health insurance, I have not read so far in the answer given by the cabinet. It may be my fault, of course, but I would appreciate it if the Minister put this on paper in the run-up to the votes. For me, this is an addition to what I have heard so far. That's a request. My specific question is as follows. So far, the Minister has written in the note on the "I am not intending" report. Now he says, "I'm gonna take another look." I know this minister and I can therefore assume that he will do so with an open mind. "No, I'm not going to" has changed to: "I'm going to take a good look. I still have to be convinced, but all options are open." I also assume that the Minister is doing this together with those bona fide parties, up to and including the health insurers, who have indeed expressed their deep concern to us that this bill would potentially cause them problems. Is he gonna involve those parties?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u163	I will forward this reply to the Chamber in writing before the vote on the legislative proposal I have just given. As far as the second question is concerned, I certainly do not intend it, because otherwise I would have just announced that there would be an AMvB. But I'm gonna look at it with an open eye. In doing so, I take with me what we have discussed here, taking into account the advantages and disadvantages. I am also doing this with a certain relativization of the distress call that has been slept by the ABU. The House may allow me to take that into account, but I am going to look at it with an open eye.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u164	I am trying to get it a little sharper, because it is an essential part of the debate. I hear the Minister saying he doesn't intend to do it, but he doesn't rule it out either. We are going to vote on the bill when we do not know what the AMvB will look like. So we cannot yet consider it in the legislative proposal. Why didn't the Minister take this before? Why didn't he come up with that until now?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u165	I did bring it, because the possibility of the AMvB is in the law. I'll refer the AMvB to the Chamber. We shall be organizing a veil for that. I'm not gonna give the Chamber any surprises afterwards. I think the bill is as good as it is, but I see the problem that could arise if there were far less decent housing offered. I think this is soluble with other collection options. In view of the first-term debate and listening to the Chamber, I have promised the Chamber to forward the advantages and disadvantages of such an AMvB to the Chamber by 1 June, with a government conclusion and an assessment of the legal framework. This is part of the law to ensure that you can respond to developments in society. You can also create such an AMvB after the law has entered into force, because you see things you don't like. Even if we came to the conclusion in June that an AMvB is not currently under discussion, the possibility remains in the law. Then you can also say a year or two later, before the official evaluation takes place: we are seeing things now that we would like to use such an AMvB. That's why it's not in there right now. I do not intend it and I am not convinced that it is necessary for the time being, but it could be useful.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u166	I hear the Minister very well, and that reassures me. We have had debates here on AMVBs that have been thrown into battle to get an essential element of a law through. I hope this does not happen in this case. I have heard the Minister very well and I thank him for his commitment to preside over the AMvB. If this does not happen, there may be doubts as to the direction in which this article is intended to go. I thank the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u167	I do not think I would surprise Mr Van der Staaij if I said that I betrayed the SGP amendment. This provides for a legal provision which allows the deduction of these costs. We have deliberately chosen the possibility of the AMvB. I just explained that. I therefore recommend that this amendment be rejected. An explicit scheme for the retention of the premium for the Health Insurance Act is not necessary, as it can be deducted from the statutory minimum holiday allowance. It concerns the possibility of deductions above the statutory minimum wage. As I have just promised, I will put this on paper. This may remove a concern of the SGP group. I have just spoken about this other concern. I hope this doesn't ruin the desire of the SGP with its beautiful biblical foundation under good work. Mr Van Ojik has asked if I know the site New in the Netherlands and if I think the information on health insurance is adequate. I know that site; it's a site of the government. I don't want to claim that I know all the sites of the government, but this one does. The information on that site is translated into all the languages of the European Union. The information on the site is accessible and that is of course the intention. I find the information on health insurance clear in itself. In view of Mr Van Ojik's input on non-insurance fines, I do not know whether the details of the Dutch system are sufficiently explicit. I'll see if that information can't be better than she is now. The site has been translated into all EU languages and there is information on health insurance, but I would certainly like to see if that can't be done any better.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u168	My question was not whether the Minister knows the brochure or the website. I assumed this was the case. It is very good to look at the content again. That's what the Minister promised. I mentioned the example of the fine you get when you're not insured. This insurance is compulsory in the Netherlands. The Healthcare Institute also has a website. That's not a government site, it's a joint health insurance company. Because we are all concerned about whether people are insured, I wonder whether this information should perhaps also be available in several languages.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u169	We may have an opinion on whether sites of private parties should be available in multiple languages, but it is not up to us to organise that. It is important that the information on the site Nieuw is accessible in the Netherlands. Again, I will see if any improvements are possible. Mr Mulder asks what is the matter with regard to the seizure of wages when deductions are prohibited. Wage attachment is always possible up to the level of the batter-free foot. That is not affected by the prohibition of deductions. It's gonna stay that way. Through the Wet approach fakes constructions, the inspection will soon be able to make results of investigations public. This makes the conduct of the inspection more transparent. There's been a number of years of discussion about it. It is a wish we have expressed before. Far ahead of this cabinet, in 2005, the framework vision of supervision indicated that one should strive for greater openness. I have also referred to this in the explanatory statement. The Scientific Council for Government Policy has also indicated that greater openness can improve citizens' confidence in government. This proposal responds to the desire for greater transparency and greater openness on the results of the inspection. It's not going to be a black list of only the companies that have been fined. All inspection results shall be published. So there are also companies that will be proud to be able to refer to the inspection with them. This will ensure full transparency on the results of inspections. With that, I say to Mr Heerma and others after.... the law is not only intended to prevent actual underpayment and to impose a penalty on the bad guy. It will also strengthen the preventive effect, the standard-setting effect of disclosure and action under these new provisions. The inspection will maintain not only the minimum wage, but also discrimination in the labour market and all kinds of other legal requirements that we have imposed. In my view, therefore, the preventive effect of this provision goes even further than what we are talking about in the case of bogus structures, but concerns the whole decent labour market. Where the inspection finds that this is not the case, it will be public and will have an impact, including on consumers and the media. Personal data and business and manufacturing data are, of course, excluded from that transparency obligation. Disclosure shall take place only after the investigation has been definitively completed and in the case of sanctions decisions, where the interested party is given the opportunity to express an opinion and after the expiry of the time limit within which a provisional provision may be made against disclosure. That's how we balanced the situation. If you are wrongly faced with a sanction, it can also harm you. So a company can go to court to prevent that disclosure. Once that deadline has expired, it will be on the site. This will promote better compliance with laws and regulations. Companies will do more to prevent violations. It is an additional interest not to get into the publicity as a ungrateful person or someone who behaves badly in the labour market. Companies and consumers are informed about who does and does not comply with the rules, about where you should and should not buy to say it at home. The disclosure of inspection data therefore also serves the interests of third parties. I come to the chain liability. The chain liability for the due wage is a very important part, perhaps the most important, of the Law's approach to bogus constructions. The aim is to ensure bona fide chains in which employees receive the right wage. More and more we see that underpayments are detected and that people who are underpaid do the work for another party, for example for the employer's client or for the principal client. The one who actually underpaid is the employer. However, the work is actually carried out for a client in the chain. Companies regularly spend certain work on other companies, which in turn subcontract certain parts to other companies. This sometimes creates long chains from different clients, from different links. There are all different activities, pieces of work, which are carried out ever further away from the principal contractor, but which are ultimately carried out for the benefit of that principal contractor. Unfortunately, in such chains we see examples of underpayment of employees. I mentioned the Eemshaven, the construction of the power plant. In addition, we have seen that hundreds of employees have been found to have been paid too little wages by the judge. At present, other links in the chain are not liable for any underpayment of employees in the chain. If underpaid, the employee can only address his employer. The introduction of chain liability will allow an employee to also hold clients in the chain liable if he is underpaid. We expect three effects of this. The first is a preventive effect, as clients will ensure that due regard is given to decent working conditions and the importance of decent working conditions in the chain is recognised in advance during the procurement process. The second is a corrective effect: solving problems with detected underpayment. It is now the case that underpayment is sometimes seen to be sheepish or looking away. Soon it will be the case that the problems raised will be solved much earlier. The third point is ultimum remedium, namely the possibility of enforcing post-payment through the courts. How often will workers, supported by trade unions, actually make use of this legal side of chain liability? It's hard to predict. I don't expect a sea of lawsuits. I think that preventive action will be the most important effect of this provision in the law. However, this preventive effect cannot be achieved without the risk of legal recourse. How does it work in practice? An employee who is underpaid may in the first instance appeal to his employer, but at the same time the direct client of his employer. There's joint and several liability. On the lower two steps of the stairs I use that metaphor, but the employee can address directly. The employee can therefore make a choice. Either he holds his employer liable, or he holds the client of his employer liable, or he immediately takes them both. The employer and his client shall be jointly and severally liable for the remuneration due by means of this legislative proposal. At the time when the employee makes his employer, his client or both liable, he may also inform the principal client of that claim. That's important. Here the corrective effect of the law can occur. The main contractor can then, from his role, exert pressure on other links in the chain to solve the problem and to pay for it. In domestic terms, the principal will address his contractor. He'll say, "What's happening to me?" He will say: I am being sent a claim on behalf of a number of employees and if that claim is correct, those workers will be grossly underpaid. He will say: I have set the following conditions in my tender for a reason, so I want you to go ahead and solve this problem. He'll say, "I don't want to hear any more of it, I want it solved." That's how it's gonna work in practice. This is a very important element. If, despite the liability, the employee does not receive his salary from the employer or his client, he may, under certain conditions, refer the following client to payment of the salary. In this way, he can, step by step, appeal to an ever higher client and eventually reach the principal client. There are two exceptions to the main rule whereby the employee can rather address the principal client himself. The first is the situation that, one year after informing the principal client, the employee has still not received anything. The second exception is the situation in which there is serious gross underpayment, i.e. if at least three months are less than half of the wage due or less than 70% of the statutory minimum wage. In the event of such serious underpayment, the employee may hold the principal client liable six months after informing the principal client. My expectation is that clients will take different measures to avoid culpability. That expectation is also based on what I have heard in the many conversations I have had about this part of the law. Clients want to settle non-disputability as much in advance as possible. That is not only decent, but also logical, from the point of view of business. This alone will reduce the risk of underpayment. So this is the preventive effect that I have just mentioned. In the explanatory memorandum, I have given examples of measures that a client could take. Mr Mulder asked me if the judge would read that. Oh, yeah. In interpreting the law, the judge uses the entire legal history, including the explanatory statement. This part of the law will undoubtedly be read and involved in the assessment of the facts of a case. It was deliberately chosen not to include these examples in the legislative text itself, because it would no longer be examples, but would be a mandatory list. The points would then be ticked off by clients, after which they could sit back. That's what we don't want. Mr Mulder does not want that, and the cabinet does not want that either. We want the clients to act actively if something went wrong at the bottom of the chain. That is also the great difference between the non-disputability that we have incorporated into the law and the pre-emption that some have advocated. In advance it is mainly about ticking off the list, after which you have nothing to do with it. In the case of non-applicability, the moment something is reported, you still have a duty to do something about it. After all, there is still a residual risk that you will still be held liable. Thanks to these examples, the clients can also choose to take other measures. That is good, because sectors and industries differ. What is a wonderful way of preventing underpayment in one sector can be solved quite differently in another sector. They have freedom. I think that's good, too. By taking such measures in advance and afterwards, clients are given more certainty that they are not culpable if there is any underpayment. In the end, this is up to the judge to judge. I should like to quote Mr Heerma............................................................................................................................................................................................ What kind of measures do you have to think about? Contractual provisions designed to ensure that contractors or contractors act in accordance with laws, regulations and collective agreements. Agreements in such a contract on periodic checks, for example through an audit. Only do business with companies registered in the register. These are a number of examples which Mr Mulder has also mentioned. The use of a label or certificate can also be a way of fulfilling the goal of chain liability: to prevent underpayment and unfair competition. By working with contractors who have a certificate or quality mark, clients get more certainty that they are dealing with a bona fide party. Such a mark or certificate does not yet exist, but can be developed. But also in the case of the certificate, what I said before, i.e. that clients after the assignment, if underpayment is found despite the certificate, should take action to resolve it. In the end, it is up to the court to assess whether, in such a situation, working with a certified contractor, in conjunction with that action taken after the observed underpayment, is sufficient for non-disputability. The SP asked why no joint and several liability for the entire chain was chosen. The model before us puts pressure on the main contractor and other links in the chain to prevent underpayment and, where appropriate, restore it. In the case of joint and several liability for the whole chain, much of the pressure on the lower links in the chain would fall because one immediately walks to the main contractor. This reduces effectiveness, because it is precisely the links that cause the underpayment. The problem of underpayment will have to be solved as much as possible where it arises, at the bottom of the chain. Therefore, both the employer and his client are jointly and severally liable. In Mr Ulenbelt's words, it is a combination of stairs and stairs. The first two steps are at the same time. The client also feels a responsibility, because it receives that regulation. So instead of choosing whether to go up stairs or down the stairs, we throw a bucket of soup over it and the first two steps can be approached at once. It is therefore preventive and corrective and, in case of actual underpayment, the wage can be collected. The legislative proposal thus strikes a balance between strengthening the rights of workers, the effective preventive effect of the measure and not unnecessarily burdening the clients. This design promotes workers' ability to quickly claim the arrears of wages, avoids unnecessary administrative burdens and encourages preventive and corrective action. This means that I must discourage the SP amendment, whereby the principal contractor would be held directly liable. The model before us immediately puts the pressure on the chain and on the client who receives that wage claim. I am afraid that the amendment will not have the effect that Mr Ulenbelt attributes to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u170	The principal contractor or principal contractor shall direct the quality of the work. If a jetty isn't right, there's always someone watching and so on. The same goes for building a car. We have arranged for the client to be liable if he builds a house, regardless of which subcontractor has made a mistake. I mentioned the example of the car. That's where the same applies. Why not also in the field of labour? I believe that the Minister was originally responsible for the idea of joint and several liability. I'm assuming he's still in favour of it. Now he turns the employee into an acrobat, which can go up the stairs and down the stairs at the same time. That doesn't offer much confidence. Why?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u171	I am very sorry that this is happening. On the contrary, I have dealt with the defence as to why this model is more effective than the model proposed by Mr Ulenbelt. He says, "I know the minister actually wants something else." He says: I know that these protesters do "take on" chanting but actually want something else. He says, "I know everyone actually wants something different than he says here." But it's not. I'm defending this law. This law is good. It's a big step. I very much appreciate Mr Ulenbelt in particular and the SP in general. This is a law in which the sour "it's not a diamond but a glass" is really out of the question. Here, I think, fits the constructive attitude with which the SP advertises today. Let's see it. It's a good law. Don't be so acidic about it. It is also a good model for liability.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u172	I'm not being acidic. I have a concrete proposal. I gave the example of the Tax Administration. The Tax Administration can collect premiums and taxes throughout the chain. I suggest that this is not acidic, but rather constructive, to put the employee in exactly the same position as the Tax Administration when it comes to his wages. He can choose where in the chain. The minister doesn't believe in it, but kicking down is really easier than stairs, everywhere. Unless you have a ride to the top, you can. But then you'll start with the top one again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u173	The SP does not comment on my argument that it removes the pressure on the lower two links in the chain too much. That's gotta be where the pressure is. That's where it goes wrong. Sure, there's a responsibility for the principal. He may have liked an acceptance price that he might have known: this is not right. Sure, if he gets a call "here Bulgarians or Portuguese are underpaid," he has to do something. That's what the law says. Then he gets a paycheck and he's gonna have to go to the gig. But if you can assume immediate liability, except for those two cases where it should be, the effect on the lower two links is gone, but you must have it. You don't have to choose "I'm going from top to bottom or from bottom to top," you have to decorate it so that the pressure is on the whole chain. The client who receives the wage claim will see: if I do not act now, I may regret it later. Mind you, it's gonna be in the paper too, it's gonna be made public. The bottom two links in the chain know: we can both be held jointly and severally liable, perhaps at the same time; what is going on here?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u174	Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u175	The Minister continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u176	Mr Ulenbelt has as a kind of explanation that I am not in favour of his proposal, that I actually think his proposal is better, but for whatever reason does not make it known. That's not true. I think this proposal is better.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u177	In my first term, I explained why I believe there is a preventive effect of this law. The Minister has even better expressed the beauty of civil law by adding the collective element to it. He then made it even more beautiful by saying: it's not really about so many things, because those first two steps are so important. Now there is also a piece in this law about the Work Foreigners Act. He knows no chain liability, but he knows a chain clause. That's administrative law, and that's just different now. During the debate on the Fraud Act and the functioning of the fine provisions, we discussed fines under the administrative law of that chain clause. Can this administrative chain provision of the Foreign Labour Act learn from this civil chain liability of which the Minister so eloquent explains all the advantages?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u178	Yes, I am singing the praises of civil law in the Netherlands. Especially with this new element in it, which is really an unusual element in civil law, I think it will work. Labour law has never been normal civil law because of this inequality between parties. There has always been a protection of a weaker party. Sure, you have to look in different jurisdictions at the question of what's effective. With regard to the position around the Foreign Labour Act, of course, other interests also play a role. First of all, a stranger himself will never ring the bell. After all, he has an interest in allowing him to work without that employment permit. Extreme exploitation, I'm gonna let it go. Secondly, you also have an enormous social interest in forcing people to be very aware of that risk. Here too you have administrative and criminal sanctions, but they do not work in the same way as the Foreign Labour Act. They work after the inspection has established them. The short answer is: it is possible. We need to look at how we organise this type of legislation as effectively as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u179	This is a slightly too general answer to me. We have always had this discussion under the Fraud Act. We have seen from court rulings that not everything is going exactly as it should be. That's government law. This is not about preventive action or awareness of the need to do the moral good. Fines are imposed which are sometimes inexplicable. This also applies to administrative law in the Foreign Labour Act. I refer once again to this praise for civil law; I understand that this is different from the Foreign Labour Act. Can we look at this law, just as we are looking at the Fraud Act, how can people be prevented from facing inexplicably high fines there? Together with Mr Van Weyenberg, I have tabled a motion on this point to prevent the imposition of such high fines without any awareness, prevention or correction. That's just as nice about this part of the law. Is there any improvement in this respect?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u180	I've agreed to come forward with proposals on the Fraud Act. Let me add that I associate the thoughts that we develop with each other about effectiveness with that letter, without affecting the essentially different characters of those systems. In this case, I have explored these other models in the many discussions on this subject. But if you imagine that there is joint and several liability throughout the chain up to and including the client, you can hardly imagine a system without safeguard. If you don't have a safeguard and so everyone in court should prove their non-applicability for the whole chain, you're risking a huge control thing, even where that's not necessary. Then you risk that every transaction will be audited by the principal client without this being for the benefit of the employee. Then it closes. After all, you're gonna end up on such a release. Then you have, I think, symbol law. Well, you'll have that joint and several liability, but with a check-off list. What we've been looking for in this law is the result of that search: yes, one can be held liable; no, you don't want to remove that pressure with a check-off list through the warranty. It must be a system with open standards, but without excessive administrative burdens. The SP's amendment on the percentages, which concerns item No. 5, I don't recommend. The main purpose of chain liability is to prevent underpayment. This is reflected in the design. We just talked about that. The principal client can be held liable relatively quickly if there is serious underpayment. Usually it is much more obvious that the employee first progresses his wage at the bottom of the chain. Usually things went wrong there. In the case of underpayment abuses, the possibilities for the employee at the bottom of the chain have been extended by the introduction of joint and several liability for the employer's client. It is important that the problem of underpayment is resolved where it arises. I fully understand the plea for the other percentages. I also believe that the main contractor should take action with any underpayment, regardless of whether it is low or high in the chain, in order to restore or restore it. That's what's in the model. That's its corrective effect. Mrs Schouten asked whether the step to the principal client should not be made easier. Isn't that 50% too high a threshold? In general, the same reasoning applies. I admit immediately that you're looking for a level somewhere, 50%, 55% of which you say: yes, but this is getting so gritty; you need to be able to get there right away. The aim is, in particular, the preventive effect. In addition, you know that a main contractor will have to do something if he finds the wage claim in the lower two links of the chain on his desk. I think this is the meaning, and that is why you should not make the threshold too low. In that case, the corrective effect is less attractive. Then you think: see you in court; I'll notice. He wants to prevent that from happening, and that's why he's gonna act when that report comes in.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u181	The Minister has just given his opinion on the amendment to item No. 14. Let me look at Mr Ulenbelt to see if that is correct. The minister says 5, but it'll be 14.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u182	The President is always right, so the President is right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u183	I think that is a fantastic starting point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u184	Then there is an amendment from the SP, in which the chairman will give the correct number, whereby a principal is ordered by the court to pay back due wages, with a fine of 50% of the wage bill and 100% in the event of repeated payments. I'd advise against that. The purpose here is not to punish. We have other systems for that. I'm just referring to the discussion we just had. The aim is to prevent underpayment and in the event of a failure to recover it. The point is that the employee gets the pay and the chain gets bona fide and decent. This is what we want to achieve. As soon as the law has been broken, the inspection can also, of course, impose sanctions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u185	This was the amendment in part No. 15.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u186	This duet is going well. D66 asked, through Mr Van Weyenberg, what Rijkswaterstaat will do after the adoption of the law and how things have been between me and Mr Schultz in the past period. In general terms, Rijkswaterstaat will require its contractors to comply with the rules in force by means of legal provisions and decisions. This bill, I say to reassure you, was drawn up in extremely good and constructive consultation with my colleague from Infrastructure and the Environment. Rijkswaterstaat has been closely involved in the preparation of the proposal and has also formulated contractual provisions for the implementation of chain liability. I will not say that people are looking forward to it, but I think that this law will be properly implemented. They also get more handles to prevent underpayment in the chain. Also for Rijkswaterstaat it is not pleasant to be in the newspaper, as has happened in the past period. If he were to be held liable after the adoption of this bill, it would also be easier to get a story from lower links in the chain. He can work with that, too. Then there is the SP amendment to limit chain liability not to pay but to apply to all cash-valued terms of employment. I would advise against that amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u187	This is, in my view, Mr Van Weyenberg's amendment to item No. 16.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u188	No, this is really a SP amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u189	Which one is it? I think it would be good for the Acts to establish what amendment we are talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u190	13.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u191	13, fantastic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u192	I don't recommend it. Wage is a condition of employment which is relatively easy to determine whether an employee has also received what was due. The pay slip provides insight into what right exists. This does not apply to all working conditions which are valued in money. A possible broadening of the scope of supply chain liability would lead to a reduction in the clarity of the scope of supply chain liability. In addition, it does not always become clear whether or not an employment condition is worth money and, if so, what its economic value is. For clients it will be very complicated to have an overview of all agreed terms of employment of individual employees in such a chain. It has been deliberately chosen to apply chain liability to wages. Wage is the most basic working condition and the working condition on which the client can also have the most insight and control. The European rules on chain liability are also based on pay. This was all argument for the pre-advisation. I come to the SGP's pre-opinion on item No. 8.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u193	But first there is an interruption by Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u194	I wanted to interrupt earlier, but that went wrong for a while, namely when it was about Rijkswaterstaat. This was too fast for me. It seems that we are going to apply this very well. Does the Minister agree with me that it is sad that we have been talking about abuses for two years and that it seems that a law should be made by the cabinet that offers more handle? Apparently we had to wait two years, until by law we could arrange things, so that Rijkswaterstaat would fill out that client role much more seriously. I find that really disappointing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u195	I take note of that disappointment. I have just mentioned a few shocking examples of underpayment, but I also find the less shocking unacceptable. It doesn't fit in the Netherlands. We have the minimum wage and the collective agreement for a reason. Whether the final client is the government or a non-government, I don't care. I believe that we should opt for a decent labour market, for good and honest work. That means I'm very happy with this bill. Rijkswaterstaat is motivated to handle it well and wants to be a good client. All examples of underpayment and false constructions are a thorn in my eye, just like Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u196	I hear now that Rijkswaterstaat is going to do it all differently. We have that law. It's true that he gives extra handles. I am still very curious about what actions Rijkswaterstaat will take concretely in these major projects. I am fine with the Minister asking his colleague to inform us about this. We need to get this right. Not only does this require knowing that there is a law, but it also requires a great deal of action by the State of the Netherlands. I'm very curious about this and would like to know how it's going to change now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u197	Like other clients, they will prepare for the law. I will say something about the entry into force on 1 July; that is very soon. If the law is passed next week, I'm gonna start information right away. If I have not lost the majority that I thought I had just discovered in the first term, I also have some confidence in the treatment in the First Chamber. So we need to prepare ourselves well. The clients will then look at their standard terms, the contracts, the procurement process. They're also gonna be preparing to deal with such a report of underpayment. How do you respond? What do you agree on about controls? They go in the chain on a random basis; we're not going to control everything and everyone. This will apply to Rijkswaterstaat and to all major clients who are affected by this. That is a good thing, because it will contribute to clean chains, in which one simply pays what one owes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u198	Just like the Minister, I expect that the chain liability in this Law approach will ensure that a main contractor will do a lot of things: to establish his contracts more solidly, to ensure that they are respected throughout the chain, to rely on abuses. Now I also hope that the main contractor will not do something specific: work contracts at a price which he can sense on his clogs that collective agreements and collective agreements cannot be paid. Does the Minister have that view?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u199	It seems quite natural to me that a party that offers a great work should pay a reasonable price for it. A reasonable price should make it possible for people to be paid properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u200	Does the Minister share my view that, if there is not such a reasonable price, if the process has started at a low price, when all sorts of things have been put into the contract, you will have to have a very difficult time convincing the judge that you have not acted incriminatingly?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u201	This is a good example to illustrate that it is right that the judge should ultimately rule on the culpability. You can imagine a case in which an employer did not include this in his standard contract, but did treat his employees very neatly, communicated very neatly, acted very neatly, and ultimately the judge considered him no reproach. You can also imagine circumstances in which a price has been agreed that a child, with the kindergarten logic introduced here today, can see that the work cannot be done for that purpose. In such a case, a judge could say that that party is culpable, despite all the other things she's done. The law could therefore also have a preventive effect on this issue. I would like to move on to the amendment to item No. 8 by Mr Bishop of the SGP. I would advise against that amendment. I have just sung the praise of that joint and several liability of the employer's client. It is precisely a fundamental part of the system to build up that pressure at the bottom of the chain, where it goes wrong. The direct client of the underpaying employer is expected to have much more insight into this than people elsewhere in the chain. It must therefore also be able to be addressed directly. I come to the questions about the self-employed without staff.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u202	I still have a question about chain liability. The Minister said something about the serious underpayment and that this is a reason to go, so to speak, directly to the principal client. He has also said something about the question of when there is such a serious underpayment. That has to do with that percentage. I agree with the Minister that the rate currently laid down in the law can remain. I replied to a question by Mr Ulenbelt. However, I also asked the Minister whether he would also consider how this percentage would work out in practice in his assessment already undertaken in the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u203	Sure. If MPs or viewers at home now fear that I was finished with chain liability, I can reassure them: it is not yet that far. I just wanted to talk to you about that. There's gonna be a whole pile of chain liability. I know that our President attaches particular importance to this too, so we should not rattle it off. That is why I come to Mr Ulenbelt's question about chain liability for thezzp'er. In this proposal it is linked to wages on the basis of a contract of employment. Zzp'ers can't call on that. They are not employees and do not receive wages. The relationship of authority between the employer and the employee ensures that the employee is in a dependent relationship with the employer. The employee must perform his work personally on the basis of the contract of employment, while his employer contracts with principals for whom the work is ultimately carried out. The additional remedies the employee receives with the chain liability match that dependent position. A true zzp'er........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... If the collective agreement contains a minimum rate for the hire ofzzp'ers, the bill does not provide for chain liability. After all, there is no question of employment and pay. Azzp'er can only claim the contract sum in law from the direct client. However, it is important to tackle bogus self-employment, precisely in order to prevent the displacement of workers byzzp'ers. That's what Ulenbelt and Christmas were all about. Zzp'ers are actually in a dependent situation, with a so-called client. Self-employed persons who invoke the legal presumption of the existence of a contract of employment may, however, make use of the chain liability for remuneration. In a fictitious case you cannot establish that, but if the dependent relationship is there, in such a way that there is a legal presumption of a contract of employment, the chain liability therefore applies. I would like to see whether it is possible, in the long term, to include the elements relating to price fixing and pay. However, I do not want to do so immediately and I do not want to say that we are going to do so immediately. It's one of the subjects I want to look at. Legally, you also have to take due account of the problem of demarcation. There's no such thing as azzp'er. That is not a legal phenomenon. You have entrepreneurs and you have employees. Azzp'er has become a separate animal in recent years. It's not that simple. I'd like to take a look at that. As a cabinet, we are, of course, also in the process of developing proposals to better combat bogus self-employment. In the light of this, I would like to return to that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u204	Perhaps in abundance, because I wanted to ask the Minister when he looked at it and was going to share it with the Chamber. However, I thought I heard him say in his last sentence that we can take into account that he is doing so in the context of the broader discussion that we are going to have aboutzzp'ers and bogus self-employment. But then I had the finger on the button.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u205	Yes. In the context of managing the expectation: I have outlined a number of obstacles and bears on the road. I understand the question, however, and that is why I want to look at it in that context.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u206	Now I think it's getting a little unclear again. That ibo is coming soon, before the summer. However, this is not at all tailored to the specific question of whether there will soon be false self-employed. That is a much broader discussion, which has much more a focus from the Dutch zzp'er, while later it might be about the so-called zzp'ers who come from the CEE countries. I don't think it's very convenient to tie that together. Does the Minister share that opinion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u207	It seemed useful to me, but of course I may be mistaken. In the interdepartmental policy research (ibo) onzzp'ers as a phenomenon, it is a multitude of questions. It is about the protection ofzzp'ers, the growth of entrepreneurs, the tax treatment. It's also about the small percentage of "we don't know exactly what percentage "that's actually not a "zzp'er'er'. Those are the bogus self-employed. Everyone agrees that we want to tackle this and prevent it, for the benefit of the realzzp'ers. In this context, it may be interesting to include the question raised by the SP and PvdA groups. On the ibo comes a cabinet response. My commitment was to include this question, without raising too much expectations in advance. In my view, that is not clumsy or illogical.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u208	We had that explicit question, too. Because thezzp'ers are not covered by this law now, I won't be surprised when suddenly a lot ofzzp'ers are working in these sectors. I think that the Minister should be much more alert to this by now; he should not wait for an ibo, a cabinet response and a debate. What is he going to do in concrete terms to monitor whether that effect will occur if this law enters into force on 1 July?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u209	I agree that we need to focus on that. Apparent self-employment can also contribute to false constructions, evasion and so on. Therefore, the chain liability already applies when a contract of employment is suspected, if it is not at all an independent zzp'er who freely determines with which client he goes at what price. When it runs like a duck, swims like a duck and quacks like a duck, it is usually also a duck, in this case an employment contract. Then the chain liability already applies. This law regulates matters relating to employment contracts and wages. This does not solve all the problems, not even those relating to bogus self-employment. It's gonna take more than that. We need to focus on that. In that context, the ibo is indeed important, because that is about the whole positioning of the zzp'ers. You should not pretend that allzzp'ers are actually victims of exploitation, but there is a category that is not really entrepreneurial at all. Those people can be vulnerable. That can also play a role in these kinds of phony constructions. In that light, I would like to look at the suggestion made. It can contribute to it, but maybe it doesn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u210	The Minister doesn't answer the question. The question is not specifically about the commitment. The question is another and it has been asked by several people in the first term. What if the evil ones, looking at this law, come up with constructions that don't touch this law? This can be done through foreign e.g.s. I made that suggestion myself. Several people have raised the question of whether we will see an increase inzzp'ers because people want to avoid the law. The answer to that question as a result of this law cannot be referred to the ibo. I think that was Mrs Schouten's question and there is another answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u211	That's right. However, Mrs Schouten interrupted me in answering another question. Mr Heerma should not blame me for answering that other question. That question was whether, for the same reason, you should not extend this element of chain liability. In addition, another question has been asked by Mr Heerma of the CDA and Mrs Schouten of the Christian Union: does the law not lead to new false constructions and are the real evil ones being dealt with? The answer to that question is in folder eight. Mr President, allow me now to compliment the Minister on his support for this kind of legislative process, which makes it possible to find a satisfactory answer even in the event of a possible uncomfortable interruption, in folder eight. Mr Van Weyenberg asked whether the law could enter into force as of 1 July 2015 if there were no such labels. Yeah, you can. There is no need for those labels or certificates to be there. It is a possibility that is offered to construct and adjudicate the non-applicability. But thanks to the examples in the explanatory memorandum, you can also show as an employer that you can't be blameless without such a label. This is a possibility that one can use to strengthen his position in it. The SGP asked about the status of a label if users can no longer trust that such a mark also guarantees non-disclaimability. It's set up by private parties. They themselves draw up a set of requirements that must be met in order to obtain the label. In the explanatory memorandum to the legislative proposal, the government has set out a number of examples of measures that can support the use of non-disclaimability. It is very obvious that such measures will end up in such a certificate. But the requirements may also depend on the use in a particular sector. The quality mark is distinguished not only by the requirements of the person holding the mark, but also by the way in which the quality mark is checked for compliance with the requirements of the mark. If a label is just a piece of paper and does not mean anything in practice, then we will soon agree that it should not be possible to draw a guarantee from it either. If one merely theoretically and fictitiously meets the requirements of such a mark, it is right that that mark will not lead to non-disclaimability in the case of chain liability either. So if, for example, during a procedure it would appear that the label is not at all satisfactory, because underpayment errors occur among the holders of the label, then you can also imagine that the parties associated with the label will want to do something with it and will no longer be satisfied with 'we have a label'. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, That is why this too cannot be regarded as a safeguard, but it is indeed a possibility. I also hope that sectors will make use of this. This in turn improves the preventative effect of the law to contribute to non-discriminability. Mr Van Weyenberg asked why it was in the explanatory statement and not in the law. I have just argued that. He also asked whether if a link is non-defeatable, a higher link is non-defeatable. If a lower link is addressed by an employee and successfully relies on non-applicability, then the employee can hold a higher link liable. If that higher link relies on non-applicability, the court will have to consider whether that appeal can also succeed. This depends on the circumstances of the case and the efforts of that link to prevent or restore payment in the chain. Non-declarability at the bottom does not mean that chain liability will always stop. Of course, the probability is falling again if, for example, six links in the chain are not reproachable, while the seventh has done something very wrong. The guarantee, the responsibility to ensure that there is decent pay, remains, for every link in the chain. D66 also asks what it means that no time limit has been agreed within which employees must bring a claim. That term is simply in the Civil Code. That is the five-year period within which a claim must be brought. The same applies to wage claims. I do not consider it added value to shorten that period under this law. The normal time limits of civil law apply. Moreover, an employee will, of course, make such a claim faster than slower. In that sense, that deadline will not be met soon. I don't think there will be pay claims from much longer ago. After all, an underpaid worker has an interest in ensuring that it is corrected as quickly as possible. GroenLinks and the PvdA have asked how this goes in the event of bankruptcy. The chain liability doesn't end in bankruptcy. On the contrary, the law provides that chain liability cannot be avoided by plundering e.g. or strategic bankruptcies. In the event of a failure of a lower link, the higher link can be invoked if the property proves insufficient for payment of the due wage. A higher link is also encouraged in this way to do business with bona fide contractors. Mr Van der Staaij asked why joint and several liability makes it possible for the employer to be skipped in the event of chain liability. That's to maximize the stimulus at the bottom of the chain. You can assume that the employer's direct client also feels responsible for the remuneration paid there. The joint and several liability gives you the pressure wherever you want it. In practice, we see the wrongs occurring in the lower two links. It is not the client who orders to pay X or Y but too little, but there are clients who look away or who do not feel the responsibility for what is happening beyond the chain.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u212	I'll come back to the bankruptcy in the chain. As a duped employee, you have two options. You can try to get your rights out of the bankrupt estate The Council of State has said that you have to come from the high house, because you are in line but certainly not in front. You could try going up a stairs. However, that is not possible if the employer's employer's client is in a position to rely on non-applicability. I still owe money, but whoever I'm supposed to get it from is bankrupt. Then I have to go one step higher, to the client, but he says he can't help it. Doesn't the Minister see that danger too?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u213	There's two sides to that. First of all, wage claims are certainly preferable in the event of bankruptcy. If it's a normal bankruptcy, it's not that hopeless at all. Only the tax authorities go above that, but it is indeed a preferred claim. The Council of State is talking about those cases where there is a deliberate use of a thump-e.g. where there is nothing. Then it could be different. Secondly, there is an interest of the employer and the client. If you're not blameworthy, you're not blameable. Then you've done everything in your power not to be reproachable and so you've worked with a neat business and you've responded, but you've gone bankrupt at the bottom of someone. Then there may indeed be a circumstance in which the employee catches bone. What we intend to do with this law is to promote as much as possible that people behave properly in that chain and that underpayment is corrected. If one is not blameworthy and the judge finds that, in the end, the client and the employer must also know that they have done what they had to and could not and do not want to be held liable for the mistakes or misfortunes of another. There's a balance in that. That's true.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u214	Several colleagues have talked about the possibility of new things being made up to get out of that liability. I called it a cat-and-mouse game. We don't want any of that. One of the ways to do that could be through bankruptcy. That may or may not be forced, but it could be forced into that chain, allowing the links at the top of that chain to say: sorry, but I can't help it. Those are players who have benefited from the wage advantage, but who seem to be able to rely on non-disclaimability successfully. That wouldn't belong to a real chain liability.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u215	I do not think that in Mr Van Ojik's example, the judge would be so quick to go along with the adoption of non-appointability. This sounds like it's a business model, as if it's a conscious choice to use an e.g. that will explode further up the chain. Please note: the direct client of that puff-e.g. is jointly and severally liable. He'll have to hang for the back pay immediately. The links up there can't hide too easily. If it is as Mr Van Ojik has just outlined, then the judge will say: but I am not buying it; there is no question of non-applicability here. In other words, there is no absolute guarantee, because if an employer has done it all properly and he is non-disputable, then he does not have to count on that problem either. The following is a pre-announcement of the answer to the question in folder 8. Of course, we must continue to take account of new constructions. People who mean evil are not going to stop when this law is passed. After all, evil is very banal. There are people who may be affectionate until the good... the spirit is willing, but the flesh is weak.... but they think: if they can do it at that price, it will be good; I look the other way. In addition, you want to achieve effect. The real criminals won't immediately make their lives better, but there will be a higher chance. A number of times it has been said that you should keep the finger on the wrist. You have to keep your finger on the wrist to fight effectively the new constructions that will arise.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u216	Just at the point where the Minister went in before Mr Van Ojik placed his interruption. The Minister indicated that in order to maximise the incentive, it is necessary for the client to be jointly and severally liable. But my question was and remains: why is not the employer first addressed? Why has this immorality been abandoned?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u217	That has to do with the discussion I just had with Mr Ulenbelt. You are looking in this law to maximise the impact and at the same time to minimise the administrative burden and entrepreneurial fear that may arise from the bona fide employers. In this context you can see that the bottom two links in the chain are the most miserable. There we see the constructions that Mr Van Ojik just described. There we see the poignant examples we know. This means that you can use that joint and several liability very well. If you move into the position of the underpaid employee, the fastest solution can be offered. For the point of view not to organise joint and several liability at once throughout the chain, the argument is that the pressure is indeed there, after all, the client knows that he has to do something to repair the underpayment, but that the client will not be brought directly to justice. So we have looked for a balance where on the one hand there is continuity, but on the other hand there is maximum pressure at the bottom of the chain, at the lowest two links. You could've done it all on a temporary basis. That is the suggestion contained in Mr Van der Staaij's question. My fear would be that you would make the risk of ploof-e.g. and malicious entrepreneurs in the last link very big. That while the client of this e.g. often knows very well who he is dealing with. He stands for the choice: I choose this shady club to take out the final cost or I choose that normal, decent entrepreneur. The SGP also asked whether there could be an inequality between employees with the same employer, because one might work in a chain and the other could not. This can lead to inequality, but it is also an unequal situation. The employee in a chain carries out work through his employer for a third party. The employer is dependent on that client for his income. That is why chain liability for these workers offers this additional protection. Thus, if an employee is not employed in a chain, that dependency on that third party is not there. There are therefore no parties who can be addressed alongside the employer. It is possible for every employee, including the employee who does not work in a chain, to raise subpayment in court. Recently we have seen an example of this at V&D; there was an employer who announced that he would no longer pay what had been agreed. Then you can claim in law that this is still happening. The SGP also asked how we prevent the wrong person from being held liable. The bill stipulates that a client who is addressed can always rely on non-applicability, on disulpation. This is important for every client, in order to prevent him from being wrongly held liable. Hence the answer I just gave to Mr Van Ojik. If a client has done it all neatly and has done nothing reproachable, he cannot be responsible for the payment. The judge looks at the circumstances of the case, for example the place in the chain. It may also take into account the size of the undertaking. Of course, you can expect more from a very large company than from a very small company, especially when it comes to checking and auditing what's going on down the chain. He may also consider what has been done to resolve any observed underpayment. An employer or a client who picks up the phone and is going to do something about it has a much better story than someone who should. I believe that the proposal takes account of the possibility of considering whether there is any culpability or not. That must also be reassuring. Someone can't just be wrongly addressed. That is right or wrong in the end for the judge to decide, but in the explanatory statement we have outlined what a client might think about. What can a principal do if something happens far below the chain? He can make sure that all the links in the chain stick to them by making a contractual commitment. He will also be given the opportunity to persuade parties to pay the wages and otherwise to take corrective action. He can also use links in the chain directly to persuade them to pay due wages. Principal contractors can encourage main and sub-contractors to set up a monitoring mechanism to ensure that the collective wage is paid. They are therefore explicitly involved in countering underpayment. I think it is much better to prevent it than to be called into law on such an underpayment. I should like to join in the exchange of information with collective bargaining partners. Mr Kerstens asked whether there were any objections that the inspection should give suspicions to the social partners instead of providing them. The law says "can," and he asks: why isn't that "must" or "will"? It is established that the inspection in the enforcement of the WML, for example, can transmit signals of collective bargaining evasion to the private collective bargaining officers. If the inspection finds that the minimum wage is paid, but not the collective wage, that signal will be sent immediately. That's up to Mr. Kerstens. The question is precisely the aim of the legislative proposal, namely to significantly improve public-private co-operation in collective bargaining. The exchange of information on the evasion of the collective agreement will be strengthened. In other words, what Mr Kerstens is trying to do with his question is to be dealt with. Practically, a mandatory provision is something you're worried about. There should always be a possibility to take into account circumstances, where that information exchange does not take place immediately. But the intention of the government and the inspection is to exchange this kind of information without delay. We have a mutual interest in this, also in the context of the chance of being caught. I'm coming to the discussion about the transition fee. I recognize that this is a strange duck in the bite. Concerns have been expressed about the immediate functioning of the transition fee scheme for chains that were allowed under old law, but which would result under the new law in an open-ended contract of employment. The contract of employment for an indefinite period shall not be introduced retroactively. The transition fee based on the work history has been calculated on that basis. This has now led to concerns among a number of entrepreneurs about its impact, including on their employees. In part, there is a lack of understanding, because it was apparently assumed that a transitional right would always be granted. In last Tuesday's letter, I explained why we did not choose to do so. I will not repeat those reasons. I have agreed in general consultation to prevent unintended effects of the scheme. By this I mean that temporary workers, as a result of the retroactive effect of that specific change in the supply chain clause, employers and employees have not been able to take this into account in advance, as a result of a deterioration in their position that they would have neither the job nor the remuneration. It is not a choice between a fee or a job, but the effect may be that one gets neither the remuneration nor the job. That's what those constructions were all about. In that case, there is indeed an unintentional effect. That is why I proposed a number of measures in the second letter of amendment. From the Court's first term, I would like to say that it considers, in general, that there is a balance and that it is a balanced solution. Firstly, there is the possibility of postponing the transition fee due by promising a subsequent contract at the end of the contract. This will prevent an employer from having to pay that transition fee immediately. The employee does not lose his right to do so, but receives in return the security of future income. The certainty of continuing the employment relationship is indeed preferable. Secondly, I have opted for a form of transitional right. Temporary employment contracts which have followed each other before 1 July do not count if they have been interrupted by a period of more than three months or the period in force according to the collective agreement. At the same time, temporary workers do not lose all their employment records. That's why I chose 1 July 2012. Thirdly, there is a scheme aimed at promoting the conclusion of a fixed contract. If an employer undertakes to do so, the temporary contracts of before 1 July 2015 do not count if they cannot be added together. Then there is the certainty of a fixed contract. Mr Van Ojik believes that this incentive only works if the amount is high enough. I can't make that assessment for an employer. Mr Van Ojik also wonders how solid a fixed contract actually is. I think that he and I both believe that this represents a great deal of value. Mr Ojik also knows that the protection of dismissal is unchanged, the same grounds and the same protection. However, the remuneration in the event of dismissal and the procedure have changed. The protection against arbitrary, unjustified dismissal is there. That protection can be very valuable to an employee, more than perhaps a transition fee that is limited because it was built between 2012 and 2015. I think it's worth more to an employee if an employer changes to a permanent contract. Have we found a balance in this and have the process with the social partners gone well? I have tried to balance the interests of employers and employees. The retroactive effect remains in terms of the working history of temporary workers, but it is limited. This limitation is such that employers do not have to be deterred from rehiring these people. The conclusion of a fixed contract which provides more security for an employee is encouraged. Mr Van Weyenberg asks: is it going to work? I assume so, but it does depend on the way employers deal with it. Employers have an interest in being able to hire workers who have been employed for years. The examples presented in general consultation concerned only good employers who wanted nothing more than to continue with their temporary workers. Those employers were helped by this. They can do that. They can use new temporary contracts or a fixed contract, a fixed contract that focuses on the requirements of seasonal work. LTO Nederland has indicated not to find the solution workable, because there is still a fee due. What do we think of that letter from LTO? Let me put it nicely: that letter surprises me. The fact that a fee would be due has always been known. That was agreed with the social agreement, under which LTO put a graceful signature. I am not prepared to further adapt this scheme to the detriment of workers. I believe that if this law is adopted, including this letter of amendment, it is time for all employers' organisations, including LTO Netherlands, to assist and guide the members, the companies represented, in the correct application of the law, to point out the possibilities of employing and keeping people, to point out the possibilities of providing people with certainty and to stop lobbying for free dismissal and for free seasonal work. With the Work and Security Act, we choose not for nothing another model, a decent labour market. I am the employers, who are indeed there, who could be overwhelmed by the retroactive effect of this element, I will not go along with it in its entirety, and I will end with that. Sure, we need to keep the finger on the wrist. If then it turns out that things are not good, I hope that we all enter the offices of LTO Netherlands to explain that they also have a responsibility, that signing a social agreement is not free and that this means that you opt for a decent labour market; seasonal work, whether it is in bungalows or in agriculture and horticulture, will be possible with this law, so go use it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u218	The Minister has just re-explained the considerations for making those three strokes which he mentioned in the letter. I think there's a balance in that. That is also what I indicated in the first term. It should not be the case that these loyal seasonal workers should still be on the streets. I have also indicated this because they have become a very limited retroactive force. However, I would like to hear from the Minister what that finger on the wrist means. Does that mean that we're going to read it in the newspaper when something happens and then we're going to ask questions about it again, or is there any way to get ahead of it, to act faster and actively keep the finger on the wrist? Or does "finger on the wrist" mean that if there are messages in the newspaper that we can all read, something obviously goes wrong?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u219	"Finger on the wrist" is easy to say, but of course there is no monitor or registration. It starts here tonight, at my first public response to such a letter. That also starts with the appeal we are allowed to make on employers. We've come to meet them now. We have found a solution to a problem that has been identified. We don't have to do that. The law is passed and everyone knows it. Then we can also call on them to work on this before anything happens to that wrist that the finger would rest on. I have already seen Michael van Straalen do this on behalf of the SME Netherlands, in relation to entrepreneurs. I really liked that. I have seen the ABU indicate that they can work with this solution. Many agricultural and horticultural workers, of course, work through temporary employment agencies of the ABU. Let all employers now count their blessings and work with them. This is a preventive approach to a finger on the wrist, because there is no automatism for that. This law will never ensure that all employers give their employees a permanent contract. We never thought that with each other. The possibility is now offered to continue the seasonal work and to continue the temporary forces. Take advantage of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u220	The letter explicitly addressed that second reason, that second interest. The minister wrote quite explicitly that he chose the job over the transition fee at the point of seasonal workers. Let's say that doesn't happen what the minister wanted to avoid with this letter. We all hope, of course, that what the Minister is describing will be the effect, but what if that does not happen? What does that mean, "keep the finger on the wrist"? The Minister just answered my first question: I am now going to call on everyone to do the right thing. The question, however, is what "keep the finger on the wrist" means. What happens if we get the signals that the negative effects are there, the effects that the Minister wanted to overcome with the letter? How can you pick up these signals as early as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u221	That's what I'm trying to be very clear about. We are not going to reward bad behavior by reducing the retroactive effect even further or by limiting the fees. We will have to talk to those responsible for this. You can't talk to individual employers about that. To this end, we will evaluate the law as a whole in 2017 on the supply chain clause, but we will have to ensure that it is used in the interim. However, let me be very clear: bad behavior will not be rewarded, so we will have to get to work on this. And no, this is not a guarantee; that's right. It offers some hope that various employers' organisations, such as the ABU, VNO and SME Netherlands, will say: yes, this is something we can work with. I regard LTO's letter as one, yes... an eruption of an enthusiastic lobby that finds its end.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u222	The Minister's solution for the employers in seasonal work, and the letter of amendment he has sent, also affect all those people who have been on these 3x3 contracts in the past, in education, in temporary work and in technology. They were also offered equal treatment in the event of dismissal. They are no longer given equal treatment because the retroactive effect is limited to 2012. Then the promise made by the Minister to the Act of Work and Security has not been fulfilled, but has it been undone?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u223	It is true that in the end we have not been able to find a workable definition of seasonal work and that this general provision has therefore been chosen. Mr Ulenbelt is right about that. It is not the case that there are employees who could have thought before 1 July 2012: perhaps in three years' time, a law will be passed that will allow me to build up a remuneration that is longer than what I get now. Because it's zero. For the future, workers with a temporary contract and permanent workers will be treated exactly the same. Mr Ulenbelt knows that too. He found that a positive point in the law he voted against. For the retroactive effect, it was not foreseeable that that law would have had this effect, certainly not longer than 1 July 2012. Therefore, it is fair to make no distinction between one seasonal worker and the other temporary force.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u224	This means that a person who has worked with a permanent contract for ten years and is dismissed will receive a much higher remuneration than someone who has done the same work for ten years, but did so in temporary constructions. At that time, the Minister promised that I would treat temporary contracts and fixed contracts equally in the event of dismissal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u225	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u226	Yeah, but that's not happening right now. Here a new child with new bath water is thrown away. That is what I asked for, and that is why I asked for the debate to be postponed. I've been asking about numbers. I now get the impression that there has not even been a look at what the effects could be in other sectors.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u227	I do not agree with Mr Ulenbelt. Equal treatment is an effect of this law. It doesn't matter whether people will build their work history with temporary contracts or with fixed contracts. These people are all entitled to a transition fee. However, this debate concerns the retroactive effect of the differences in the old chain determination and in the new chain determination of longer back than 1 July 2012. The law deals with how to improve the treatment of flex workers in the future. We'll make sure of that. We have sought a solution here that promotes a permanent contract for people and that people can continue to work and get new job security and that indeed reduces the unintended effect on a number of employers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u228	The Minister continues his speech. Are you already on folder eight?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u229	No, don't be afraid. We still have some folders to go. Temporary workers are therefore entitled for the first time to compensation in the event of dismissal, and this is the transitional right, in order to avoid a specific defined unintentional effect. They asked about the process and why it didn't work out in the polder. Trade unions are not enthusiastic about the solution, let me be clear about that. I understand that too, because here we have looked more closely at the importance of the employers who had to do with these unintended effects. However, I have also weighed the benefits of such temporary workers. In the case of a transition fee that he does not receive, which would have proved to be fictional, because employers who unfortunately could have avoided it, or with more job security and a reduced transition fee. That would make the trade-off easier. There were trade unions who said: choose the means of collective bargaining. This is in itself an understandable, but also a very risky idea, because the introduction is really imminent and one has to see whether the relevant collective agreements could find a good solution in good time. This in itself brings with it a great deal of uncertainty, both for employers and for employees. I understand the idea and the customization appeals to me, but in this case I do not think I would have really provided the solution requested by the Chamber. There has been consultation with the social partners in the process. That's what I said. I cannot say anything about the positions that have been taken in this regard, because this could harm future consultations, but there was no close contact on this point. I took that into account when we had that general discussion. I have sought a solution in which there is a balance between the interests of the employer and those of the employee. The D66 amendment to point No. 16 is about the Work Foreigners Act. At the request of the Inspection SZW, the worker's identity must be established within 48 hours and a copy of the identity document must be provided to the inspection. That's policy support. The aim is to improve employers' compliance to prevent and combat illegal employment. If the employer has fulfilled that obligation, he always has such a copy at his disposal. If not, it will be very difficult for the inspection to establish identity. This amendment clarifies the purpose of this proposal: to encourage the employer to pursue his identity obligations and to submit the employee's identity document to the SZW Inspection. That is why this is policy support. Questions have been asked about the capacity of the Inspection SZW. I think it is extremely important that we take a tough approach to malicious practices. The inspection works closely with other public and private enforcers to address such practices and impose fines. In order to do this properly, you need inspectors on the one hand, and on the other hand, the laws we monitor must be enforceable. I have made additional capacity available to step up the approach. The resources for this will continue until the end of 2017. At the end of 2013, a special team was set up at the Inspection SZW, which focuses on addressing bogus constructions and supporting collective bargaining parties in collective compliance investigations. In February, I sent the Chamber the third progress report with the interim results of that special team. I think it is too early to draw conclusions about this additional capacity. In the course of 2017 we can evaluate the results of that team. The question of whether additional capacity is needed must then be answered. This proposal has several measures that allow inspections to be carried out more effectively. The inspection now often involves complex constructions, often cross-border, which makes the investigation complex and takes a lot of time. The requirement of a transparent pay slip, the mandatory non-wage payment of the minimum wage and the prohibition of deductions and netting make the enforcement of the WML much more effective. The proposal also makes private enforcement more effective, inter alia through chain liability and the exchange of information. For these reasons, following the adoption of the legislative proposal for our inspection, it will be possible to act more effectively with the existing capacity. This, coupled with the additional inspection capacity already made available until 2017, is precisely on this point, which means that I do not consider additional capacity to be necessary today when dealing with this legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u230	I ask the Minister to confirm two things. Yeah, there's temporary extra capacity. This led to a smooth reduction in capacity in the books. So it prevented fewer inspectors. I was happy about that. The additional capacity referred to by the Minister is only half of the additional capacity in 2017. Capacity therefore does not remain at that level for a number of years. Can the Minister confirm both statements?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u231	The first statement is based on a sort of absolute number of inspectors and from that distracting effectiveness. If you look at it like that, sure, if you only count the dolls. However, we have chosen a special team, in cooperation with the social partners. That team focuses exclusively on its approach. That is indeed additional capacity in dealing with bogus constructions. This law strengthens the weapons of inspection, improves the use of instruments. Sure, that capacity is finite, it stops. This means that you have to check in 2017: what did this result in? Then there is the question of whether the extra bet should be continued or not. Could I use extra capacity? Of course, there is no minister to be found who would deny that. Do I think that with this law we are taking a big step in the more effective enforcement of our labour laws? Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u232	I'm not taking anything away from this law either. I say you gain effectiveness if you have enough inspectors. I mentioned the numbers in the first term, so I won't repeat them now. I simply see that the number of additional inspectors against dummy constructions in 2015 is 36 and in 2017 only 20. I'm still sorry about that. And after that, we're out of money for that at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u233	I didn't hear a question. The Minister can therefore continue his speech after making an assessment of the time he still needs. By now, it's 00.00 hours.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u234	I understand that remark very well. I'll gear up and come to a conclusion. I have two more folders, including the much discussed folder 8. I'm racing through it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u235	Please.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u236	The entry into force on 1 July thus inform the House of Representatives as soon as the vote in the House of Representatives is possible, if the First Chamber approves it. There is also a great interest in this. For example, the transition fee provision will also have to be law before 1 July if it is to have effect. I think that the groups in this Chamber that attach this will undoubtedly discuss this with colleagues on the other side. How can we assess in due course whether the law is effective? We're gonna review the law in three years. In addition, every year we monitor how the law works out and how the different parts work out. In the next few days, we're gonna set up the monitor and the evaluation. The precise effect of this has not yet been established, but I will send it to the Chamber. We'll be able to see what the effect of the law will be. Examples have been asked for in which the government itself is a transgressor in the monitor. Every year, we monitor the impact of the law. We'll make public what the inspection finds. That means we'll also make it public when the government's gone wrong. Each offense is too much, regardless of whether it is committed by a private or a public client or employer. Effectiveness of the law and the conditions for it are part of the evaluation, as I have already promised Mr Kerstens. The bill is an important step towards a good labour market, but of course it is not ready and it is not the only one. The WML needs to be revised. We have the interdepartmental policy investigation into the position of thezzp'ers. Finally, there is the EU with the European agenda. The presidency of the Netherlands will be dominated by decent work and a decent labour market. I am building a coalition of countries to amend the Detachment Directive. It is good news that the new Commissioner, including at the request of the Netherlands, has promised a rapid evaluation of that directive. It should be there this year, so that it can be included in the presidency next year. It is really a very important element in the fight against unfair competition on wages. Heerma and Schouten asked a question about new constructions. I very much agree with them. We need to stay alert on that. We tackle a number of existing constructions here, we improve enforcement, we strengthen the position of employees and we close the grid, but of course it is conceivable that new constructions will arise, which we do not yet have any idea about. That is why we must have the firm intention of making these new constructions impossible again. That must be our commitment. If I have listened carefully to the first term of the Chamber, there is also a great deal of support for it. We all know that you can never rule it out one hundred percent, but we are taking an important step today. Does this law itself force employees into the unwantedzzp-ship? At the heart of the law is that workers receive what they are entitled to. So they don't become more expensive; they stay equally expensive. The law regulates that there are safeguards in situations where that goes wrong. We certainly need to look at the pressure to engagezzp'ers, the bogus self-employed and the 50 shades of greyness at the bottom of the labour market. We are also looking at this, including the level playing field in indirect tax subsidies for labour costs at the bottom. Of course, it would be wonderful if we could manage to reduce the burden on labour at the bottom, because that is a cost difference that you can see now. No, I don't think this law will have that effect so much, but we have to be alert about it. I fully understand and agree with that warning.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u237	I think the Minister is playing down two things a little bit. Firstly, he says that it does not make an employee cheaper and that we have the minimum wage as the norm. But for azzp'er there is no need to pay contributions, for example about incapacity for work. Does the Minister recognize that? So there's definitely an upward pressure on that. Secondly, thezzp'er will not be covered by this law. It is our greatest fear that this will be a trigger for an employer to look at such a construction. Is the Minister prepared to keep his finger on the wrist at a faster rate?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u238	I'm the last one to trivialize the problem of bogus self-employment and running into zzp structures. That's not what I was trying to do with my answer. Absolutely not. I think it's a big problem, but there are shades in it. You have false self-employment and you have independence that is motivated by cost differences, which do not always involve false self-employment. Both subjects deserve our attention. For the first subject the BGL, effective enforcement by the Tax Administration and alert are important on this kind of new sham constructions. Indeed, the second issue has much more to do with cost differences, partly due to the tax treatment ofzzp'ers. You can't solve it with this law. This law sees the contract of employment and the wage and does not solve that problem. Haste and urgency are needed in the fight against false self-employment. I very much agree with Mrs Schouten.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u239	Once again, how is the Minister going to shape this almost concretely? There's an ibo coming. That's a lot of paper. In the meantime, this law goes into effect. It just needs to be maintained. That was also our cri du coeur towards the inspection. The Minister has just gone into that. Is he going to make an increased bet to see if that's what's happening right now? I would like to clarify that more clearly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u240	Again, when it comes to the position of the boguszzp'er in this law, the legal presumption of a contract of employment applies. We're gonna make that easier. The Minister of Justice is preparing a proposal which will make it easier for a bogus self-employed person to invoke it. Indeed, an ibo is needed to be effective to separate the chaff from the choir at zzp. It'll be for the summer. We'll make it quick. I have the same ambition as Mrs Schouten. If you assume realzzp'ers, it makes sense that this law doesn't apply to that. It is strange to hold an entrepreneur liable for the payment of another entrepreneur to another entrepreneur. Then you get a very strange figure, even in civil law. The justification for the special treatment of the employee does not apply to real workers. If it is a false self-employed person, of course it is. In doing so, we must make it possible to invoke the legal presumption of the employment contract, so that it is also punished. Another problem is that in some sectors there is certainly general pressure on the use ofzzp'ers, who might not actually opt for entrepreneurship at all, but because of that cost advantage. You're not gonna solve that with this law. It's gonna have to be through that ibo.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u241	We're finally at folder eight. I want to broaden it a little bit. I spoke in my term of office about evildoers and new constructions. The minister says we're gonna take care of it, too. There's a part of my concern there, too. I'm not so worried about this WAS, but I'm worried about the law that follows it. The Minister acknowledges that evildoers are going to come up with something new. Are we going to do something like the Fraud Act, which has led to bureaucracy and high penalties for the good people, while the evil ones are not being caught? Under the Fraud Act, the municipalities already called out that the chance was the problem and not that the law was not strict enough. When you see that these new phony constructions are coming, for example in the form of foreign bvs and zzp'ers, isn't the answer that you need enforcement capacity? The inspection must have more people, to have time and space to dive deep into those structures instead of a WAS-2, possibly making the same mistake as we made under the Fraud Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u242	It is quite extraordinary that I have to answer for errors with WAS-2 that we are not going to make of course. We're gonna do that in a good way, taking into account all the lessons we learn. I do believe that, through chain liability, false self-employment is creating an enormous interest, perhaps greater than under the current law, in appealing to false self-employment as well. It may also be important for a union to assist a boguszzp'er in invoking the legal presumption of a contract of employment, because with that you can also appeal to the client, who might have known. This also applies to the use of foreign bvs. At the moment links are used to avoid liability, you can already assume a lack of non-applicability and so you can appeal to another. I think this law offers an instrument against that. He is no solution to all ills, nor to all evil plans of evildoers. Of course not. We're not done yet. We need to review the WML and we need to move forward in Europe, but in the case of false self-employment, the law can certainly help. Then it may become more attractive to do something with it than it is now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u243	I wasn't trying to blame the Minister for a mistake that hasn't been made yet. If I've given you that impression, I apologize. I was trying to warn against the risk that, out of frustration with new phony constructions, where a small minority has discovered a loophole again, with that inconvenience, we will continue to work on laws and possibly make the same mistakes. When we see this, my question is whether it is better to say that there must be more inspection capacity to grab the real evildoers, who find a new loophole or a new design under every law, by the scraps.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u244	We must assume that the real criminals do not look at this debate and think that they should not have done so. They'll keep looking for ways to exploit people and screw things up. The effect of this law will be great especially on the good guys and on those who may want a little bit of good, but not every day. They get a strong incentive to behave properly. There will undoubtedly be people inventing new constructions. We will have to come up with solutions for this. We will have to have the discipline to look for an effective instrument and to look for it for just as long until it is effective. I believe that we, as legislators, have the task of setting a very clear standard and then continuing to look at what is happening in practice. More inspection capacity is certainly always welcome, precisely because we have switched to risk-driven inspection. Every time, just in line with Mr Heerma's reasoning, we look at where people are going, where the waterbed is pushing the real criminal, where the big things are. We don't have as many violations as we can, we want to go after them. I want to use the capacity of my inspection staff to do so. They are very pleased with this law. They were referred back by the court to the clearing cases in the context of the WML. Come on, everybody, quiet down. A letter came to the Chamber. My inspection staff are enthusiastic about the restraining order; they say that this makes it much easier for them to do something about it. But they also know that it will not stop there. It'll give them extra strength. Of course, the more inspectors, the better; no misunderstanding about that. But we've got that extra team and we're going risk-driven. Look, for an individual bogus self-employed person who has to address his own employer, it's a lot of work. With this law it might be interesting, and I would welcome that to unpack a few, to show that they do not belong in the chain and to inform the main contractors that there is underpayment. He'd say, "That's an entrepreneur, isn't it?" We would answer: no, here is a legal presumption of a contract of employment. So I actually agree with Mr Heerma: we need to focus our capacity on where the badguys, the bad guys, are going now. This law is really gonna help. Mr President, I think this is a good conclusion to my eighth folder and my first contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u245	This brought an end to the government's first term of office. I assume there is a need for a second term. I think it can be short, given the extent of the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u246	Mr. Chairman. For the sake of clarity, I shall confine myself to two motions and a brief explanation. The first concerns the letter of amendment which we received on Tuesday. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the proposed amendments to the Work and Security Act by letter of amendment (34108, No.10) mean that groups of seasonal workers and flex workers are no longer entitled to a transitional allowance based on the whole of their work history;]] [[calls on the Government to withdraw this letter of amendment,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ulenbelt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34108-17]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u247	Now we have a whole series of Mr Ulenbelt's amendments. I thought there would be another amendment to reverse that letter of amendment. Or is that still on the way?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u248	An amendment to reverse a letter of amendment is a unique figure. This is the only way it can be done. I therefore ask that this motion be put to the vote before the legislative proposal is put to the vote and before the other motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u249	That is entirely up to Mr Ulenbelt himself, but I think it is excellent. I remember seeing that happen. Anyway, Mr Ulenbelt chooses that motion. Then we'll vote on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u250	I've been waiting. I have asked the Minister a great many questions about the impact of this measure in other sectors: in the broadcasting industry, in technology, in healthcare. What's the effect on all those people who've been in revolving door constructions for ten or fifteen years? Those answers didn't come. I've been waiting here for that. I did not wish to table an amendment in advance without discussing it with the Minister. That is why I have come up with this solution. It's not laziness, absolutely not. Otherwise, I would have done it another way. I would like to come to my second motion, which I might easily suspect from the discussion that the Minister might say: this is policy support. The motion reads as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas a self-employed person who has no staff can only declare to his direct client;]] [[invites the Government to examine whether and, if so, how unpaid invoices can be recovered from the client's client and thereby to identify the economic desirability and legal complications,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ulenbelt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34108-18]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u251	For your explanation: I specifically refer here to bona fidezzp'ers. Let me give you an example. The tower crane mechanists in construction have been known for a long time as a large zzp industry. They can work with a crooked employer. I would like to give them the opportunity, like an employee, to move the link up or up the stairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u252	I see Mr Kerstens hesitantly whether he wishes to cause an interruption. You don't have to. You know that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u253	I know, but thank you for reminding me. Mr Ulenbelt has tabled a number of amendments at an earlier stage. They've all been dissuaded by the Minister. He is now tabling two motions and hopes that the latter will be able to count on a favourable response from the Minister. Does Mr Ulenbelt dare to anticipate what he is going to advise his group in the unlikely event that the Minister also advises on his two motions? To put it a little harshly and teasingly: does the SP then take the side of, for example, the great builders and contractors, who also prefer that parties say no to this law, or does he side with the people who asked him here on the Square yesterday afternoon to adopt this law in particular?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u254	In my opinion, since my first parliamentary intervention in this Chamber, I have never given any suggestion to anyone that I would stand here for, for example, Building the Netherlands. So let's get rid of that misunderstanding. Mr Kerstens would, of course, do Working Netherlands a great favour if he did support the amendments, which the Minister does not recommend. That would be a profound improvement in what is in place, and Mr Kerstens knows our party: if a law is an improvement on the existing situation, we usually support it. If the Minister helps me a little bit now with that research with thosezzp'ers, it can only get better.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u255	Mr. Chairman. I must once again resist the need to remind Mr Ulenbelt of the quota law. I still have four points. I thank the Minister for his reply. My first point is about the AMvB about deductions. The minister says, "I'm gonna take another look at it." I like that, not because I think these deductions are a brilliant instrument, but because I do not want to put it at risk for the places where it works and where it can be done and ensure that there is good housing or health insurance. So I look forward to receiving the letter from the Minister before 1 June. There was another specific debate between me and the Minister on health insurance and to what extent you can include it at the minimum wage. This was inspired by the reply in the note to the report. Let me say briefly, but it says that the employer can take his role more widely and take care of the contribution to the insurer; now he can do so by deduction, but that is undesirable; so it will still be possible to do so by collection. Then I thought, "I can't do that anymore." If I understand the Minister correctly, he says: beware, I have written in the explanatory statement that you may include the minimum holiday allowance; since that amount is higher than the care premium, you may include the care premium, but not the minimum wage, but the minimum holiday bonus. Is that how I'm supposed to understand it? This is not what I had in mind from the reply in the note to the report. If the Minister gives that clarity, we might be able to spare him the promised letter. I look forward to his reaction. I saw him nod. About the public authorities, the minister said, you can see where the inspection is going. At that point, my ambition is higher. I want to know what the public authorities are really going to do about chain liability. I would also like to know to what extent public clients, such as Rijkswaterstaat, will be called upon to do so. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that also in chains with a public principal contractor, such as Rijkswaterstaat, there are bogus structures and exploitation;]] [[Whereas the government has an exemplary role to play and should take a leading role in preventing the use of bogus structures as a client;]] [[calls on the government, in the annual monitor on the outcome of the False Constructions Act, to explicitly report on how public main contractors fulfil their responsibilities and on the extent to which chain liability is invoked within chains with a public principal contractor,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Weyenberg, Mr Van Ojik and Mr Kerstens. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34108-19]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u256	Finally. In presenting this bill, the Minister said that it was capacity-building. However, I am not giving up. That is why I am tabling a motion to increase inspection capacity. That does not alter what has already been done with the temporary number of additional inspectors. However, the number of inspectors at the Inspection SZW is still falling. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the False Structures Act will contribute to tackling labour market fraud;]] [[Whereas tightening up legislation has a major impact if, at the same time, there is an increase in the chances of taking action in the event of infringements;]] [[Whereas labour market fraud can be tackled much more effectively if the capacity of the SZW inspection and the number of inspections are increased structurally;]] [[Whereas the number of labour market fraud inspections has been halved between 2011 and 2014;]] [[calls on the Government, in the decision on the 2016 budget, to mobilise additional resources to increase the capacity of the Inspection SZW,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Weyenberg and Pieter Heerma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34108-20]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u257	Mr. Chairman. I too would like to thank the Minister for his comprehensive reply. I have Mr Van Weyenberg's motion on item No. 19 co-signed because, like him and Mr Kerstens, I believe that public clients, public players in the chain, have an extra responsibility. However good it is to hear from the Minister that they are now pleased with this law at Rijkswaterstaat, which is very good anyway, I note that if they had so badly wanted to pay a fair wage in the past, nothing should have prevented them from doing so, even if there was no law before that. I am glad that they are happy with that now, but I am also convinced that it is good to keep an eye on public clients. As far as I am concerned, that motion should be tabled. The annual monitor should also be used for this purpose, perhaps the Minister can undertake to do so; perhaps that is self-evident in order to find out how often it is possible for a injured worker, for whatever reason and despite chain liability, to be unable to obtain his or her right. After all, the guiding idea behind chain liability is that we want that right to be achieved in all cases. We have talked about bankruptcy and other cases of non-applicability. It may be that something is undisputable, but that does not mean that there is a wrongdoer and that also the non-disputable player in the chain may have benefited from the fact that working conditions have been lifted. Finally, I would like to say something very briefly. I would have liked to make another point. It is not the main point of the debate, but I have looked again at this brochure New in the Netherlands, which is indeed available in all kinds of languages. This brochure sometimes refers to, for example, the website of Zorginstituut Nederland (Zorginstituut Nederland), which is also a government institution which is only available in Dutch. It's hard sometimes. The Minister has rightly said that the brochure is already available in many languages. It would then be good if important references were understandable for people who are not powerful in the Dutch language. So that was the background to my comment. Perhaps the Minister will be able to comment briefly on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u258	Mr. Chairman. I have spoken quite positively about this law in the first term. I have heard the Minister express concern that he could lose the support of the parties in the first term. As far as the CDA is concerned, I can reassure him. I have not become more negative about this law because of the answer he has just given in some time. There are two questions for me. Quite a lot has been answered and quite a lot explained, but the Minister started the discussion we had about the retroactive effect of the transition fee with the remark that he wants to keep his finger on the wrist. But on further questions, the emphasis was on the letter of LTO and its appreciation, and on the desire not to reward bad behavior with the further reduction of that transition fee. However, I do not think that was suggested by anyone either. The only question is, precisely because of the second consideration of the Minister, better to have a job than to have a fee. How are you going to keep that finger on the wrist? How can you actively early signal that the undesirable effect the Minister has acted on is still occurring? We should then act, we should not reward that bad behavior, but perhaps at that very moment the employer should strongly appeal to it that this is not the intention. I would therefore like a clarification from the Minister. How does he keep that finger on the wrist? How's he gonna fill that out? There's one point where I keep having second thoughts. That is the amendment tabled by Mr Dijkgraaf of the SGP. I can go both ways with the Minister's answer. You say: we don't do deductions, and we go through AMvB to see in which cases and how it might be possible. Or, as the amendment states, we do not prohibit it, it remains possible in principle, but we are going to frame how it is done and with what limitations to prevent excesses. The reality here is not black or white, because the AMvB is being viewed. My group simply has to consider this amendment, not knowing how it might work for the other option that the Minister stands for. I can see the benefits of that. So can the Minister say anything more about the AMvB? How is he going to look at this and how could you stimulate the positive behaviour of employers through such an AMvB? Can that have any advantages? The Minister has so far been very economical about this AMvB in his reply. This does not concern the appreciation of the entire law, but it is relevant for the vote on the SGP Group amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u259	Mrs Schouten has waived her second term. I call Mr De Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u260	Mr. Chairman. I'll stick to a motion. It has become clear in the first period that the underlying causes need to be addressed correctly, and not just that the back door needs to be repaired when the front door is broken. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the open borders for foreign workers are conditions for labour market displacement and a fall in wages for Dutch workers and for the exploitation of workers from, for example, Eastern Europe;]] [[Whereas 645,000 people are unemployed and more than 400,000 people are on assistance;]] [[Whereas more influx of foreign workers is detrimental to Dutch workers;]] [[calls on the Government to re-implement the employment permit for foreign workers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member De Graaf. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34108-21]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u261	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for his reply. The final judgment of the SGP Group naturally depends on what Mr Bishop and Mr Dijkgraaf think after responding to their amendments. We all believe that abuses need to be addressed, but on the other hand, bona fide entrepreneurs should not be made unnecessarily miserable. That will make the final judgment for us. I would like to come back to one specific point, because there is still a discussion on this issue. How will it actually go with the amendment to item No. 11 on the withdrawal? That amendment, too, sets the standard for us that deductions from the statutory minimum wage are not in principle included, but that it clearly sets out the exception for contributions to the Health Insurance Act and to housing. The Minister says that deductions from the Health Insurance Act are no longer necessary, as this can also be done in the context of the statutory minimum holiday allowance. Indeed, that was not clear in the note on the basis of the report. Is it true that this will be sufficient in all cases? In fact, the explanatory memorandum referred to occasional and small contributions for which the minimum statutory holiday allowance could be used. This seems to be a little more spacious. I'd like to get clarity on that point. Is it not better to make the provisions on housing clearer in the law as well, with an explicit possibility of further framing this rather than introducing a very general exception for commitments which may apparently also cover entirely different categories of housing? In the current legal wording, I do not have the opportunity to frame this. It is only mentioned that certain commitments may be designated at AMvB. In short, is it not better, from the point of view of legal certainty, to regulate this more explicitly in the law, as proposed by the amendment? I would like a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u262	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for defending this law, which deals with underpayment, unfair competition and repression, and for answering all the questions in one go. I am pleased to note that the Minister is sticking to his proposal, does not allow himself to be influenced in advance by the firm lobby of the broadcasting industry in order to allow unlimited deductions and takes account of the fact that it is precisely with these deductions that things go wrong. The examples spoke for themselves in this respect. I think it is fine that he looks at the advantages and disadvantages, as I have suggested, just as he puts the employee's interests first. I welcome the fact that the Minister will also look at the way in which the criteria for serious underpayment are worked out in practice in the promised review of the law and, if so, whether there is any reason to settle matters differently. It is good that the Minister believes that a good contractor should not only do a lot of things thanks to this law, but should also let something go, namely the procurement at a low price. It is a good thing that he, like me, assumes that this will occur less. I also welcome the fact that the Minister is going to look at the possibilities and the inability to extend chain liability to morezzp's, although he has indicated that this is not automatic, given the necessary complications. In reply to my questions, the Minister has made it clear that information encountered by the inspection and relevant to collective bargaining parties will in principle always be passed on to those parties. It is good that in 2017 the Minister also looks into whether there is any reason to extend the agreement on the extra use of labour inspectors. I welcome his commitment to work on plans to tackle bogus self-employment and that he will be a spearhead of the EU presidency of the Netherlands next year of decent work. Finally, I welcome the fact that tonight has also shown that the Fake Structures Act is widely seen as a major step towards tackling abuses in the labour market. Looking the other way, shrugging your shoulders and washing your hands in innocence is over.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u263	Mr Kerstens had also asked a question in the first term aboutzzp'ers and chain liability. I have tabled a motion on this, namely the motion on item No. 18. I had a bit of the impression that this motion also reflected the feelings of Mr Kerstens. Am I getting that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u264	I have yet to take the precise content of the motion, but I have just indicated that I am satisfied that the Minister is going to look at the possibilities and the inability to extend the chain liability as this law knows it to morezzp'ers. The Minister will have to contradict me if I have heard that wrong in his first-term response. I heard he said it wasn't automatism, because it's complex matter, but he's willing to look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u265	That's why I asked for an investigation. I asked to look at the legal complexity and the economic consequences. I would like to table an unnecessary motion, but I do need the help of Mr Kerstens to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u266	I think that Mr Ulenbelt is particularly in need of the Minister's cooperation, because he is going to say something about this motion. I'm also curious what that will be, but I have such a hunch.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u267	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for answering the questions and for his commitment. We have talked extensively about housing and care premiums. This concerns the commitment to identify the advantages and disadvantages, to analyse them and to set conditions, if necessary, and to look at them with an open eye. It has been promised that this will be done before 1 June. My group is very interested in what is coming out of that. We await it quietly and thank the Minister for that commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u268	This brings to an end the second term of the Chamber. The Minister is requesting a three-minute suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u269	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Court for its second-term contribution and the cautious conclusions I have found in it. Thank you for the expert leadership of this debate, which allowed you to have a pleasant debate and a substantive debate. Thank you for that. I'll walk by the motions and the few questions that are still open. The first motion I must advise against. That's the Ulenbelt motion in part No. 17, with the request to withdraw the letter of amendment. Unfortunately, it is not a choice between the transition fee or the transition fee, but the balance between no job and no transition fee, and possibly a job and the corresponding remuneration. In the Ulenbelt motion in part No. 18 The government is asked to examine whether invoices that have not been paid can be recovered from clients of clients. That stretches too far in my eyes. My commitment was to consider whether, for example, in the case of agreed tariffs, in the light of the fight against false self-employment, it might be reasonable to open up chain liability. I have referred to the legal complication that I see in this proposal. This goes much further. This is just about invoices that have not been paid and that you could submit to the client of your client. So I'm gonna advise against that motion. Let me now turn to D66's question on the interpretation of my explanatory statement on healthcare premiums. That interpretation is correct. It is, of course, the case that it could not be enough for people to work much less hours than full-time. In these cases, it may still be appropriate to include this in the AMvB. If a full minimum wage is paid, the holiday allowance is sufficient to cover the cost of the premium. It may be withheld. I do not think that is sufficiently clear in the note on the basis of the report. But if there are fewer hours, there can still be an interest. That question remains relevant, as asked by several Members of Parliament in the first term. I shall go into both elements in the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u270	The letter the Minister is referring to now is, I think, the letter on the AMvB that will come before 1 June. As far as I am concerned, my request for further clarification is no longer necessary after this reply, for which I am grateful.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u271	The Van Weyenberg/Pieter Heerma motion in part No. 20 is very sympathetic, but it is not surprising that I will have to discourage its adoption, for the reason I indicated in the debate. The motion-Van Weyenberg c.s. in piece No. 19, in which the government is asked to report on public clients in the monitor as well, I consider policy support. This is consistent with the purpose of the monitor. I'll leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber. Let me now turn to the De Graaf motion on part No. 21. Let me say first of all that I am grateful to the PVV for the support I have seen in Mr De Graaf's contribution. It may be a scoop, but it is nevertheless very much appreciated. I advise against this motion, but that does not surprise Mr De Graaf. I had already promised Mr Van Ojik to take a look at the reference. With his specification, I can make that commitment more specific. I would like to thank Mr Heerma for giving me, at least in the review, that I did not lose his support in the debate. It remains on the question of the SGP amendment and how to vote on it. The advantage of looking at such an AMvB with an open look is that you could then make further demands on a possible deduction. It is not only about the goals that you mean, namely rent and/or health insurance, but also about aspects such as the maximum amount, quality requirements for the accommodation offered, bona fide house oysters and registration of those house oysters, so that this is easier to check for inspection. If you want to allow deductions, you can add much more quality to it with that AMvB and organise more preventive action than with the adoption of the amendment. That is why I believe that the route I propose is to be chosen. What about legal certainty? This legal certainty is provided by the possible AMvB. That letter must be there by July 1st. This element of the law will enter into force on 1 January. So you have to be able to weigh the pros and cons before 1 July. So you can create legal certainty on this issue well before the law enters into force in the context of the AMvB.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u272	I don't understand what the Minister is saying. The second paragraph of Mr Dijkgraaf's amendment states that conditions may be imposed on the deduction from the minimum wage in the case of or under General Measure of Management. In other words, we made very clear in the amendment the grounds on which there is an exception. We also explicitly state that conditions can be set in an AMvB.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u273	Sure, but it'll turn the place around. The amendment is based on the assumption that retention is permitted on these points, but it can be subject to conditions. I do not think we can answer that question now. You have to weigh the pros and cons against each other, also the disadvantage of the employee's dependency on his home worker or employer. employer. Mr Heerma pointed out in the first place that we are dealing with a ruling by the European Court which may mean that deduction is no longer allowed at all. Even then, it would be a shame if the law states that it is allowed. We submit the legal analysis, the description of the advantages and disadvantages of deduction for those two purposes and the possibilities for further upgrading the quality requirements in the AMvB, to the Chamber before 1 July. I have promised Mrs Schouten that there will be a pending procedure. I think we are better off with that than with the amendment. I fully understand that the amendment also provides for the possibility of further requirements for a deduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u274	Does the Minister leave it entirely open whether he really wants to make use of this general wording of exceptions in the current law? So this debate has not added anything to that. It is still completely open whether or not this is going to happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u275	This debate certainly added something to that. As a result of the first-term contribution, including that of the SGP, I made a commitment that is substantively serious. I did not accept the amendment, but I did promise to look at it with an open eye. This is an effect of the debate we have had here. No, I did not intend to make a letter of amendment, otherwise I would have announced it. I have heard the Court of Justice, which has put forward the arguments for and against those claused possibilities of deduction, not so far as to decide whether or not there will be an AMvB. I will make an analysis in good time before 1 July, after which I will make a proposal to the Chamber on how I intend to deal with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u276	I believe that it has been promised that a letter will be sent before the vote with an explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u277	Mr Van Weyenberg just said that he no longer needed it. I have, of course, made the commitment to the Chamber as a whole, but I am inclined to abandon it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u278	I note that there is no objection to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-11.u279	The amendments, the law and the motions for resolutions will be put to the vote next Tuesday.
