ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for Housing and National Service.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. We know that the cabinet has saddled the Dutch citizen with huge rent increases. Hundreds of thousands of people are getting into major financial problems. They are really squeezed out by the cabinet like lemons, because those terrible rent increases are nothing more and nothing less than flat charges. It is a burden that everyone can spare as a toothache and that is not necessary at all. The transfer of the PVV election programme also proves that. If you remove the money from bottomless wells as development aid, you do not have to strip the public financially at all. I therefore ask the Minister once again to stop doing this. Turn back those terrible rent increases and prevent people from slipping even further into the financial abyss. It gets much worse for tenants than this, unfortunately. Not only do they have to pay absurdly high rents, they also have to wait a lot longer for a suitable rental house. The cabinet prefers to give away social housing to tens of thousands of eligible asylum seekers. As a matter of priority, I understand. Other house-seekers have, of course, checked this out. This is now also admitted by many municipalities. I'm asking the Cabinet to stop doing this too. Stop the admission of all those asylum seekers and stop the priority position they get on the rental market. The Netherlands has long since been unable to cope with continued mass immigration. Also the Dutch house seekers no longer have to pay the price for it. Asylum seekers must be taken care of in their own region and not here. The Minister will say again that he is not about immigration policy, but of course it is not that simple. Immigration problems also affect his housing policy. So I ask him to acknowledge that and to act accordingly. I also ask him to admit that the asylum influx cannot be separated from the affordability of the social housing system. There is a lot of subsidy and therefore tax money in social housing and the tens of thousands of admitted asylum seekers are very often paid rent. With all that money, you could help a lot of tenants who are in financial trouble right now. So I would like a response from the Minister on the point that mass immigration is putting great pressure, including financial pressure, on the rental market. Finally, it must not go unnoticed that many housing corporations are also much to blame. Corporate directors themselves grab tons together, while they lay the bill with the tenants. The corporate sector has been ruined by the misconduct of such directors. That must be dealt with quickly. The PVV will continue to press for this to happen quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u3	Thank you very much. I can now give the floor to Mr Van Klaveren of the Bontes/Van Klaveren Group, but I see that he is not here. I inform the Chamber that there are problems on the trail and that there may be for that reason... He is there! In any case, that is why there may have been some changes in the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u4	Mr. Chairman. Winston Churchill said there's no such thing as good taxes. And he was right. This also applies to the Netherlands, where citizens are being taxed more and more heavily and many people are finding it increasingly difficult to survive. But what do you want with this burden-aggravating cabinet? Most workers already pay more than 40% income tax. On top of that, this cabinet decided to increase VAT, as well as excise duties, insurance taxes, vehicle taxes and even water supply taxes. However, citizens are not only taxed directly. The tax fetish of this cabinet also indirectly increases the burden. The so-called landlord's tax, nothing but a corporation tax, causes a huge increase in the rents. What the Netherlands needs is a tax cut. It's possible. Of the plans of all the groups in this house, our tax plan, calculated by the Central Planning Bureau, provides the biggest tax reduction and therefore more financial air for the people in the country. What our country needs is lower income tax, lower VAT, lower excise duties and, above all, no landlord tax with bizarre rent increases. Is this cabinet ready to finally make efforts to lower taxes and reconsider the landlord's tax?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u5	Mr. Chairman. I can tell you that I have had an excellent train journey and that most of the people who have travelled this route by car have been on the road many times longer than by train. Maybe that's worth considering. As far as I am concerned, I should like to pay tribute to this morning's train journey, especially when I saw all the pictures of all those people stuck in miles of traffic jams.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u6	It's been noted.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u7	Exactly. We have had this debate about five times over the last two months. It is also an extremely important subject. Unfortunately, that is also what we have been blaming ourselves for in the procedural meeting..... the debates and the documents are getting a little mixed up. We will try to give more account of this in our debate agenda. We ourselves, from the Labour Party, discussed in a debate a week and a half ago that the corporations had 650 million more income in 2013 than the year before. 650 million in extra income. Take 50 million landlord's tax off that and you'll still have 600 million more in income than the year before. So the fact that the crisis would be in the corporations and that revenue would decrease is a myth. We have therefore also asked the Minister if he will pass that on. What does that mean for years to come? We can now add that, after last week, we know that interest rates will be structurally low for the coming years. That also means a huge windfall for the corporations. We would like to look at the concept of earning capacity again. That's an important part of the housing agreement. What does that understanding mean right now? Compare this with two years ago when the housing agreement was concluded, but please indicate what is currently the expected income flow for the coming years. I'd like to hear from the Minister about these calculations. We have announced that we will continue the debate. This may have consequences for how we look further at the policies we have developed in the housing agreement. That seems to me to be the time to continue this debate. Then all I have to say is that it is good to hear that for the coming year the rent increase will be much less than in the past year. After all, it's always hard to ask people for more, especially in times of crisis, because that's what it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u8	Meanwhile, hundreds of thousands of tenants are in financial trouble, as Mr Monasch says. The PvdA has made those income-dependent rents possible, which means that tenants are squeezed out. Does the PvdA now say that as far as she is concerned, those rent increases may be undone, given the financial position of many corporations?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u9	I understand that it is difficult for groups to be present at all the debates. We are trying to be, and that is certainly the duty of the large groups. We have discussed what that means. We have said: make sure that the low incomes of this income-dependent rental policy are compensated as well as possible. Hundreds of millions more are also allocated to the rent allowance. Where people get into trouble, the figures show that this is mainly due to loss of work or to private circumstances, read: divorce. That's what you see in buyers. We believe that much is being done on this point through the rent surcharge. We are still in favour of the higher incomes of those who earn more than €43,000 paying a little more. You can see in all the figures that they have lost much less rent than low incomes. We still think it is a fair choice to ask them for something more, especially in times of crisis, especially when there is a shortage in the housing market.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u10	Those rent increases don't just affect the higher incomes. Those rent increases affect everyone, including the lower incomes. Again, the PvdA has made sure that these rent increases are possible. What does the PvdA offer to all these tenants right now? Can Mr Monasch say that he is going to stand up for them and make sure that these weird rent increases disappear, partly in view of the financial position of corporations? Or does he stay vague and offer tenants nothing at all? What is it now?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u11	I think I'm very specific. First of all, next year's rent increase will be lower than this year's. That's good news. Secondly, there is a generous budget for the rent supplement, so that low incomes are compensated. Thirdly, the debate is now under way, and we have asked the Minister about the income of corporations. They seem to be much higher than initially expected. After deduction of the landlord levy, there is 600 million more euros than in 2012. So that's a flairy-looking thing. That's not capital in stones, that's just cash in the greenhouse. We have therefore asked the Minister to pass on this picture. We assume that this picture will look even more flourishing now that we know that interest rates will remain structurally low, which will further reduce the interest burden on corporations.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u12	Mr. Chairman. Social housing is meant to help people with a small wallet to a neat, affordable home. It costs society a lot of money: 3.3 billion euros a year rent supplement on top of the 26 billion guilders we left behind in the sector in 1995. That's money that came out of the treasury and is now in our sovereign debt. This is an important and necessary investment in people who are not broad. That's why these people are being spared. They get less rent increase and part of it comes back through the rent allowance. The house they rent is becoming more energy efficient and therefore more comfortable. But for the VVD this target group does not consist of 34% of the Dutch population. Those who can pay for their own house, we like to buy or rent a house in the free sector. The VVD has waged on income-dependent rent increase to counter crooked housing. That policy is now reflected in the figures of the CBS. Landlords use the opportunity to increase the rents and that is exactly what we wanted. The VVD does share the care about the availability of really affordable homes. Corporations have built too expensive and too luxurious. Those homes need to be disposed of now. That knife cuts both ways. Corporations are free to convert money and above the liberalisation limit there is a real free rental sector in which commercial parties dare to invest. The strength of the message is repeated, but further this debate excels in total superfluousness. We discussed social housing for an autumn and last week we discussed the state of the housing market with the Minister for hours. There was also plenty of room to talk about social rent. I therefore repeat my appeal, and I believe that Mr Monasch has also done so, to choose our debates more carefully, so that we can have a meaningful discussion with all the spokesmen, including the applicant for this debate. Now we are not giving any substance to our controlling or legislative task and we are essentially keeping the government away from its work.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u13	I hear you say you prefer people to buy a house. I get that. That would be nice indeed. But there are enormous burdens caused by this, in my view, very poor liberalization. What do you say to people aged 60, 61 earning around €35,000 or €36,000 a year? These people are too old to qualify for a mortgage. They're not gonna make much more in the years to come. In fact, they are going to earn less, but are still not eligible for rent. What do you say to these people? That they're unlucky?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u14	That's exactly the group of people who get less rent increase than the people in the highest segment. So we're not gonna let these people get away with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u15	You don't mind them, because they're still gonna have to deal with a rent increase. In fact, it goes up every year. This can increase to 15% or even 20% over a period of four or five years. So you don't spare those people, but you burden them to death.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u16	The group you mention is in the milder segment and gets 2.5% on top of the normal rent increase, not 5%.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u17	Mr. Van Klaveren for the last time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u18	If we look at a longer period, that adds up. Those people aren't gonna make much more money, like I said. Moreover, these people are too old to qualify for a mortgage. People 60 or 61 years old don't get a mortgage from the bank. You just said you like those people buying a house, but what do you say to these people?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u19	There's no reason these people couldn't get a mortgage.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u20	Well, then you should talk at the bank sometime.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u21	Mr Van der Linde, would you care to comment on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u22	No. I think we'd do the interruptions in half, but apparently we're doing it in fours.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u23	No, we didn't agree on any interruptions. A debate never hurts.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u24	I just heard the VVD spokesman say he's worried about the availability of affordable social housing. The PVV is also concerned about this. Doesn't the VVD understand that it is inflicting severe violence on the availability of affordable housing itself by agreeing to the arrival of tens of thousands of asylum seekers, all of whom are given priority when getting a social housing, which means that other house seekers have to wait longer for a social housing?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u25	I just said that social housing is meant for people with a small wallet, so that they can be neatly brought under the roof. Asylum seekers are part of that, too, and status holders all the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u26	Look at the facts, I say to the VVD. Tens of thousands of asylum seekers come to the Netherlands every year, all taking precedence over the rental market. Doesn't Mr Van der Linde understand that this is at the expense of other people, including those with a small wallet, who therefore no longer stand a chance? Didn't he hear what the congregations say about that? If he is concerned about the availability of affordable housing, he must help stop that asylum flow. That's what the VVD has to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u27	Your point is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u28	We're talking housing here, not a stream of asylum seekers. So I can't do anything with that. You can't let those people sleep in a porch.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u29	It is time for the VVD to recognise that this huge asylum influx, which is continuing mass immigration, is at the expense of social services, for example...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u30	This is a repeat of moves.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u31	...and the social housing market.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u32	Mr Fritsma! This is a repeat of moves.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u33	I know, but it would help if the VVD would at least acknowledge that connection.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u34	I give the floor to Mr Van der Linde.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u35	I've become a spokesperson living and building. If Mr Fritsma wants to talk about this, he must choose another minister and another spokesperson.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u36	Mr. Chairman. The CBS reported a few months ago that rents have increased by 9% in recent years. By the way, in 2014, rents increased by 4.4%. The highest rent increase was for the group of people with an income above €43.000, i.e. the people who can afford the rent increase. In fact, that is in line with the policy chosen in the housing agreement. The living agreement is meant to tackle the crooked living. The crooked living creates long waiting lists and these waiting lists in turn prevent people with lower incomes from living in one of the 2.4 million social rental homes in this country. This means that not so much the size of the social rental sector is a problem, but that we have a problem with the distribution of houses in the social rental sector. My group has repeatedly raised this problem in recent years. D66 supported the housing agreement, which will ensure that the waiting lists are eliminated. In this way, homes become available to people who need a house that is made cheaper by the government. I've seen that this policy apparently works. It is only right... that Mrs Karabulut wishes to interrupt me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u37	You're talking. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u38	Affordability at the bottom is a legitimate concern, including for those who have requested this debate and who are fortunately still among us, namely Mrs Karabulut. The low incomes do indeed have the right to support the government in order to live. At this point, a number of things go wrong. I believe the stock is large enough. The distribution is tricky. However, the question is why the rent of freed houses is being raised rather quickly. Is there any way to look at that in the future? Mr Monasch has already given an example of this. Can we see if it is possible to achieve a certain degree of graduality in the places where it is most pregnant? Can the amount of rent play a role in this? What other proposals does the Minister have in preparation?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u39	I see an interruption by Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u40	I have a question about the waiting lists. D66 does support the rent explosions. The consequences of this are now becoming apparent. The number of affordable homes is falling by half. The rents are getting so high that the people with the lowest incomes that can no longer pay. What conclusions does Mr Verhoeven draw from this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u41	As I have already said, the problem is mainly caused by the distribution. The Netherlands has the largest social rental sector in the world; there are 2.4 million social rental homes. We have invested in this over the past decades in order to allow people with a small wallet to live well. The Netherlands has thus achieved a great deal. What has gone wrong in recent years is that people with high incomes continue to live in cheap homes. The low-income people end up on waiting lists. That doesn't apply to all of them, but there's too many of them. We must ensure that those who can pay more do so, that is to say they buy a house or live in the private sector. That is not happening at the moment. The rent increases mainly end up at the top of the segment. The policy in itself therefore works well. The only problem is that the people with a really high income do not make room for the people with a small wallet. That must be done, that is social and D66 has always been committed to it in recent years.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u42	I know this story of Mr Verhoeven; that is his defence. However, that defence is no longer valid, because reality is different. The waiting lists are not getting shorter, especially for the people who need social housing. The rents are exploding and the housing costs are getting higher and higher. I repeat what conclusions Mr Verhoeven draws. Should he not see with me that Minister Blok's policy is failing at the moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u43	Mrs Karabulut speaks of "defense." As long as I am a member of the House of Representatives, for more than four and a half years, I have not been in the defense, but I have opened the attack on the waiting lists. During the Rutte I cabinet, which was tolerated by the PVV, who just put on such big pants again, I called myself 'a crying in the desert', because I was the only one who tried to tackle those waiting lists. My group has put forward proposals to counter the crooked habitation. She launched an attack plan against the waiting lists. Those are all plans we submitted back then. Those plans have been largely incorporated into the housing agreement now and you can see that the effect on a lot of points is good. There's a side effect. There is indeed one point that I would like to look at together with Mrs Karabulut, and that is the point of the rapid increase in rents for released homes which, of course, constitute a barrier to the flow of goods.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u44	What about those waiting lists? I can only see the housing shortage increasing, but you seem to have other evidence, other facts. Then can you explain to me what's going on with those waiting lists?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u45	Mrs. Karabulut speaks of a rental explosion. Mrs Karabulut speaks of housing shortage. I think that there are certainly people in the Netherlands who are in an annoying housing situation because they have to wait too long. I think the word 'dwelling shortage' in the situation of the Netherlands goes a little too far. I think we really need to look in a business way at how we can help the people with a small wallet with a lower income to get those 2.4 million homes somehow available to them. What Mrs Karabulut does not do every time, and that stands in the way of solutions which, for example, we discussed when dealing with the housing corporation law in December, is to look in a business and factual way at that hard-working group of people in large cities with a smaller income and with a family, who we would like to let live in a home that they can live in and that suits their needs. That's possible with the supplies we have. It's about the distribution. The SP always says we have to rebuild and everyone should be able to get a cheap house. However, that is not possible, not in the SP's plans, nor in the plans of other parties that are calling out the loudest that things are not going well. And the settlement agreement has brought it one step closer. I would then like to say something positive about the SP. Last Friday, together with colleague Van der Linde, I went to work in Utrecht with former SP colleague Paulus Jansen, who is now alderman Wonen in Utrecht. In Amsterdam there is also an alderman Wonen van SP-huize. In other words, the SP can now also make a contribution to solving the problems in the major cities where the krapping is greatest. Mr Jansen said that 5,000 people come to Utrecht every year and that about 1,500 of them are at the bottom and therefore need help. He said: building is difficult because the corporations are hiding behind the landlord's tax and because the cutting of corporations is not doing enough, so they do not have enough investment space. He pointed out the role of the corporations and the space they have. Furthermore, Alderman Jansen said that the WSW deposit is a tough one. Would the Minister like to go into the issue of these corporations and the issue of the WSW again?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u46	Mr. Chairman. Since the arrival of this VVD/PvdA cabinet, rental prices have increased enormously, with an average of 9.2% in two years. Tenants are really screwed with this cabinet. If this cabinet wants to meet the buyer some more, the tenant really has to go through the pump. Does the Minister recognise the need of hundreds of thousands of tenants for whom the rent has become too expensive because of the rent increases? What is the Minister's reaction to the Central Fund for Housing, which states that the rent explosion is due to measures in the housing agreement, namely the landlord's tax and the additional tax of 1.7 billion structuralally, which reduces the maintenance and renovation of corporations and introduces the income-dependent rent increase and thereby significantly increases the rents? If a tenant moves, the rent may be increased even further. It's called rent harmonisation. And that's what landlords do more and more often. Last year, on average, the rents of vacant homes increased by almost 23%. Imagine that, Mr. President. In other words, people looking for housing are also screwed. How's the Minister going to turn that tide? This minister wants to start the flow and ensure that the number of available homes would be preserved and made available to the people who need it. If you look at the figures, you will see that the number of affordable homes available is decreasing, even halving. Landlords don't have to ask for the full blow, but they do. Almost two thirds of low-income tenants received the maximum rent increase. Looking at income should also mean a reduction in rents, including in the case of rental harmonisation. Is the Minister prepared to make it clear how often rent reductions are actually made? Why doesn't this happen or not more often? It is remarkable that the wealth of corporations is growing. An additional 6.5 billion in rent has been received and over 6 billion less has been spent on maintenance and management. Those are huge amounts of money. It's money that was raised by tenants. Does the Minister also see room for rent reduction, at least not to make rent increases above inflation as of 1 July 2015? The consequences of this failing rental policy are great. We get numerous examples of people who simply can't make ends meet, who have to cut back on their primary basic needs, such as medicine and life. Looking away from the problems that tenants have to deal with is not an option. Is the Minister prepared to stop the income-dependent rent increase? Is the Minister prepared to introduce an inflation-based rental policy for this year, against poverty and for affordability?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u47	Mrs Karabulut spoke about the money the corporations have. They took more money out of rents and spent less on maintenance. Does Mrs Karabulut say that there really is room for the corporations to build in places where this is necessary, for example in Utrecht and Amsterdam, where the two SP aldermen, according to the new policy in which the municipalities make more performance agreements with the corporations, could actually actively steer?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u48	It could be, but it might not be. One is that the money that is in the assets is not always available for expenditure and therefore for construction. So that's what you need to look at. Point two is that it can be quite different per corporation. But it does raise questions for me, for example whether income-dependent rent increases are necessary and whether they can no longer be built. What remains and what the Central Housing Fund confirms is that this is the result of the landlord levy. As far as the SP is concerned, there really is the solution for building. Alderman Jansen in Utrecht and alderman Ivens in Amsterdam will confirm that. If we do not remove the 1.7 billion from the tenants and the corporations to so-called put public finances in order, but invest that amount and commit them to investment with the corporations, this means that new construction effectively combats waiting lists and employment. That should even appeal to Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u49	That doesn't even appeal to me, but to you. Mrs Karabulut says there's room in the finances of housing corporations because of more rent income. That's cash, that's not assets that are tied up, that's money you can address directly. The same applies to what you save with less maintenance. That, too, is directly accessible money. I count on the point made by Mr Monasch that corporations have built quite luxurious and large. If you add these elements together, you can also look at the extra building of good houses in places where it is absolutely necessary, for example in Amsterdam and Utrecht, not overly luxurious with all kinds of facilities that are not in demand, for people with a small wallet who want to enter the city? Well, then there's just potential, isn't there? Then there are possibilities to get rid of that waiting list, isn't there?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u50	The point is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u51	I do not understand Mr Verhoeven's somewhat aggressive tone. It's okay, but there's no need. If Mr Verhoeven had listened to me correctly, he could have heard that I am indeed very curious about where that space is sitting and whether it can be used for building. For me, it is important that a lot of tenants, over 700,000, are really in need, especially the people with the lowest incomes. We see that the rent ratio, that is, the part of the income they have to spend on rent, is the highest for them. We need to do something about that. I am happy to see with Mr Verhoeven whether there is room that is not being used now. Behind this chair, I can't say that that space is there or not. I note, like the Central Fund and Mr Monasch, that savings have been made and that this means that there is money in the books.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u52	Mr Verhoeven, your last interruption. Moreover, the President has no objection to a passionate debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u53	I would like to say to Mrs Karabulut that the tenants are so keen on me that my passion in Mrs Karabulut's eyes is more like aggressive debate. However, that is by no means my intention, because we are pulling on the same side of the rope. It is good to hear that Mrs Karabulut admits that she also does not know exactly how much space the corporations have. I would say: let us look at this together with the Minister. I also think it is very positive that the SP can take the responsibility in a number of places in the Netherlands to ensure, together with the corporations, sufficient homes for people with small wallets. Let's focus on that in a passionate way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u54	What's your point?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u55	Is Mrs Karabulut prepared not only to use big words and language of war and to seek constructive solutions?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u56	I object to this. It went quite well with Mr Verhoeven, but in his last two sentences he puts away my entire contribution as a language of war. My entire contribution is about the income position of tenants and I illustrate it with facts that I didn't make up, but from all those reports. With his final sentences, Mr Verhoeven might open the war against the tenants, and that is not my intention, because I am willing to find solutions with anyone who wants to do so in order to stimulate construction. I would very much like D66 to stop looking away from the problem of affordability, because that is a real problem. This also means that D66 is in the footsteps, because it is not only about too high rents, but also about their consequences: people are making more debt and poverty is growing. Why don't you take the last poverty signature? This shows that poverty is growing in the Netherlands, even though the Netherlands is still a rich country. And what's causing this poverty to grow? Among other things, it grows due to the strong rent increases. Mr Verhoeven must certainly try to find a solution to this problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u57	Mr Verhoeven, you are through your interruptions, but since you are being addressed, you may react briefly again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u58	I think Mrs Karabulut and I agree on the substance. Furthermore, we both have a firm way of debating, because the subject is of great concern to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u59	In my opinion, Mr Monasch was the first of the two Members to come forward to ask Mrs Karabulut a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u60	Indeed, it is becoming more difficult to debate this. Mrs Karabulut cannot do anything about that, because some things have already been dealt with in my first term. I also pointed out at that time that some issues have already been discussed in detail in an earlier debate and that they will be coming back soon. The image is very differentiated. I was in Schiedam yesterday, where the corporation intended to reduce the number of social housing units from 12,000 to 10,000. The corporation isn't gonna do that. She keeps the number intact, because those homes are in an old birder district and there is more demand for social housing. This corporation is also going to invest again. More social housing is being built, because there is demand for it. So the image is differentiated. In order to follow Mrs Karabulut, I would like to ask her a question. She says she doesn't want rents to rise above inflation. This means that the SP also signs for the 5% rent increase in the previous period. This is a 9% increase in rents, of which 5% is inflation. If you also want to get rid of that landlord's tax by making it an investment obligation, it does raise the question of where it is going to get the 1.7 billion from. This amount is partly fed by the rent increase. If she wants to get rid of the rent increase, there's no extra money coming into the corporations either. In other words, how can it impose an obligation on corporations, while at the same time eliminating revenue?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u61	I think it would be a celebration if Mr Monasch were to join me and conclude that the problems of affordability are enormous and that this year we should at least make a mark on the above-inflationary rent increases. If he does, I welcome the outcome of this debate. We have indeed proposed earlier that this 1.7 billion should be converted into an investment obligation. That's possible, because that amount will come back through additional income. It leads to additional rental income, because it means more is being built and therefore more is being rented out. That way you could create space with the landlords. Another idea is to get the landlords to take a closer look at the business expenses. Mr Monasch is on top of that too, even though the landlords are looking at this a bit more. That would never have been our idea. I know the PvdA needs this to make the income-dependent rent increase. However, I would regret it if the PvdA broke the electoral promise. It was also the jubilation story at the start of the housing agreement that the strongest shoulders bear the heaviest burdens. That is what is happening in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u62	Do I understand correctly that the corporations are no longer getting the income, but that they are being imposed an obligation, a landlord's tax, of 1.7 billion? I don't understand, because the corporations already made those investments. So I don't quite understand how I'm supposed to make this story financially. I wonder how the corporations react to it...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u63	They are in favour; they have supported this idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u64	Let us above all maintain the good habit of only one speaker at a time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u65	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. In my enthusiasm I thought: I am right to clarify.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u66	Yes, but we will continue with Mr Monasch of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u67	Qualifications are used as "war," "party" and "enthusiasm." It's ball this morning. It is a matter of whether the strongest shoulders carry the heaviest loads. Yes, that's how I say to Mrs. Karabulut. That is why we have introduced an income-dependent rental policy. Therefore, there is a rent policy of 1.5% above inflation, with low income being compensated through the rent surcharge. There have been no cuts for two years; other Cabinets have done so. Hundreds of millions will be added. We ask the people with incomes of more than €43,000 to pay some more rent. We think that is a very fair principle, especially if you look at the rent ratio of those higher incomes. I would expect the SP to support that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u68	I thought you might like to call me Madam President, Mr Monasch. Then it's real ball.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u69	It's getting crazy. We would support it if we actually looked at someone's income and what they could and would want to lose, for example according to Nibud standards. Our first point is that this is not happening. It is not looked at; something is simply applied by default. Two: the strongest shoulders certainly do not carry the heaviest loads. Look at the rent ratio of the lowest income: it is almost 30% the highest of all. Three: that the rent is too high is already shown by the fact that the number of people who have to rely on the rent payment has doubled in recent years. There's the danger in that, too. By constantly extending the rent payment, there is always the danger of savings because of the demand over. However, we can move forward. As he already knows, Mr Monasch must do two things. He has to live up to his promise. He must also have the courage for this year to say that we are making a step in the right direction and that we are not going to push people into debt and poverty, we are going to look into it and we are going to look for solutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u70	I have a strong impression that you have had this argument before. I will give Mr Monasch a brief opportunity to conclude. Then it's "next time on."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u71	That is the problem of this whole debate, but if it is on the table, I think it is our job to conduct the debate. We have said: extra rent payment to compensate for the low income. With that, we have granted an election promise. We have also said: there will be income-dependent rents for the people with an income of more than €43.000. That was even higher in our election programme. Why did we do that? We did that because their rent quote is extremely low. At low incomes, the rent ratio is high. We compensate through the rent allowance, and so we ask a little more of the people who earn more than €43,000. Those are two points from our electoral programme, which have simply been properly accepted in this coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u72	Mr Monasch would have a story if he did not raise the rents for the people with the lowest incomes and he would bring their rent quote to a normal level. That's not gonna happen. That's why it's a lot of talk for the stage. It doesn't help people. We have a hotline. From the first reports you can already see that more than a quarter of people say: we really can't afford it anymore and have to cut down on other things like participation. I thought this cabinet didn't want poverty to grow, but it wanted to reduce it. Unfortunately, reality is different.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u73	Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u74	No, Mr Van der Linde was there earlier. I've been paying attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u75	I'm gonna turn to "babble for the stage." Last week we had a general discussion on the state of the housing market, with thick reports to which Mrs Karabulut even refers. But she wasn't there. Then, in this debate, she comes up with some big words as 'blabberish for the stage'. With all due respect, she was half an hour late. What the hell are you talking about? Surely you can't explain to your constituents that you're not there at a general discussion about content a week in advance, but that you do come up with words like this in plenary?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u76	I am glad that Mr Van der Linde appreciates my presence so much. It may also happen to MPs who are people who are prevented by circumstances. This morning I had to take a child to school, but the trains went out. I can't put my kid out on the street. I'm not gonna do that. If Mr Van der Linde wants me to answer to him, I will answer to him. My constituents have nothing to do with Mr Monasch saying 'we think of the people with the lowest incomes', while the rents are only rising further and further. Mr Van der Linde should also be concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u77	I'm not gonna take responsibility to your people. However, I note that we had a general discussion last week and that we had an excellent discussion on this with the Minister. I find it incomprehensible that we are now being accused of 'blabbering for the stage' when you were not present.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u78	Oh, come on. Well, you're getting all worked up now, aren't you? It is chatting for the stage when it is claimed that the people with the lowest incomes are being helped forward. I very much appreciate debates and I am almost always there. There are exceptions, but don't worry: we will still have intensive discussions with each other in the coming period.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u79	Contrary to what some people think, the problems we are seeing in the rental market are indeed related to the enormous asylum influx of today and recently. If it is up to the SP, many more asylum seekers will come to the Netherlands, many more residence permits will be issued and many more asylum seekers will be given priority in getting a rental home, which means that other house seekers will have to wait for a home even longer. How does the SP explain that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u80	Quite simply: we are in favour of a humane asylum policy. We are not in favour of setting up groups of people against each other, as Mr Fritsma does every time. We do not want to say to people who have fled from war, winter and misery to dictatorial regimes, who are killed, raped and murdered in their countries of origin: toodle-dokie, you are causing housing market problems for us. That's not what we're from.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u81	So that's the SP's mistake of thinking. Of course refugees must be helped, but not in the Netherlands. We can do that in our own region. You want to bring them all to the Netherlands. You want to give them all residence permits. Don't you understand that it's at the expense of the common man and the ordinary woman who can't get a place to rent because of it? You say you are defending the common man and the common woman, but you are only defending asylum seekers and other immigrants, and you are abandoning the common man and the common woman tremendously.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u82	Mr Fritsma, you lie and cheat. The PVV does that a lot. It's just lies. You lie and cheat, and you do that all the time. The SP stands for a humane asylum policy. This means that people in the region must be taken care of wherever possible. In the cases where this is not possible, we say: we are a country that does not look away from the world problems, the wars and the misery that they bring. Do you know who's just gonna abandon the landlord? You, Mr Fritsma. You and your party would also have agreed to the income-dependent rent increase and the policy that is now actually being rolled out. You should be ashamed of yourself in a corner.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u83	We're a little out of order on this item. However, the reproach is so firm that I give the opportunity to respond to it. After that, however, we stop.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u84	Lying and cheating? What the SP fraction is doing is just deception. I'm looking at the facts. I see that the SP, like no other party in this Chamber, wants to give as many foreigners as possible a residence permit. In fact, illegal immigrants must also be taken care of if the SP Group is to be involved. The SP doesn't even realize that this is at the expense of the common man and the ordinary woman who has long since been unable to cope with this mass immigration. If you have the guts to say that you stand up for the common man and the common woman, then you must do something about that asylum influx. However, you refuse to do so. You are nothing more and nothing less than a strange activist of a multicultural party that is of no use to the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u85	Poo, poo, poo, poo, poo! Well, Mr Fritsma, you've had your chance and you've completely ruined it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u86	That brings us to the end of the first term of office. I have found that the Minister can reply immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u87	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Members of Parliament who, despite the storm, have contributed to this debate on this very important subject. A number of members of the House made it understandable that we have recently spoken regularly about (the affordability of) living. At the same time, everyone realizes that living is an incredibly important subject. It hits everyone right away. I also realise very well that, because of its reforms in both the rental and the purchase markets, the cabinet has asked a lot of people in the Netherlands and that rent increases are entering the subject of this debate. That is precisely why the rent increases are designed so that people with a small wallet are spared. In doing so, we are tackling one of the major bottlenecks in the housing market: a rental market that has been stuck for years. That is because 700,000 social rental homes are inhabited by people with a decent income, with which they would not be allocated just a social rental house if they were to come forward today. Because of this huge number of start-ups on the housing market at least in a number of places in the Netherlands there are large regional differences sometimes very long wait. I think it is the job of a cabinet, certainly a minister for Wonen, to tackle such a pressing problem that has been going on in the Netherlands for many years. I am still very happy that we were able to conclude a housing agreement with the parties supporting this line, in which we agreed that we would promote both the flow of people and avoid people with small wallets by combining an income-dependent rent increase and more than 400 million extra for the rent payment. The result is that 90% of people dependent on rent payments have an income effect of less than 0.1%. With this you show that you can spare people with a small wallet. The income effects for people with a slightly higher income are greater, but they can pay for that anyway and generally also have the ability to move on to a home outside the social housing sector. In doing so, they make way for the people who really depend on social rent.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u88	These are generalities, but now to practice. The practice is that people with the lowest incomes have lost almost 30% of their rent. That is the highest percentage of all income groups. In addition, the number of affordable homes is halved below the quality discount limit. What is the Minister's response to this? Was this his intention?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u89	I had these questions on Mrs Karabulut's list, but I would also like to answer them immediately. Mrs Karabulut mentions the rental quote. That's the part of the income spent on the rent. She also knows that in the lowest income category, entrepreneurs with very varying incomes play a very strong role. These are generally self-employed without staff, who have years with a very low income or sometimes with no income. So if you look at such a 30% quote, you have to keep in mind that it would be a lot lower if you corrected it to the people who could also call on the assistance. Fortunately, in the Netherlands we do not know any mandatory statutory housing quotes, because people can freely determine how much they want to spend on living. Mrs Karabulut's second question was about the reduction in the number of cheap, affordable houses. I agree with Mrs Karabulut that the primary task of a housing corporation is to provide affordable housing. Hence, with the support of the SP, a law has been passed that says: housing corporations, go back to social housing. One part of that law is that I want to re-introduce the appropriate allocation: people with lower incomes get allocated than homes with the best affordable rent. The Chamber will soon receive a General Measure of Governance on this subject, in which this has been established. Indeed, I think that there has been too much construction in recent years. On average, it was built above the social rental threshold. In addition, too expensive has been allocated. I'll deal with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u90	The Minister therefore acknowledges that under this policy the number of affordable dwellings is simply halved. The Minister announces a measure, but that measure is not yet in place. Is he prepared to waive the income-dependent upper inflationary rent increase for this year?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u91	That question is also on my list; Mr Fritsma asked for it. Mrs Karabulut knows the answer to that question. We've taken a package of measures. Part of this is a rent increase to promote flow. But there is also a landlord's tax, to be levied by the owners of social housing, partly corporations, partly other owners. This tax can largely be levied through cost savings. The sector itself estimates that about half of this can be achieved by cutting bureaucracy. The levy can also be partly levied by disposing of property outside the social rental sector. I think that both you and I would have no objection to this, because it could generate billions. However, this levy can also partly be levied by the rent increase which is also necessary to promote the flow of funds. I do not think it is right, when you impose such a tax, not to give room for that rent increase. By the way, we know from a recent survey among corporate directors that a majority of them say, to expect that they will make much less use of the legal space in 2015, because they feel responsible for the affordability of homes. They also note that the financial need for this is less. It is a legal area and therefore not an obligation. But I'm not willing to scorch that legal space.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u92	I propose that we first listen to the story of the Minister, who has just spoken for two and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u93	I now turn to the questions raised by the spokesmen. I have just answered Mr Fritsma's first question in the interrupting debate with Mrs Karabulut. I don't feel like putting an end to the possibility of a rent increase. Mr Fritsma also asked about the seizure of the social housing stock, by allocating refugees with a status. The expectation for 2015 is that some 15,000 rental homes will be allocated to this group. That's 6% of the number of rentals released annually. That is a significant percentage, but at the same time not a percentage of which you can say: 'that is the vast majority of the stock'. It is a logical consequence of the fact that we have agreed in the Netherlands that people who report because they claim refugee status will be carefully tested for the truth and the content of their story. However, if that test shows that they are right to ask for safety, it is logical that Dutch society also offers them shelter. About 6% of the stock will be eligible this year. Mr Fritsma has indicated that, in his words, the corporation sector has been ruined. In my words: too much has gone wrong, while at the same time many housing corporations have done good work when it comes to housing people with a small wallet. That is also why, with the revision of the Housing Act, which also supported Mr Fritsma's party, I am putting in place a substantial package of tightening-up measures with regard to the quality of directors, their stricter supervision and the reduction of the area of work to social housing. So indeed: too much has gone wrong; that is also why I have acted.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u94	I see Mr Fritsma wants to interrupt. I think we just agreed to let the Minister speak first. That's what I want to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u95	Mr Van Klaveren asked me to stop the landlord levy. He reminded me of his party's proposal to reduce taxes. The task of reducing taxes is, of course, always to find less expenditure at the same time. Everyone is actually in favour of tax cuts. Where this cabinet has already implemented a reversal package of about 50 billion, with, as I pointed out at the beginning, consequences that the Netherlands really feels. I also realize that I think it is good to come up with a package of measures on top of that. But, that's my assessment: I think this would hit society hard. Of the community money we spend in the Netherlands, about one third goes to care, one third to social security, and of the remaining third half goes to education. It takes quite a lot to cut in there, without having very big effects. This will be possible on a number of points, depending on the political preference, but Mr Van Klaveren is making very big steps. In any case, I am not prepared to put a hole in the budget now by abolishing the landlord's tax. Mr Monasch rightly pointed out that I am going to provide additional information on the expected rental income in the coming years of housing corporations. I will send the figures to the Chamber in the coming week. These are, of course, estimates; I am talking to the Central Fund on this so that they can be set off against the estimates made at the time of the settlement agreement and on which we had a debate in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u96	I see Mr Monasch wants to interrupt. I want equal monks, equal hoods. Let's wait a minute. The habit of jumping all over the minister immediately, while he makes a speech... let's move on to the minister's speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u97	Mr Van der Linde pointed out that we did indeed discuss a large number of these aspects last week. Again, you and I love our profession and we both realize that the subject of housing market is simply incredibly important. So I'm standing here reluctantly and with love. Mr Verhoeven pointed out that the figures of the Central Statistical Office also show that the rent increase, as intended, is indeed higher for people with higher incomes. The figures for the past year indicate for the first time that the decline in the number of changes has come to an end in the social rental market. It's still early, but I hope this too is a swallow that announces the summer. Mr Verhoeven also referred to the question of raising rents when housing is released, the harmonization of rents, and the often quite substantial percentages involved. Indeed, harmonisation has increased in recent years. In a number of cases, it is a matter of considerable leaps. Sometimes, by the way, that can be justified. I mention the real existing examples of people who live in a very attractive location for a very long time and pay a rent of perhaps €350, while the apartments around them may be worth more than €1,000, as you sometimes see in Amsterdam. It doesn't have to go directly to €1,000, but it is inevitable that such a step will get bigger. However, if this were to happen everywhere indefinitely, the volume of affordable stocks would indeed decline rapidly. That is also why I announced to the Chamber in April that I would also like to include the harmonisation of rents in the rent payment approach, which we agreed on in the housing agreement. Then it is limited for housing corporations, at corporation level. In this way, the big leaps will no longer occur, or at least have to be compensated by not making any major leaps elsewhere. I also promised the Chamber that I would come forward with these proposals before the summer. As so often with changes in rental regulations, it is an art to align all parties. If that doesn't work, I'll make a decision myself and come to the Chamber with a proposal. Mr Verhoeven recently visited Utrecht and spoke with his and, from my previous profession, also my former colleague Paulus Jansen. That's what I do at regular intervals. Recently I opened with him a nice complex of new rental houses. He pointed out that little is being built. He didn't do that at the opening. As a general signal, however, I cannot immediately indicate this for the Utrecht situation, but also for this: since the new Housing Act places the local authorities at the centre of their position through performance agreements, he will be given the opportunity to do business with the housing corporations there. About the WSW assurance we will soon talk extensively with each other, because I promised the Chamber...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u98	Minister, we also have a public gallery here and people are following us at home, so let's try to avoid abbreviations...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u99	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u100	... and at least explain it when we use it for the first time. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u101	You're right. "WSW" stands for: Guarantee Fund Social Housing. Now I fear that not so many people in the Netherlands know what the Waarborgfonds Sociale Woningbouw does. That fund provides guarantees to housing corporations so that they can borrow cheaper. Mr Verhoeven's question indicates that there are signs that these guarantees are more difficult to provide. Since the Committee of Inquiry was very critical of the role of that guarantee fund, I promised the Chamber that I would come forward with concrete proposals before the summer on how I will monitor that guarantee fund. Part of this is, of course, to determine the scope for the fund to provide guarantees and how we monitor them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u102	I believe that Members will no longer be able to do so. I see a bunch of people jumping up. I don't want to stop it all the time. I will finish my list and give Mrs Karabulut the floor first.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u103	The Minister acknowledges that there is a problem with affordability for the lowest incomes. The Minister also acknowledged that if the house is abandoned, the new tenant will face a rent increase of almost 23%: €100 to €200 per month. That's huge. Then the Minister says: I come with all kinds of measures before the summer. What makes the Minister, who recognizes these problems at the moment, want to continue his above-inflationary rent increase, i.e. additional rent increase, this year? Why, then, is it not a step in the right direction until the Minister's supplementary policy to solve these problems has been discussed and introduced?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u104	Mrs Karabulut mentions a variety of problems in her interruption. The increase in rents in new rentals has nothing to do with the income-dependent rent increase. At the moment there is no limitation on that. The fact that I am announcing a restriction could be regarded by Mrs Karabulut as good news. Mrs Karabulut says in her own words that I recognise all kinds of observations made by her. I'll leave that for her. In any case, I have pointed out that I realize that I have come up with firm measures for the whole housing market, which are also really necessary because the housing market had run aground. Part of this is an income-dependent rent increase, where we can make sure that the impact on purchasing power of the lowest incomes is less than 0.1% in 90% of cases, because the increase is income-dependent and we have an extra budget for the rent surcharges. The Chamber has also received from me an investigation from the Planning Office for the Environment, which literally states that the financial problems, which indeed exist among many Dutch people, especially at the bottom of the income building, have much more to do with the crisis, i.e. with disappointing incomes, than with the housing costs in themselves. I have already pointed out that there are a lot of self-employed entrepreneurs in the lower incomes sector. Fortunately, in 2015 there will be light again at the end of the tunnel, as purchasing power is expected to increase by at least 0.5% at the median. Luckily, we're seeing the economy pick up again. I think the analysis of the Plan Bureau for the Environment is justified. In such a deep crisis as the Netherlands has to a large extent been through, we are in the recovery phase, of course, the incomes are under pressure. That is also why we avoid the lowest incomes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u105	In such a deep crisis, it fits the Minister for Housing, who is responsible under the Constitution for ensuring living for everyone, not to point to abstract...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u106	But, sorry...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u107	I come to my question, Mr President. ... to point to...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u108	I'm saying something to you. What you're doing is starting some kind of second term on the interrupting microphone. That's not the point. You...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u109	Mr President, I think I'm talking about my own question, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u110	I was still trying to say something to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u111	Yeah, and I'm talking to you, too, so we're talking.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u112	Yeah, but it's not useful if we talk through each other. Interrupts must be brief and concise. You keep a very political story. That is what you should do, but in second place. If you have any questions to the Minister, or brief comments, I am happy to give you the opportunity to do so. But not for long political considerations. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u113	Mr President, we are making politics, but, of course, there are rules associated with interruptions. The Social and Cultural Planning Agency says: poverty in the Netherlands is growing, and this also has to do with rising rent costs. The Minister can't say: yes, but I'm not doing anything about it this year; it's really going to be okay; the housing market, isn't that what I'm talking about? Isn't it the Minister's job to care about the tenant?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u114	Sure, and that's why I'm taking out 100 million extra to spare the people with the smallest wallet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u115	The Minister continues.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u116	I come to Mrs Karabulut's questions. She has already put a lot of that in the case of interruption. She asked me how often there is a reduction in rent, probably referring to the possibility offered by the law to waive the income-dependent rent increase on a declining income. I do not have any figures on this at the moment. I do not think they are kept centrally, but the Chamber receives from me annually the state of housing. I will try to give this quantitative information in that too. Mr President, I hope I have answered the questions in the first place.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u117	At least Mr Fritsma has another interruption. That's convenient, because he was second on my list.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u118	That's good, Mr. Chairman. I would like to draw the Minister's attention to the following. According to him, in 2015, municipalities should house about 15,000 admitted asylum seekers, but he forgot to mention that this concerns only the first six months of 2015. I have here data from the Association of Dutch Municipalities, which clearly states that they are about 30,000 asylum seekers throughout the year. In other words, 30,000 asylum seekers are given a rental residence as a matter of priority.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u119	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u120	Doesn't the Minister find that unacceptable to all the other house seekers who have to wait even longer for a rental house?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u121	I have to check the figures mentioned by Mr Fritsma, because the number of people and the number of households can be mixed up. Before I make all kinds of assumptions about that, I think it would be a good idea to put those figures next to each other in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u122	It may also be that the answer is on the paper that is now coming to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u123	It could be.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u124	Let's take a look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u125	If the chairman wants to start a drum roll for that, I can read in the meantime. Indeed, it says on the paper that it is about 30,000 people and about 15,000 homes. So my assessment was correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u126	Then we're both a little bit right. However, the follow-up question is unanswered. Doesn't the Minister think this is unfair to all the other house seekers who have to wait much longer for a rental house?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u127	I already indicated that this number represents about 6% of the expected number of changes in social housing. In our country we assess after a careful procedure whether people rightly call on the safety of the Netherlands. This also includes the fact that these people can also use a social housing if they prove to meet the criteria after the test in such a procedure. Of course 6% is a strong share, but also not so big that the entire social rental market is blocked.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u128	I have a brief point about the Minister's calculation. For the sake of completeness, I would like to say that we are concerned not only with the additional rental income, but also with the lower charges due to the interest that appears to be structurally lower. It's a sum. The burden on corporations is therefore reduced, perhaps also by other things, because we see that the business costs are decreasing. We want the most complete picture, a forecast of the income of the corporations in the coming years covered by the housing agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u129	We will also process this data on the basis of the most recent insights. We are, of course, also doing this in the knowledge that interest rates in particular cannot be estimated too long in advance, but in the short term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u130	Is the deadline for this also clear to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u131	That's gonna happen next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u132	We have all read today how much less Mr Dijsselbloem has to pay to the public debt, because interest rates are falling. The same story applies, of course, to the corporations, so that can be taken into account in the projections.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u133	Yeah, that's clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u134	I'm curious about the plan for the guarantee fund. That's the first element. The other element on which I would like to ask a question is that of the corporations. Especially in the big cities, these corporations are a bit of a black box when it comes to their capabilities. In these big cities, the aldermen and the corporations must work together to find solutions. What can the Minister do with them to ensure that a larger group of people can be well housed there?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u135	We are going to ensure that municipalities get data on the investment capacity of the corporations. These data are based on a number of assumptions, because the capacity of course depends heavily on the policy of rent increases and sales. But within these conditions, we can show whether there is any loan space and how big it is. On this basis, the municipality can therefore have a real discussion about the local housing plan. That's part of the new Housing Act. A municipality can talk to a corporation and say: I see an investment capacity of so many million and in view of the situation in the housing market here I expect so many cheap rental homes to come or do I expect the existing stock to be better isolated. Or the municipality can say: I think it is good that you sell some expensive properties there and there, so that there is some extra investment capacity. In short, we will provide the numerical basis for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u136	Let's take a positive scenario. Let us assume that the Minister succeeds in providing these aldermen with the data so that they can have a good conversation with these corporations. Suppose there are a number of corporations that actually have little investment space, in places where they would have to house a lot of people with a small wallet. Then what are the possibilities? What can we do?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u137	This is all the couple-that scenario. So we really shouldn't answer that. But let's go, as a thought experiment. In order to make more money available for affordable property, the question is what space there is in the possibility of rent increase or the rejection of more expensive property. We know from the national figures that about a million homes are on the expensive side. Again, it must be a local consideration which part of it is retained. However, that is such a significant part that it seems to me that it is generally possible to create additional investment space.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u138	This brings us to the end of the first term of office. Let me look around to see if there is a need for a second term on the side of the Chamber. That's the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u139	Mr. Chairman. I'd like to use my second term...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u140	Can I ask Members to either consult in the hallway or listen to the speaker?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u141	I'd like to use my second term to file the next two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that hundreds of thousands of tenants have experienced financial difficulties, partly as a result of income-dependent rent increases;]] [[Whereas all of these tenants benefit from relief rather than burden increase;]] [[calls on the government to reverse the income-dependent rent increases,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Fritsma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27926-240]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u142	My second motion is next. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the many admitted asylum seekers are given priority in the allocation of rental homes;]] [[believes that this is unfair for other house seekers who have often been on a waiting list for years;]] [[calls on the government to stop the asylum influx so that the consequences are no longer borne by tenants and house seekers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Fritsma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27926-241]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u143	Mr. Chairman. The Minister of the VVD House indicated little in my group's tax reduction plan. This is a sign of the recent aversion to the VVD for tax reductions. He also talked about the cover as if there were no cover. The cover for our plans is, however, neatly calculated by the Central Planning Bureau. It is a budget-neutral plan and therefore costs the Dutch State nothing extra. What we are doing is giving the money back to people through lower income taxes, lower VAT and lower excise duties. We're gonna stop pumping around billions, and so we're gonna stop charging the landlord. This is good for the economy, good for the people and therefore also for the tenants.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u144	Does this mean that Mr Van Klaveren will also stop paying the rent?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u145	It is very nice that Mr Van der Linde is asking that question. It would be nice if he had read the play. That is the only supplement that we are maintaining. No, I didn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u146	But why can't we just pump money around?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u147	There are billions that are being pumped around, apart from what we're pumping around through the rent surcharge. Mr Van der Linde should have known that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u148	I would like to give the floor to Mr Monasch of the Labour Party. He doesn't want to do that. Then I give the floor to Mr Van der Linde of the VVD. He's getting rid of it, too. Then I give the floor to Mr Verhoeven of D66. He's never gonna let it go.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u149	Mr. Chairman. First of all, a personal fact: I have very often waived a second term. I will provide the information on this matter if I so wish. But in this case, I would like to make use of my second term, although I will keep it short. This debate, which some Members consider to be a little superfluous, has made me see a number of things on which we can build on. This is also partly inspired by things I have seen on work visits, including the last one in Utrecht. I think that in many places in the country, through performance agreements, we can get corporations and aldermen to rebuild what is really needed in that particular place in the country. Furthermore, we must, of course, ensure that the distribution of houses is improved. I would be very pleased if the Minister was willing to look together with the House of Representatives at possibilities that would allow us to give that guarantee to corporations more quickly through the Social Housing Fund. On the other hand, we need to open that black box to corporations that say they don't have enough space. If we can deliver these two things to aldermen in the big cities, so that we can get clarity about what can and can't be done in specific places in the country, then I think we can actually take another step towards better housing people. That is what I want to express my hope for, and that is why I wanted to take advantage of my second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u150	I am pleased that my colleague Verhoeven places emphasis on the availability of affordable rental homes, particularly in a number of cities where there is or is likely to be a shortage. In Amsterdam, where D66 is in the college, it is agreed to reduce the number of social rentals from 230,000 to 187.000. That's a drop of 43,000 social rentals.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u151	No long reflections, but please ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u152	It's coming now. Why, then, is Mr Verhoeven now arguing in favour of adding 43 000 houses in Amsterdam? That's one of the cities where there's a shortage, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u153	I thank Mr Monasch, because this is precisely the problem. The total stock can really be down a bit, that goes for the Netherlands but also for Amsterdam. D66 always said that. This applies to the 2.4 million homes at national level and also to the number of rentals in Amsterdam. We were earlier in Kanaleneiland in Utrecht. Alderman Jansen said that this is one of those places many people would like to live. However, this cannot be done because of the investment space of this particular corporation. We should not look at city level or national level, we should look at the areas where scarcity arises and where too little is added. However, in many places in Amsterdam there are far too many social rental homes that are inhabited by people with that high income. They could have moved on to properties for sale by now. That is why I call for tailor-made work at local level. That should appeal to Mr Monasch.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u154	We're all in favour of flow. There is no point, however, if the house left behind does not then become available to someone with a low income. Mr Verhoeven says he is in favour of flow, but in Amsterdam he pulls out the carpet under that policy by not making 23,000 houses available anymore. He can't ask for more capacity for the corporations here with dry eyes, can he?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u155	I can do that, and I just did it. In the debates during the municipal elections in Amsterdam, we have repeatedly shown that it is possible, with fewer social housing units in total, to make better provision for low-income people to enter a social housing unit. With less social housing and a better distribution, you can still house more people in the right house. This doesn't change the fact that you have to build something in certain places and that space should be there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u156	This reminds me a little of Mr Rutte's reasoning, which said yesterday that Mr Opstelten is the youngest minister in the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u157	In my view, Mr Rutte did not say that Mr Opstelten was the youngest minister of the cabinet. I think Mr Rutte has said that Mr Opstelten is the youngest person of that age at 71 years. That kind of nuances, that kind of subtlety in words and in language, I think is important when we talk about this problem. I do not want to suggest at all that there is no problem and that there are no people who have been on a waiting list for a long time. I would just like to suggest that, with a smart redistribution, we can better align a smaller stock with the group of people who really need and are entitled to a social housing. That is my plea, and that calls for customization at district level.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u158	We are through asylum policy and Mr Opstelten... There is a lot involved in this rental debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u159	It's a broad debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u160	Finally, Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u161	I want to make that Amsterdam image complete, because Mr Monasch sometimes forgets something. Does Mr Verhoeven agree that the Amsterdam College said that this is the minimum number of houses it wants to maintain? Part of it is being liberalised. That's private stock and the municipality can't do anything about it. The municipality wants to keep the number of properties mentioned available for the people who belong to the target group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u162	Mr Monasch sometimes forgets something, but he often also says good things. Mrs Karabulut might be right in this case, because she may know the Amsterdam college agreement a little better than I do. She is connected via her party line to the alderman Wonen van Amsterdam. I assume she has a point to make here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u163	I would now like to give the floor to Mrs Karabulut, but for her second term behind the chair.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u164	Mr. Chairman. The College in Amsterdam must correct what previous lectures, with the Labour Party in them, have lost to social housing. Unfortunately, the College also has to do with the national policy which forces municipalities to some extent to liberalise some of the social housing, at least regulated rentals. Especially as far as the private stock is concerned, the municipality has nothing to say about that. That's just for completeness. What Mr Monasch could do about is the need for many people with lower incomes, the tenants, also the middle income. The Minister recognizes two things, and I'm happy about that. First of all, there is a problem. Secondly, we are going to take measures in terms of affordability and availability. If that is the case, and it is the case, then at least for this year we have to put in place the further rent increase. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Calls on the Government to refrain from the income-dependent rent increase and to introduce an inflation-based rental policy as of 1 July 2015,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Karabulut. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27926-242]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u165	Mr. Chairman. Finally, I have a brief question for the Minister. Is the Minister prepared to talk to the corporations to build that space and lower the rents? I know the story of the corporations. The sector says: it's in stones, we don't have that available at all and the landlord levy is rising. Would the Minister at least like to discuss it and inform us about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u166	This brings us to the end of the second term of office. It appears to me that the Minister can answer immediately, to which I give him the floor immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u167	Mr. Chairman. Mr Fritsma has tabled two motions. In his motion in part No. 240 calls on the government to reverse the income-dependent rent increases. In the debate I indicated that I think it is essential to ensure that there is movement in the rental market and that those 700,000 social rental homes that are inhabited by people with an income with which they would no longer have the right to a social housing, are actually going to pay for the value of that property and continue to flow as much as possible. I must therefore advise against this motion. In his motion in part No. 241 calls on Mr Fritsma to stop the influx of asylum so that the consequences are no longer borne by tenants and house-seekers. The Netherlands has signed the Refugee Convention, which means that if people rightly call on refugee status and seek security in the Netherlands, we will also allow those people and therefore we will also provide them with housing. So I must advise against this motion. Mr Van Klaveren once again pointed out his own plan. I didn't say I never saw room for tax cuts. I have said that making very substantial cuts on top of the huge package of this cabinet would have huge consequences in society. Each party is, of course, free to accept or not accept these consequences. For example, the abolition of all allowances other than the rent supplement, i.e. the care allowance and the childcare allowance, would mean that people with a minimum income would lose purchasing power of between 10% and 15%, just over the thumb. That may be a political choice, but the effect will be intense.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u168	We do make other choices. We'd like to see that whole round pump system stop. Whatever we do, and whatever the dramatic picture the Minister presents here, is to build in a duty-free foot that even amounts to €15,000. So the people at the bottom aren't getting hit either. The care allowance can indeed be abolished if you ensure that there is an income tax of up to 22.9%. We also reduce VAT, excise duties and countless other taxes. In our calculations, everyone's getting better. The income disparities will indeed increase slightly, but the people at the bottom will also be better off than they are now with this burden-aggravating cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u169	I would, of course, like to give Mr Van Klaveren the broadcasting time for his own sums, but I insist that the consequences for a number of people will be very great. You can make that choice, but, as I said, its consequences will be great.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u170	That is not the sum of Mr Van Klaveren, as this minister calls it, but the sum of the Central Planning Bureau. So it might be useful to go over the plans sometime.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u171	Sure. Mr Verhoeven was right to point out that in the performance agreements for each municipality, the question should be raised as to whether there should be an adequate addition where necessary. He asked me to ensure that the WSW will give guarantees faster. That must really be part of the debate on how the WSW works. On the one hand, the Committee of Inquiry has indicated that sometimes the WSW has not operated critically enough. On the other hand, I agree with Mr Verhoeven that, if there is room, a decision must be made quickly. Ms Karabulut tabled a motion asking the government to waive the income-dependent rent increase as of 1 July 2015. I've already indicated that I think that's wrong, because it removes the effects on the flow. I do not think it is right for the housing corporations either, because I can put them in a financial position. Again, if they don't need the rent increase, they don't have to go over it either, but I don't want to burn it centrally. Mrs Karabulut asked me to talk to the housing corporations about not using the space for rent increase. Of course, I regularly consult with Aedes, the dome of housing corporations, and also with individual corporations, on the issue of affordability. I think that's the point. I do not think it makes sense to say, when I offer a legal option, that you do not use it. I find that unbelievable. There is room: they do not have to impose the increase. The issues of accessibility and affordability are indeed part of my constitutional task. That is why I am taking measures around the appropriate allocation, in addition to the measure relating to the rent payment. On the subject of affordability, I have a lot on the table with the sector. I promised to keep the Chamber informed in the annual state of housing. I hope I have answered the questions in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u172	I would like to thank the Minister for the answers he has given and propose that the Chamber vote next Tuesday on the motions for resolutions tabled. After the suspension, we shall begin with an arrangement of work and a vote.
