ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u1	I would like to welcome the members, as well as the Minister and Secretary of State for Education, Culture and Science. I would also like to welcome the people in the public gallery, as well as the people who are following this debate at home. I have just agreed with the spokesmen that they have eight minutes' speaking time and that they are allowed to put two interruptions with two follow-up questions. I'll be happy to hold you to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u2	Mr. Chairman. It has been about a year and a half since my colleague Jesse Klaver asked for this debate. His idea was to conduct a major debate on the usefulness and necessity of the test culture in education, sometimes not linked to an incident, so that a reflection without the direct pressure of a specific example was possible. Let us note that we have been overtaken by the incident of the calculation test. The calculation test has been keeping us busy for some time, and so suddenly we are in this Chamber. Still, I'm trying to put the math test in a slightly broader context tonight. The main question is: why did we want to introduce a calculation test? Was it a question of introducing a calculation test, or was it a question of improving the mathematics of secondary school pupils in MBO? Last summer I studied the founder of the Cito test, Adriaan de Groot. He developed the test and in 1968 it became the beginning of the Cito test in primary education. Adriaan de Groot wanted an independent test as a tool for the teacher. The test had to help teachers get a complete picture of a child's development. At a later age, however, he began to doubt the usefulness of his own test, because he saw how that test was used as an entrance exam for secondary education and for comparing the performance of schools. He never meant the test for that. I find this a sad story, but it is exemplary for the way in which we set up education. It seems that instead of putting the child's personal development at the centre of attention, we have rigged up a system that symbolises check-out and mistrust and test-checking, which minimises the professional freedom of teachers. The advanced focus on testing in education has negative effects. For example, the education inspection looks at the results of the final test in primary education, which would reflect the quality of education. We do not think that is the case. The amazing effect of this is that the schools will then see the Cito test as leading their education programme. It's about teaching to the test. The teachers are pushed to teach mainly in the direction of what is tested with the Cito test. Then there is a pressure from society, because because the Cito test is so centralized, RTL News requests the data, publishes the results and makes it a school ranking based on them. We cannot stop this, because by appealing to the Public Administration Act RTL News will also receive this information. It's not just for teachers and teachers, it's stressful. Secondary schools are still looking at the educational report on which the final test is part, while that is no longer the intention, and the final assessment of the primary school puts the opinion at the centre of attention. So it's still alive, as it were. In a recent broadcast of Focal Point it was shown that even Cito keys were illegally traded on the Internet for a lot of money. That's what the mood was for. The Cito-stress is also reflected in the increase in the number of extra lessons. Over the past ten years, more and more money has been spent on private tutoring. It makes sense to guess which category of parents can bring together the money for that. In this way it is almost a piece of privatisation of education. That wasn't the intention of our order. But how are we supposed to do that? Let us use a final test in primary education for which it was intended, namely as a tool for the teacher? Or are we gonna let all these other things in? If that is what we want, let us make very clear demands with which we can achieve it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u3	I'll come back to your introduction. Of course, we've heard this story before. This is a very ideologically applied story about tests. Keys are really just meant to make a picture of a student to measure backwardness and then to do something about it? Why do you come up with this apocalyptic story about keys now? Education can't be without tests. Take a scream like "teaching to the test." I gave 34 years of education; a very large part of it was teaching to the test. As a GroenLinkser you probably don't have a driver's license, but still: if you get a driver's license, that's nothing but paying a lot of money for teaching to the test. There's nothing wrong with that. You learn foreign languages by teaching to the test. It is always brought by you and Mr Klaver as a very perfide instrument, but of course it is not. Measuring is just knowing how to get rid of students' backlogs. What's your reaction to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u4	It seems like you're missing certain accents in my story after all. By the way, I got my driver's license when I was 21. I think it was really about that driver's license that you finally learned how to drive well. That's the essence. Assessment has a function for the individual and therefore not for setting up an educational system or comparing schools on the basis of results. It's a business of its own. I shall come back to that in second term, perhaps even with a motion. We are not going to propose that tests be abolished everywhere. Of course not, and so does Mr Beertema. However, I would like to stress the effect that has gone through.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u5	Keys will be abolished. The Cito test no longer exists de facto. The Cito test was necessary to determine the final level of students so that it could no longer happen in disadvantaged neighbourhoods for example that children ended up on a VMBO, after which that very good VMBO team only found out after three quarters of a year that a student had a language disadvantage of three years. In this way, these pupils were sent to secondary education. A Cito test couldn't do that anymore. What's wrong with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u6	With a language delay you make the Cito test, which is as spoken as I do not know what, incredibly bad, which leads to the same problem if you don't use it properly. That's why elementary school advice is much more important than the Cito test. That is a change that we supported and still support. Now let's not polish the Cito test again through the back door. In addition to the final keynote, there is another perverse effect of the key madness. Let's say a high school student gets a hawk's advice, but in high school, it flows to the VMBO. Do schools have to be taken care of for this? It may be that because of the circumstances the student was equally better off at the lower level or that it was very well tried but eventually failed. In the world of inspection this is called the underbuilding efficiency. Schools are not factories with returns. It is bad if schools deliberately allow pupils to enter a lower level of education, so that they do not receive a fine for this through the discharge efficiency. High-schools are increasingly distrustful of teachers' advice. They're gonna go through that educational report and look at those tests. It also leads to the lower scaling of students, while we know from research that your students who are brought in at Havo but actually doubt about vwo, perhaps better put between vwo-students, because they are then raised in terms of level. That's the kind of effects you get out of this way. Too large a test pressure results in a narrowing of education. This has been confirmed in recent weeks by the Platform #Education2032, which deals with education in the future. The risk is that there will be too much fixation on some basic skills in education. The Central Planning Office recently showed that there is too little attention in current education to the personal non-cognitive development of pupils. The development of skills such as care, self-reflection, perseverance and curiosity are of great importance, as are those cognitive skills. Those skills are hard or hard to test. We call for a broader vision of education, in which not only basic skills such as mathematics and language are central, but also, for example, citizenship formation, creativity and perseverance. They don't fit a Cito test. Education must be more than just focusing on basic skills. How does the Secretary of State ensure that more attention is paid to personal development and skills? Does the Secretary of State agree with us that education should be more than a focus on basic skills? With our plea for promoting broad development of children, we come to the subject of this evening's calculation test. In any case, I would like to congratulate the PvdA Group on the fact that, as it appears, it now recognizes that students are at risk of suffering from this. They suffer because they simply can't get a diploma if they fail the math test. This recognition is important for the course of this debate. I therefore hope that we will be able to conclude the debate this evening in such a way that we can say goodbye to the mandatory calculation test, which fully counts for success and therefore for the diploma. Mr Van Meenen will undoubtedly come up with a motion at a later stage, which we wholeheartedly support in advance. What seems to be happening now in the debate is that we are not going to adjust the calculation test, but possibly just to postpone it. In any case, I would like to make it clear that GroenLinks is in favour of setting up a mandatory calculation test that will enable us to fail. My appeal to all groups would therefore be to go that way now. There are many practical objections to the calculation test. For example, the key is too linguistic, so it's only a question of whether you're actually testing math with the math test. In addition to the practical objections, there is a fundamental objection. The test gives calculation a disproportionate weight. If you don't pass the math test, you won't get a diploma. He absolutes the importance of mathematics and misses other talents. It cannot be that children and young people in their education career are severely thwarted by failure to pass the calculation test. How does the Minister and the Secretary of State look back on the process of the past year? That does not seem to deserve the beauty prize. Teachers, students and schools have been in uncertainty for a long time. Our mailboxes are now filled with extremely compelling stories about the exceptionally bad effects of the calculation key. I would like to leave it at that for the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u7	Mr. Chairman. This could be a very nice day. It's been a beautiful day anyway. I really enjoyed it. It is also a nice day because today we may say goodbye to the calculation test. Before I get there, I would like to endorse what Mr Grashoff said. I could very much agree with that in terms of the role of tests. I would like to say a few words about this. This debate is not just about the calculation test. It is actually also about appropriate education, about tailor-made work, about the role of education2032 and about the future of our education. It's about teachers who want to regain ownership of their profession. It's about how we can get more flexibility and customization in our education. The first thing we don't have to do to make that customization possible is pour out all kinds of Hague unity tests about students. Mr Grashoff has already said important things about the role of tests. Keys are fine. They're very good. That's what I say as a former teacher. They are meant to help the student further and to set his level at some point. That's what's important. You do keys together with the teacher and from there you work again. That's the part. Keys are never meant to pay off, let alone pay for schools. So it is fine, but let us leave it mainly to schools and teachers how, when and in what form they want to test. That is a general remark. You can actually say that there is always trouble when the government decides to take a test from The Hague into the education system. This is always at the expense of the interests of pupils and, by the way, of teachers. However, I am concerned about the students. I'd like to get a reflection from the Secretary of State on the two theories he's taking. One theorem is: I am an ardent supporter of the customized diploma. The second is: I am a fervent supporter of the math test. I'd like to hear from the Secretary of State how he can connect those two. For me, those two are by definition mutually exclusive. A test that is the same for all vmbo and that is the same for the whole MBO, cannot in any way have a relationship with a tailor-made diploma? I'd like to hear the Secretary of State on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u8	When I hear Mr Van Meenen like that, he would prefer to abolish the final exams as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u9	Indeed, certainly in the present form. And so does the Secretary of State, because he wants to go to a tailor-made degree. That doesn't mean there's no final exam anymore, but it doesn't have the current form anymore. Witness his first reaction to the interim report of education2032 wants the Secretary of State to get more connection between subjects, and so do I. Then you'll also have to design the final exam very differently. I'm not saying there shouldn't be a final exam, but it shouldn't be this final exam. This stands in the way of innovation, improvement and customization.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u10	How does Mr Van Meenen intend to measure at what level students conclude a subject? He was right to say that setting the level is also one of the objectives of testing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u11	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u12	How's he gonna do that? For Mr Van Meenen is now saying what the Secretary of State wants, but I am actually asking what Mr Van Meenen wants to do to check the level of pupils in the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u13	We're just testing the level of students. That's what we do in the finals. For the math test, I think that, apart from the content of that key, is entirely the wrong time. I don't think students should be able to count until the end of high school. That's not the time when you determine what a person can count on. You do that at the end of primary school or at the end of secondary school. I will come back to that in detail in my story about the calculation test. However, what the exam is about, compared to the current exam, is the following. Now you're actually saying to a student, you're a havolee, and that means you're shutting everything down at havo level and we're giving you a picture of it. Each student, however, is different. Where we are going, in my view, is that for each part of the exam we determine whatever part it is at which level the student has talent for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u14	Sure, but that wasn't the answer to my question. My question is: how do you ultimately test that level of students? As far as we're concerned, the math test is just a math test. And when I hear Mr Van Meenen like that, he wants to get rid of the exams that measure this way...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u15	No, I'm not.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u16	...and I don't understand that very well. Mathematics, like language, is part of the basic skills of students. If I understand Mr Van Meenen correctly, he would like to take a final exam for language, but not for mathematics.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u17	Well, I don't know if we have a language exam, but I don't think in the sense that the reference levels have ever been devised. There's an exam in Dutch and there's an exam in French. On the contrary, we do not have a language test, because we are integrating language, establishing it successfully and making it part of the contextful content that that language is about. That's the big difference from the math test. Here, a component is made completely isolated and immensely important. I have enormous objections to that, and I will continue to object. This completely ignores any form of customization. We don't say at the chemistry exam either: you know what, we all do the finals vwo and then we see how those havists do it? We don't do that there, do we?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u18	We don't do that on the math test either.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u19	Yeah, we'll do that on the math test. It is exactly the same key for havo and vwo.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u20	Proceed, Mr Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u21	Was this the third time? That's too bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u22	That was the third time, and otherwise Mrs Straus will lose her second interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u23	I wouldn't want that, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u24	I don't think she wants to. Proceed, Mr Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u25	So I'd like to get a reflection from the Secretary of State on the relationship between customized qualifications and calculation tests. For me, they're incompatible. It is good news that after tonight's calculation test for many students will be off the job now the PvdA has also seen the light. Now that that is the case, students on the MBO, the VMBO and the Havo do not have to fear Heel Holland Zakt for the time being. But as far as D66 is concerned, it can be a lot better and clearer: no delay but adjustment, for all students, also on the vwo. Let us put an end to this soap opera here and now, and to schools and teachers full of question marks and frustration, because they really cannot tie any more rope to the rules. Is a 5 enough, or a 4? I even heard a three today. My educational heart is bleeding. Just because the teachers want what's best for their students, we have to stop doing this. But let us put an end to the checkout, especially for the students, because they are at risk of becoming the biggest victims. And yes, it will be said often today: of course, computational education is extremely important. But a test, and certainly of this test, doesn't improve mathematics. The pupils are mostly affected, rather than getting better. We have been overwhelmed over the past year with reports from students and parents who are very concerned and who, because of the calculation test, saw their future fall apart, because they had difficulty with the test, because the questions were unclear, because they could not learn from their mistakes, because tasks were not allowed to be discussed or because they had dyscalculie. Is that supposed to stand in the way of your whole future? As far as D66 is concerned, the answer to this is absolutely no and we are investing in good computational education, rather than in test guidance agencies, which may help students pass the test, but do not contribute to better computational education. As far as D66 is concerned, we ensure better computational education by starting at the base, i.e. at the primary school, and by calculating well in the current mathematics education in the under-school. We only give children all the opportunities for a good future by actually learning how to calculate them properly. You don't need math at the end of high school, you need it in high school. So you have to control it at a certain level when you get out of elementary school and leave the substructure. I have just said it in the event of interruption: it is amazing that you should be able to count only at the end of high school. I hope that we will be able to ensure that students are not constrained by the unenforceable test and figure drive of this Secretary of State, who prefers to put it in a spreadsheet. They just don't fit in. The Secretary of State and the Minister only want to spare the MBO for the time being, but the PvdA also wants to safeguard the VMBO and the HAVO. As long as mathematics is not in order, it is said. It's not getting any clearer. It seems to me to be a bit of nonsense if this brutalized test is carried out only on the vwo, just because the students usually get it there. By the way, about 30% of students with the profile Culture and Society do not get enough for this test. Enough is a 6 for me; that may sound crazy, but I'm a little older and you still think a 6 is enough. So 30% just doesn't pass the test. These students will lose their future in the future. And what are we doing for the kids at the vwo with dyscalculie, who can do so much but really have great difficulty with math, especially when it comes to this math test? We're just gonna trip them? The VVD said yesterday that the Secretary of State would be in charge of mathematics in secondary education, but that there is still a lot wrong on the MBO. I am very curious about the reflection of the rulers on this. Do they agree with these statements and, if so, what explains the difference? I'm closing up. This can be a very good day for education and for the future of the most vulnerable children in particular. That is why I am so glad that the Labour Party is making that choice today. That's a wise choice. I hope, however, that today the Labour Party will draw the ultimate consequence. I'd say bite the bullet, because you're already fighting with the VVD; do the right thing in one go, then we've had it and then you can get back together. Don't delay it, but adjust it for the whole education system, and then think about what we really should do. Fortunately, a lot of good things have happened in schools. We could go along with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u26	Mr. Chairman. I have recently become spokesperson for Education again and I make my entry into the permanent committee OCW because of some shuffling with portfolios within my group. Former chairman Wim van der Kamp once called her the mother of committees, which gave a lot of warmth to the committee. The subject of "keying" also gave a déjà-vu feeling. It is a subject that we have talked about very often in recent years. Often those were heated debates. For me, budgetary treatment in 2003 is still an absolute highlight. On behalf of all the parliamentary groups, including the coalition at the time, I was allowed to table an amendment to remove the so-called kindergarten test, which was committed to EUR 1 million in the budget. The money was made available for policies on educational disadvantages. Perhaps I will see such unanimity in the Chamber again this evening. That'd be great. We have always been very critical of mandatory tests. They are a means and not an end in themselves. Unfortunately, we have seen a great deal of intended and unintentional misuse of tests in educational practice. That is a pity, because it does not benefit education and the children who receive it. Tonight's debate is mainly about the calculation test. I would like to thank both directors for the letter on the calculation test we received yesterday. We've been looking forward to this letter. At the beginning of the letter there was a sentence that appealed to me very much. In fact, it said that the calculation test should be clarified as soon as possible for everyone, especially for the pupils and the schools. "Cleanliness" and "calculation test" are two things that didn't go well together in the past year. The whole process around the calculation test does not deserve the beauty prize and then I express myself very civilisedly. In any case, in the many letters and e-mails we receive on this subject, I find much stronger wording. I understand. Someone even called the math test the Fyra of education. If so, a parliamentary inquiry will take place in due course. For my group, clarity means that we are not going to repeat the entire debate tonight on all the pros and cons of the mandatory calculation test. That debate has already been held several times and I believe that the positions are now known. The position of the Christian Union is also well known: working to improve computational education can also be done without a mandatory calculation test. As far as we are concerned, this debate should clarify what we are going to do. Then we know what the government's position is. We continue with a mandatory calculation test in secondary education and make a pass in place in the MBO. Yesterday it became clear that the acceptance of a mandatory calculation test in secondary education has changed. At the end of January, the newspapers were still convinced that the PvdA was over and that the calculation test was there, today the headline is that the majority is against the mandatory calculation test, also the PvdA. Who else can follow? I do. A small calculation makes it clear that the progressive insight of the PvdA compliments for this from the Christian Union................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... My group would like to add the vwo to that. If the calculation is correct, only VVD and PVV are still in favour, if nothing has changed in the meantime. This can be done in the case of such a dossier. That's why I'm looking at Secretary of State Dekker. I assume he can do the math, too. I certainly hope so. I would like to say to him that he must accept his political defeat. He must accept the political reality that not only the almost complete opposition, but also the coalition party PvdA, is opposed to the rapid introduction of the mandatory calculation test in secondary education. The position is also shared by the vast majority of the educational field. Finally give parents, students and schools the clarity they've been asking for for so long. Stop the mandatory math test in secondary education. It's October 7, 2015. Today could be that day when we are going to take this step.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u27	Mr. Chairman. Yesterday we received good news: there will be no calculation test in education in the exam mbo, vmbo and havo. Students, teachers and parents are free from this monstrosity. Finally, the Labour Party has seen the light and now there is a majority. We expect the government to listen to this majority. I'd like a response. We can no longer leave the students in uncertainty. Only on the vwo the calculation test is maintained for the time being. I don't think that's a good idea. Finish the job now, so I say to Mrs Jadnansing. Delete the math test completely from the exam. I'd like a response from the government, too. There are a lot of costs for this math test in the exam. A wake-up morning newspaper reported about that. Is the government prepared to put these costs together? Let us look at the letter from the Ministry that we received yesterday morning. The Secretary of State continues to insinuate the Chamber with encouraging results, beautiful safety net constructions, escape routes and reports that the recommendations of the Bosker Commission have been followed. He takes everything out of the closet to keep the test up. You could even get a 3 for it, that's how we read in the paper. That's a long way to go. In the letter of eleven sides plus annexes with a total of 158 pages, the Secretary of State tries to convince the Chamber that we are on the right track with the calculation test. For the Secretary of State, the test has become a sacred cow. The test, once designed as a means of raising the numeracy skills, has now become a goal for him. In order to prevent the students from being the victims of his sacred cow, he uses all kinds of patching agents, such as lowering standards. While there is an excellent alternative, he refuses to leave this trail. It's a classic case of tunnel vision. All experts, except perhaps the designers of the test, agree on the only correct solution: include the rethinking of faulty mathematics from the start of secondary school. At the end of the substructure the desired level can then be reached. This is the solution for secondary education that was also suggested by the Dutch Association of Mathematics Teachers. However, the Secretary of State refused to discuss this solution with the Association of Trade Unions, which seems to me to be the experts on this solution. My motion for a resolution was rejected. Why? Because it doesn't fit into his tunnel vision. It goes even further. For this reason, the Bosker Committee was apparently not allowed to issue an opinion on the separate testing of arithmetic as part of the final examination. There were two other points on which Bosker was not allowed to give an opinion because this could jeopardise Dekker's tunnel vision: the weighting of the calculation test in the success/pocket decision and the content of the reference levels themselves. The reference levels are firmly established for the Secretary of State. The Bosker Committee was not allowed to question the content of the levels. If the key meets the reference levels, then the key is correct, according to the reasoning. The reference levels were immediately established in 2010 without a pilot. This was absolutely not the intention of the architect, Mr Meijerink, who felt and felt that a proper pilot phase should have preceded it. Skipping this pilot phase may be the reason why the Cito calculation key, based on the reference levels, is still controversial. Even the math coordinator of the Andreas College, who visited the Secretary of State as a good example school, thinks it is a worthless test. In view of the continuing dissatisfaction with the content of the key, it will be necessary to re-examine the reference levels and the way in which they are translated into the calculators. I'd like to get a reaction to this. There's something crazy going on in education. More and more people are done with the quiz in schools. Not only experts and parents, but also teachers are maddened by the growing settlement culture. Even a majority in the Lower House is done with the distrust of schools. Then how can it go on? Because the government and, above all, the Secretary of State believe in it. He loves to test and check out students and schools. He started his term with the mandatory final test in primary education, also known as the Cito test. Former Inspector Henk van der Weijden rightly calls it "the introduction of a final examination in primary education." It is enjoyment for the media, which from now on schools can pay hard on one grade, the average Cito score of one school. Welcome to Ranking the schools! That you can't possibly bring a school down to one grade doesn't matter. Another plan is the introduction of differentiated supervision. We talked about it recently. In other words, the inspection will enable schools to score enough, good or excellent. As with the mandatory Cito test, this is a means of turning schools against each other. According to the government, schools are like companies: turn them against each other, then they will perform better. The fact that schools and students are many times more complex than a cookie factory doesn't want to be in it. Scores need to go up because of the highly sung knowledge economy, not to give students broad education but to increase productivity. Very uplifting. I make the following proposals to free schools and teachers from the settlement culture. Stop the mandatory final test in primary education, stop the performance agreements in higher education and the MBO, refrain from differentiated supervision of the inspection, stop the perverse incentives in funding, such as the diploma bonus and return agreements and, last but not least, stop the mandatory calculation test in the exam. Now, we've come a long way in that. Then how do you ensure quality? Ensure excellent teachers and teacher training, fund the schools generously so that every child gets sufficient attention, have the inspection checked for quality without perverse incentives and yield fetishism, give confidence to teachers and schools, and only intervene if it really goes wrong. In the Lower House there is a majority for this approach. In fact, the VVD, under the leadership of Secretary of State Dekker, suffers from test addiction. If the PvdA has the guts to let go of the coalition partner, we'll clear the way to education policy without mistrust. That is what Mrs Jadnanansing did yesterday with the math test, and that deserves a compliment. It also tastes like more.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u28	Mr. Chairman. For many months, whole families have lived between hope and fear. Students, parents, school leaders and teachers are, to this day, in uncertainty as to whether the calculation test counts for the exam and, if so, how difficult. It was many months of dread, war and blasphemy. The secretary of state had to and would push through his prestige project, the math test, and the minister stood there and looked at it. What a sad show. Yesterday we received the letter from these rulers and they are out. PvdA Minister Bussemaker is for a calculation test in secondary education. The PvdA party in the Chamber is against it. The VVD fraction in the Chamber throws mud at the PvdA executive while implementing VVD policy. In the meantime, half of the Netherlands holds its heart whether the PvdA spokesperson finally keeps his back or whether she still opts for the PvdA Minister who wants to continue with the calculation test in secondary education. The institutionalized distrust of Secretary of State Dekker is legendary. He really seems to be convinced that teachers have no intrinsic motivation to teach well without his so-called stick behind the door. What a disappointing and cynical picture is that, quite frankly, of the education sector. And students would only be motivating if they were tested. Moreover, that view seems contagious, because that was exactly what Mrs Jadnansing said six months ago and used as an argument why she was in charge of the calculation test. But luckily, she's suddenly healed. Let's be clear: the CDA is very happy with the turn of the PvdA. In fact, I call on her to turn a little further and also to redeem the vwo from this monstrosity.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u29	I would like to talk about Mr Rog's turn of events in the CDA. After all, it was Minister Van Bijsterveldt and Secretary of State Halbe Zijlstra of the VVD who, on the basis of many complaints, found that something had to be done. These complaints came from civil society, from higher education and from companies. The CDA was on top of it then, because it was so incredibly bad with the math and the language. Who doesn't remember that students of the pabo couldn't count, couldn't spell and couldn't read and write anymore? Mr. Rog, wasn't he on top of it? After all, he was already involved in education at the time. What happened in the meantime that led the CDA to change so much?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u30	It is good that Mr Beertema raises this point. It is true that in 2007 we received signals from the educational field and the declining field that failed the computational skills of students and students. That was the reason why the Chamber voted 148 votes in favour of the motion for a resolution, and I say that with a wink to Mr Bishop, I have asked him to introduce a calculation test. And it is true that this happened in the previous cabinet period under Van Bijsterveldt and Zijlstra. They thus responded to the call from the field and the Chamber. That doesn't mean you have to close your eyes to the effects of such a test and the nature of the test itself when you've made that decision. Mr Beertema also knows that this is the reason for the CDA why we have been advocating the abolition of this calculation test for three years.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u31	Then I would like to comment on the following. This Secretary of State and Minister has listened very carefully to all the criticism from the educational field, that polder province of education. All the criticisms have been met. There are, I think, about eleven, and it's still not good. You are still standing here as a CDA man in a very serious way to comb that policy of your own CDA minister from Rutte I. I find it really too scandalous for words.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u32	Now, in my turn, I am a little surprised at this interruption by Mr Beertema. It was Mr Beertema who, together with the CDA and the SP, seriously opposed the nature of this calculation test. That test is soaked with realistic calculations. I remember Mr Beertema as someone who also opposed it, but apparently he thinks it is fantastic.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u33	I'd like to respond to that. I have tabled a motion to divide the calculation key into threes: one part digits, one part context calculation and one part fractions. You voted against it. Many recommendations have been brought to our attention in order to improve it. Do you realise that this is a transition period in which something rather complex needs to be improved step by step? But you don't take the time at all, because out of pure opportunism you just say: we're not gonna improve anything anymore; we're just gonna abolish it, because it's done with the math test.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u34	We are now discussing whether the recommendations and criticisms of the field have been taken up by this Minister and this Secretary of State. Mr Beertema says that this is the case. I deny that, and I state with arguments why this is not the case, at least at a point where Mr Beertema is also committed to it. Now I'm supposed to be behind such a realistic math test? I don't understand anything anymore. Mr. Chairman. Despite all the inimitable and artificial patching agents: the uncomfortable truth cannot be concealed. The calculation key is not good and should be removed from the bag/layer control, in the mbo, on the vmbo and the havo and on the vwo. Although international research shows that the mathematics skills of Dutch students are among the best in the world, it is always good to have the ambition to continue to improve mathematics education. You do that by stomping tables at primary school, learning fractures and making tail divisions, to shreds. But the Secretary of State has, as I said, converted to the realistic-calculation belief, where arithmetic has turned into storytelling, funny pictures and instinct texts. The calculator can do the job instead of the head. On a map indicate where the 30° is, that is not calculation. Watching a clock in a mirror can be a great pastime, but we students can't afford to pay for that, can we? An additional advantage of normal calculations is that we can also remove secrecy and we would have lost a lot less money in the development of tests. With this Secretary of State, however, we are at one and the same time away from the culture of six in education. A 3.5 or even a 2.5 as a final figure for the calculation test may be a sufficient one. As far as the CDA is concerned, that is not a solution but a confirmation of the fact that the calculation test itself is the problem. The CDA has a series of questions. How does the Secretary of State explain the large discrepancy in results for the calculation test between vmbo and vwo? Does he find it acceptable that on the vmbo still only 60% achieve a 6 or higher? How does the Secretary of State explain that the average figure for a school exam on vmbo and vwo varies between a 6.5 and a 6.8, but that the average figure for the calculation test ranges from a 5.6 to a 7.3? Does the Secretary of State consider that there has been sufficient experiment with the ER test and that this test offers sufficient opportunity for pupils with dyscalculie? How does he respond to Professor Van Luit, who states that children with dyscalculie differ too much from each other to develop a single, customized test for them? Can the Secretary of State explain again why he chooses that if less than 5% of the additional fee is passed by the calculation test, a 4.5 for the calculation test is considered sufficient, and in the case of more than 5%, a 3.5 is actually quite sufficient as a result of the calculation test? How long will students remain in uncertainty if they have scored between 3.5 and 4.5 for the calculation test before they know they have passed? How much public money has been invested in the calculation test and what has it been spent on? And can the Secretary of State calculate how many extra teachers could have been appointed for that money? Suppose the PvdA keeps its back straight and that this school year's math test doesn't count on the vmbo and the havo. Does the Secretary of State agree with the CDA that this calculation test should also be deleted from the VWO examination? I would like to know from the Minister how she, as a system finalist, feels about the difference of opinion between the cabinet, which believes that the calculation test on vmbo, havo and vwo can be introduced, and the PvdA group, which believes that the test can only be introduced on vwo? Due to the unnecessarily long uncertainty surrounding the calculation test, there are certainly dozens, perhaps hundreds of pupils needlessly duped. In any case, they are pupils who would have been entitled to the September exam, in which they were only allowed to participate if their file met all the conditions, including at least a 5 for the calculation test. Students who had a lower grade were therefore not eligible for this. Is the Secretary of State going to solve this for this group of injured people, for example by allowing a November exam? The CDA wants to avoid legal inequality for these students because otherwise they would be wrongly losing a whole academic year. To include the math key in a bag/layer control is a wrong choice. It's a wrong test, at the wrong time in the school career and with far too heavy a weight. That's why the CDA wants to get rid of the math test. The CDA once again calls on the directors to discuss with the educational field and especially the Dutch Association of Mathematics Teachers the reference levels and the question of what is actually good computational education. We call on the Secretary of State and the Minister to involve with an open mind the proposal of the Dutch Association of Mathematics Teachers, namely to look at a sectoral approach to the supposed computing problem, and to put an end to the calculus disaster that has hit our country.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u35	Mr. Chairman. According to the applicant for this original debate, GroenLinks, tests are poor. Keying is a little pathetic. Presenting, ambition and excellence are all almost contaminated concepts in that thinking framework of GroenLinks, D66 and the Labour Party. Keying and measuring, determining whether progress has been made in the teaching process, ultimately means that a distinction is made between pupils and discrimination and determination. As far as we are concerned, this is inextricably linked to education and development, but the Netherlands on the left does not want to know about it. That is worrying for many reasons. What is even more worrying is that education itself has embraced this anti-test culture and is thus putting the level of education and development of our workforce at a disadvantage. In our competitive economies, it is tested, determined and discriminated against in life. Excellency is recognized and given a chance. Perhaps I can refer to the recent past; I think the memory in this Chamber is always very short. The legislation for the reference levels of language and arithmetic was adopted with broad support in 2010, by the SP, the Labour Party, GroenLinks, D66, the Animal Party, the VVD, the Christian Union, the CDA and the PVV. The law was passed in both the First and Second Chambers as well as a hammer piece. A hammer piece! That was not for nothing, because a very broad urgency was felt. It was precisely the improvement of language management and computational skills that was needed to raise the quality of the whole education system to a higher level. Parents, business, internship counsellors, higher education: very broad complaints were rightly made that the basic skills were language, spelling and mathematics very low. First-year students at the university, at HBO and even at the pabo had to be trained in that kind of basic skills. At the time of Rutte I it was just Secretary of State Halbe Zijlstra who gave direction to that cry of despair, in our opinion the right direction, together with Minister Van Bijsterveldt. That is where we come from. I am therefore surprised, and many with me, that all the complainants of today, all the road-with-the-calculation callers, can count on so much understanding of the very same parties that seemed so decisive at the time. Zijlstra now calls it very laconically "unwise" and "destructive for children and schools who have prepared themselves well for the introduction of that test." We are talking here about the man who once fought against the lack of basic knowledge of pupils who wanted to eliminate those backwardness. What happened to the act of that time? Where is this ambition, the pursuit of excellence? Can the Secretary of State respond to this, not only as a secretary of state, but also as a VVD executive? I cannot escape the impression that there is a battle of direction between PvdA Minister Bussemaker and VVD Secretary of State Dekker, a political battle which is clearly won by the socialists. This is done with the help of other socialist parties, which is not so crazy, but also with the help of the Christian Democrats and D66, which surprises me greatly. I would like a political response from both leaders, if that is possible. Only the VVD and we are still standing up in the trenches. Many battles have already been lost. During Rutte I a quality beat was used for better education in the Netherlands. Every achievement of that time is now systematically broken down, with the help of the CDA. The Cito test as a matching instrument has been abolished, the hours standard has been given, the class as a basic unit is under pressure, because the teaching time is being flexibilised, and the dreaded kindergarten test had to be replaced earlier. In a demagogic way, that kindergarten test was presented by the left-wing parties and D66 as a kindergarten exam. It's too crazy for words. And now, after an intensive campaign from that left-wing politics and from the educational field, there was a kind of crusade against the math test. It's political opportunism; I can't call it any different. It evolved from a hammer piece in 2010 to a conflict with a whipped ideological charge in 2015. How can the VVD be so buzzed by the PvdA? How did it happen that the CDA was so rigorously converted by the agitprop from the left, that's what I call it? The education sector has already got its way on all the points of criticism of the calculation test. My conclusion is that the field has always been well listened to. Anyone who says it isn't, acts populism of the purest water. People in the real world, out here, find it incomprehensible that we are still delivering students who cannot count on the workplace or as citizens without fault. In a letter to the spokesmen it was said: I want the nurse who doses me my medicine to do this flawlessly. I want the cashier at the supermarket not to panic when she has to give change back. All other exams in which mathematics is present, such as economics, mathematics, chemistry and physics, are much more numerous than the mathematics test. If the test that is now there is too much language, we are lost because then there is not much left. Anyone who stumbles over the quantity in the calculation test can't pass a sufficient number of vo-tests. Perhaps we should start thinking about entering a language test, which would be welcome to me. It pays to get rid of the backlogs that students are dealing with right now. It pays to raise the bar. That's always been the case. It is a sad observation that left-wing parties want to be responsible for maintaining accounting deficits, especially in the MBO. I'm referring to another letter we received today. As far as I'm concerned, this teacher is doing well. She says: what will happen if we stop making the calculation test mandatory? The students will drop out and sit back as at the beginning of the introduction of the calculation test, because he is not required. They have more to do. Young people aged 14, 15 years are not the first priority for calculation. She also says: math is important for the groceries you do or to calculate the discount on mobile subscriptions. Today there are a lot of young people involved in debt. This is because, among other things, they can't count. On behalf of this hard-working teacher, I ask for a response from the Minister. This teacher scores a large proportion of the students; these are vmbo and mavoleerlingen. She's even going to offer her students to take the 3F exam in March. In short, if you do the math as this teacher does, with enthusiasm and challenge, something beautiful happens. That's the way it should be, and for such a teacher I applaud. Finally. The PvdA rewards bad behavior. She does so more often, throughout society, but now very specifically in education as well. The MBO does not manage to get the mathematics education in order. The PvdA then considers that the test should be abolished. It is true that there are students on the MBO, VMBO and Havo who do not yet pass the math test. Instead of making consequences here, for example, schools, a level drop, adjusting the test, it is proposed to abolish the test. You'll get four rematches for that test, by the way. That fact led the PvdA to vote for the mandatory calculation test in January 2015. The calculation key is postponed, probably adjusted, under loud cheering from the left, to which I also charge the CDA and D66. However, after the examination without a calculation test, a course will have to be learned, a higher education or a job must be chosen. Is there a safety net yet to cover all those massively ill-calculated students if they don't find that further education or that job? The critics wanted to be able to see the work of students. We can do that now. More example tests have come up. Mathematics should be much less heavy. That's true now. Students should be given more opportunities to pass the exam. Two rematches were requested and the field received four. There had to be more bare tasks, more tasks without a calculator. It all happened. The field of education wanted to test the choice between written and digital. It is now being considered whether this can be done in practice. The field wanted less complex tasks, especially in the mbo but also in the vo. They're gonna get it. We wanted to get rid of the difference in tests at the mbo and vo. There will now be one syllabus for both and one key for both. Everything has been met, but I still hear here that the field is not being listened to. I'd like to call it a "gotspe."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u36	Mr. Chairman. Whether it's paying for your groceries in the supermarket, following a recipe in the kitchen or planning your trip or holiday, in everyday situations we notice how important it is to be able to calculate well. Of course, this also applies when people are at work: hairdressers, car mechanics, nurses, you name it. It is important for everyone in the Netherlands to be able to calculate properly. At school, young people acquire these mathematics skills, not because it has to be from the master or the teacher, but because it is necessary to be able to calculate well to save yourself in society, because being able to calculate well offers you the opportunity to find a job that suits you later. In recent years, a lot of people have been working to improve the computing skills of young people. Students have practiced and studied, teachers have accompanied them and schools have worked on improving computational education. This commitment has been successful. More and more young people score a sufficient score if their numeracy is assessed. These students and their teachers deserve our compliments. They should be proud of their hard work and the good result. Still, I'm not just proud. No, I'm disappointed too. I'm really worried. I am disappointed because, despite the efforts of all those people, there are still young people whose computational skills are assessed as insufficient. I am concerned because this may hinder these young people in their further development. Worse still, it may mean that these young people will not be able to move on to further training. In schools where computational education is not yet in order, teachers and school leaders should continue to work on improving computational education. They must ensure that arithmetical education is in line with the needs of their pupils, so that the computational skills of all young people can be assessed as sufficient. How are the Minister and the Secretary of State going to ensure that arithmetical education is improved in those schools where it is not yet in order? In what way are students and teachers supported? How is the Chamber kept informed of these claims? I would like an answer to that from both the Minister and the Secretary of State. The Labour Party believes that every young person deserves a fair chance to make the best start in life. If the math test goes into mbo, vmbo and havo, too many young people do not get that chance because they can't get a diploma anymore. As long as mathematics is not yet in order, we, together with many young people and teachers, say no to counting the mathematics test in MBO, VMBO and HAVO for obtaining a diploma.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u37	Again, I am very happy that the PvdA is suddenly against the math test in the vo, at least in the vmbo and the havo. Six months ago, however, Mrs Jadnansing said that she had spoken to young people who said: I am really not going to do my best for mathematics if I have to take a test that doesn't count. What happened to Mrs. Jadnanancing?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u38	Fortunately, after the ruling in January, I spoke with a lot of young people. Mr Rog himself saw the letter from the JOB, which tells us: we want good computational education, we really want it, we just demand it. So there are a lot of young people. Fortunately, otherwise we will have a horrible picture of young people here. I also talked to young people who said: if it doesn't count anymore, that's good, because I won't do it. Fortunately, however, there are many more young people who understand that you need those good math skills if you want to get on with your life, who do see that we need to have that in order. They claim that right to good mathematics, the right to mathematics. We have all promised this to them here. That is why I am saying, together with all the young people who do want to do so, that we must ensure that young people can learn how to count properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u39	It all sounds beautiful. However, in February, when we were discussing this subject, there were letters of fire from parents, children and nine educational organisations. The whole world turned against the math test, and Mrs Jadnansing stood on fire and said that this was the best thing that could have happened to get that mathematics education in order. What happened in the meantime? The numbers haven't gotten any worse. There are more people who get the math test than the figures that were known to us at the time. Then why didn't Mrs Jadnansing opt for postponement and clarity for the summer holidays? The figures currently available and on the basis of which Mrs Jadnansing wants to abolish the calculation test in vo, in vmbo and havo, are exactly the same as for summer holidays.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u40	Everyone just said it's a beautiful day and that we're gonna have some kind of party here. I don't think so at all. In fact, I am disappointed that the hope I had that the results would be good, that young people would be able to count well at the moment, has unfortunately not come true. I am therefore sad to see that today we are seeing that it is not yet in order, that young people are simply not yet able to count well, while it is our expensive duty to teach young people how to count. So I say no today to counting the calculation test, because I think that all young people should have a chance of a good life. This includes getting a diploma to get a start, to get a job. That's why I'm saying no to counting the test right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u41	I do not get a reaction to my remark that nothing has changed since the summer break and that since February, when we last talked about it, it has only improved. I don't understand any of this. Can Mrs Jadnansing at least explain why she has previously embraced the 5% extra standard, while we now know that on average 1.9%, up to 3.8% in VMBO, are going to fall further? I hate that, but I thought it was six months ago and two years ago. However, Mrs Jadnanancing agreed to an additional 5%.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u42	Looking at the results before us, I have come to the conclusion that it is not wise at the moment not to award so many young people a diploma. I also see that progress has been made. I see things are getting better, but too many young people would be sinking through the ice right now. That is why we are now deciding not to include the test for the diploma.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u43	I'm not going to go back to the past, but I'm going to go back to the situation that's happening right now. Mrs Jadnansing makes a difference between the vwo, where she wants the test to be counted, and the others in secondary education where she does not want it to be. If the central goal is to teach students how to calculate better, could you then see that that goal has been achieved at VWO and that the usefulness of a test that counts for the exam has therefore expired? After all, it was not about the test, I understand the words of Mrs Jadnanancing, but about computational education. Shouldn't you then conclude that the goal of good mathematics education has been achieved when the test results come close to what you would like and then decide that that test doesn't have to count for anything or succeed at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u44	We have always said that it is important for young people to learn how to calculate. We see that things are moving in the right direction in the vwo. In fact, almost everyone in the vwo succeeds already after the first time before the test. At the same time, I'm in favour of a math test. I've always said that. I am in favour of young people being able to see where they stand. I have always said that we will include the test results if that is justified. Based on these results, it is justified to include the test results in the vwo. That is the consideration.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u45	I still feel like a circular reasoning is being used. It was a question of making changes and improvements in education in such a way that pupils can count well. We agree that this is still the case in the education column, in primary education, but certainly in secondary education. Shouldn't the conclusion be that the scores now achieved in the vwo show that there is no need to attach a test with a bag/layer control? After all, it seems possible to teach students something without directly linking a hard test to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u46	I stand by the answer I have just given. At the moment we think it is justified to introduce the test into the vwo, because the young people there have achieved good scores and because we are not against a test. We find a test a means to determine where we stand with each other. That is the case right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u47	I'm afraid it's a repeat of moves, but I'm gonna try it one more time in the opposite direction. Could Mrs Jadnansing explain to me what will change reality if we now say that we leave the obligatory bag/low test in the vwo? Does only one peanut change reality?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u48	Now we have the cliff-and-ready. We're clear. We know where we stand. The test makes sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u49	Let me start by saying that I am very pleased with the conclusion of the PvdA. However, the path to that conclusion is less appealing to me. I have a question about that. The conclusion that the obligation to include the bag/lowage scheme on vmbo, Havo and MBO is currently waived is based on the assumption that education is not yet in order. The schools and the teachers there wouldn't do well yet. The VWO schools and the VWO teachers would do well. I would like to ask Mrs Jadnansing whether she really believes that the education in counting on vwo is better than on vmbo. Or is the math key basically just an intelligence test?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u50	In this way we deal with the content of the tests. What should be tested and what should be in those keys? Mr Van Meenen's question is how we came to consider it. We have asked ourselves what we want with our young people. We want young people to learn how to calculate properly. We want them to have opportunities in society and to be able to be guided to a diploma. We see that this does not yet happen in the VMBO, the HAVO and the MBO. I would like to distance myself from the remark that I would have said that the teachers in the VMBO, the HAVO and the MBO are not doing their best at this point. We see a great deal of effort being made there. That's what I said. I give a compliment to the schools that are doing very well. Only we see that it is not good enough yet and that too many young people are still at risk of falling through the ice. That is why we do not want to enter the test in the vmbo, the mbo and the havo, but in the vwo, where things are going well.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u51	Does Mrs Jadnansing agree with me that in the vwo in full width things may be going well, but not in all profiles? In my contribution I mentioned the profile culture and society. A small 30% of the students within that profile don't pass the test. Those students, too, are entitled to a future, aren't they? Why does Mrs Jadnansing not pursue her reasoning, at least towards the profile culture and society? There, large groups of students will not get their diploma in the future. Why doesn't she bite through the sour apple at once and say that it's just not all right in general? It's not okay at a school with a vmbo, a havo and a vwo department, where a number of vwo students just happen to pass the test. Yeah, that makes sense, 'cause it's the same test the havolates do. Why doesn't Mrs Jadnansing come to the conclusion that a pass should also be made at the VWO? So let's look at the background very carefully. Why do students with a profile culture and society not pass that test massively? After that, we can eventually continue the line of the PvdA to make that key mandatory.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u52	Now that test didn't count. Nevertheless, there are already very good results in the vwo. I expect that, if we make any further efforts in the vwo, there will be no problems on the vwo.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u53	It is a pity that Mrs Jadnansing wants to take that risk for this group of students at VWO, including the pupils with dyscalculie. I have one other question, namely about the requirement in 4 mbo for transit to the HBO, namely that a 5 for the calculation test should be obtained. The government's reasoning is that this should be done because that requirement also applies to havoleers. If we follow the PvdA's proposal, that demand will no longer apply to the havoleers. Does Mrs. Jadnanansing think that it should be dropped for the MBO students as well?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u54	A motion was tabled by Mr Mohandis and Mr Klaver on the transfer of MBO students, calling for no more thresholds than there are already. That is why I would not like to raise any additional thresholds in addition to the thresholds already in place.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u55	Unlike Mr Van Meenen, I am not at all happy with what Mrs Jadnansing is now putting forward. Not so much I am not happy with that, but employers are not happy with it, the further education is not happy with it, parents are not happy with it, and the teachers who have now worked on it are not happy with it. What Mrs Jadnanancing is doing is taking the pressure off the kettle, while we were just getting on with that mathematics education. As far as we are concerned, the level of computational education needs to be raised. We don't do that by taking the pressure off the kettle right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u56	What is your question, Mrs Straus?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u57	Why is she doing this? Why does she think kids get along when you take the pressure off the kettle?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u58	In 2008, we all said that we want young people to learn how to calculate. That is the starting point. We want to give young people opportunities in the labour market by teaching them how to count properly, so that they can then flow through. Because we find that we are not there yet despite the very many efforts, I make the choice not to let the young people go down through the ice, but to look at how we can improve calculation education so that all these young people learn to calculate well. I am also disappointed, like you, but I am disappointed at the fact that we have not yet been able to count young people properly. I'm very disappointed in that. We have to do everything we can to make sure that it improves.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u59	But what do you propose to keep the pressure on it to improve it, if you remove that key? I don't think there'll be any more pressure to improve education. I would like to add that, and with that, I would like to include Mr Rog: how can it be that there are improvements in the education system? You agreed in the first instance if it were to remain within that range and that, now that it appears that further progress has been made, you suddenly say that the test should not count anymore? I don't understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u60	I'm asking you to speak through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u61	That there are improvements is fantastic. The fact that young people should fall through the ice because we are all saying 'we are going to go on now' is not fantastic for me at all. In fact, that's very bad. You say, "I don't understand." Luckily, I understand myself. I understand why I come to this choice, because I have always said myself: young people must not suffer from poor arithmetic. Young people must not suffer from the fact that they have not yet been adequately brought to justice. We take responsibility for that. The PvdA Group says: first we want to ensure that young people can count well. We provide sufficient opportunities for young people to receive a diploma. Then we will also be working on computational education, but we will not let young people sink through the ice. We give young people a lot of opportunities in this society.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u62	When parties suddenly change their minds, they often wait in the Chamber for pitch and feathers. In this situation, on the contrary, the Labour Party received a great deal of praise from political groups which felt a few months ago that we should not continue along this path. I'm just trying to get some insight into the criterion on the basis of which the Labour Party measures where it can and can't. Can you tell me about that? Where's the bar for you? You say it can be done in the vwo, but not in the havo and vmbo. Are you looking at concrete percentages?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u63	No, I'm not looking at concrete percentages. I'm just looking at the fact that thousands of young people would be failing right now. You know, I really went into the Chamber for the young, not for you or for myself. I believe in as many opportunities as possible for young people. I teach every Monday at a VMBO school in Amsterdam-Zuidoost. I speak to young people there and always say to them: go for it, do not give up and work hard. I see a lot of young people who have worked very hard, but who are not at the moment where we want them to be able to actually count the test. I'm saying right now, let's not do that. Don't take away young people's chances.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u64	I think it is a very reassuring idea that you did not enter the Chamber for me, but for the young people. You have something you're fighting for. I think, however, that the Chamber has a right to know what the Labour Party's trade-off is, which makes it say: at least we do not want this for Havo and VMBO. By the way, I welcome that consideration. I hear you say: I do not want thousands of young people to fall. If there's hundreds of them, is that okay? You're saying it's okay in vwo. We know that there is a profile in which the percentage of students who fail with the calculation test is also quite high.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u65	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u66	Then again my question, not to you personally, but to your group, where the border lies. I do not want to be surprised if we suddenly have another situation in a few months.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u67	What we are concerned about, including as a group, is that we are going to focus on the fact that young people learn to count well. That's our first and only focus. We're not going into all these percentages right now. We are going to be ready for good computational education for young people. Make sure that young people are able to calculate well.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u68	Finally, Mr Slob.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u69	In conclusion, I agree that we need to ensure that there is good arithmetic education at all levels. Does this also mean that at least in the coming years we will no longer be harassed by a calculation test, including with regard to the Labour Party?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u70	In that sense, you will not be harassed by us that we will not quickly say: count this well. First, we are going to look quietly at the teaching of mathematics, which must be put in order. Young people must be able to learn how to calculate. That is our focus number one: good computing for young people, good calculating for young people and ensuring that they have and keep opportunities.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u71	Mr Rog, this is your second interruption. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u72	We are dealing here with a self-conscious spokesperson of the PvdA Group. It is opposed to its own minister, who wants a calculation test to be carried out in practice, and even that it is included in the bag/layer scheme at all levels. Mrs. Jadnansing doesn't want that. I have asked the rulers whether they would like to maintain the calculation test in the vwo only if the test is soon to be abolished by a large majority and with the support of the PvdA Group in Havo and VMBO. If the rulers find that undesirable, does Mrs Jadnansing hold on to the calculation test in the vwo?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u73	That's a like-dan question. I would like to come back to that in the second term, but I do not think that is the case. It's really a like-dan question I can't answer right now. We have had our thoughts. We've made a decision. It is up to the directors to make their own decision. Our consideration at the moment is cliff-and-ready. We say: yes, in the vwo the results are such that it is justified to have the test counted there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u74	It is difficult to get concrete answers from Mrs Jadnansing, but I want this to be clear. We are standing here today with a PvdA group with a very clear position. That position is 180 degrees different from last time, but none of that matters. I would like to know whether the test can eventually be taken off the vwo if the cabinet so wishes, if it can see that there will be only one calculation test in one place. I would like to know whether there is a majority here in the Chamber for that. Where does the Labour Party stand when it comes to the calculation test in the vwo?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u75	The Labour Party is currently in the position that it is justified to have the test carried out in the VWO. That is our position. That is the balance that we have made.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u76	What does this mean for pupils who are weak in math? What does it mean for all those students for whom Mrs Jadnansing suddenly has a heart in the other education sectors? Because aren't they just the feeble students who don't make it on the vwo? Does Mrs Jadnansing agree with those students that they do not have a future in higher education?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u77	I wish all young people a good future in education. Once again, when I see how much more can be done for these young people, I think it is justified to enter the test on the vwo.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u78	It's true: turning doesn't make you popular in the House of Representatives. But if you turn in the right direction, like in this case, it makes me very happy. This is very good for education. I'd like to know exactly where you're going. Because last year you were very much in favour of the calculation test. This week you say: at least not in vmbo and havo. But what do you say in six months? Not at all anymore, so not at the vwo either, is it? Are you really in favour of the calculation test? And when is it supposed to come? What exactly is your motion going to look like?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u79	Mrs. Jadnanancing. And I ask Mr Van Dijk not to communicate directly with Mrs Jadnansing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u80	But I can communicate directly with myself, can't I?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u81	Yes, you may. But a question has been asked, so I think it is a good thing that you are communicating with Mr Van Dijk, through the President.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u82	Of course. The question I was asked is: what is your position on the calculation test? It's very simple. I don't have any problems with a math key at all, because a math key, or a key as such, looks where you are. How good are you at that moment? With a test on its own, I don't think anything is wrong. What bothers me is that we are currently seeing that a lot of young people do not yet have the computing skills. Back to the beginning: why did we do this again? We are doing this because we want all young people to be able to count properly. And, you know, I'm not celebrating a party here. You say it's a beautiful day. No, it's not. It is not a good day at all, because we all note that we have not achieved the goal we wanted to go to, namely to teach all young people how to calculate well. We're not there yet. So I want us to really invest with teachers, with school leaders and with everyone around them. We have to invest in it first to get the right math in order. If you ask me if I am against a calculation test, I can be very specific in that. I'm not against a test. Not against a math test either. It's about how we use it. At the moment it is a measure so we can see that we have not made enough progress in the vmbo and the havo. That is why I am saying here today: do not count yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u83	I can guarantee Mrs Jadnanancing that it is a beautiful day. Mrs Jadnanancing has made a lot of people very happy, because that math test is a freak. There has been a lot of discussion about the design of that test for years. He's no good. He's too linguistic. He doesn't test maths. I'm not against tests either. Keys are a very useful instrument. Putting a math test lost in the final exam without students being properly prepared is not a good plan, however. You're right to say that. But what can the schools expect from the Labour Party in the coming period? What are you going to suggest in that motion? Just don't count this year, indefinitely or in five years, as the minister wants with the MBO? What do you want?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u84	I want to enter it as soon as it's justified. That is not the case at the moment, because too many young people are still sinking through the ice. So we just put it together quietly the moment it's justified.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u85	For an indefinite period of time, so the math key stays in the air. It's really nice that it doesn't happen this year, but maybe next year it does. That option leaves Mrs Jadnanancing open.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u86	The point is that schools, young people and all of us are going to bet on why we did all this: we wanted to teach the children and young people how to calculate properly. We just have to keep doing that. We're not going to say they all don't have to be able to count anymore. But that's what we all think, that's what we found in 2008, and that's what we're still finding now. I have not heard anyone say in his speech: those young people do not need to learn how to calculate properly. So we are simply going to give these young people good education and make sure that they are able to count properly, that there are enough teachers and that everything is going to be adequate. But I'm not in favour of actually including that test right now. At what point? The moment it's accounted for.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u87	Madam President. I'd like to start with an assignment from one of those secret keys. It's a little linguistic; I admit that. Suppose in 2008 a consultative commission proposes to introduce a calculation test into the final examination and that committee believes that the introduction can take place after ten years. Question: In what year can this calculation test be introduced? I came across answers like: in 2015. I don't think this is right, but what is the right answer? I must say that, after all the re-launches, the rulers have gradually approached the result better and better; they are getting more and more in the right direction. By the way, this sum is just a metaphor. Otherwise people still think I'm gonna clap out of secret keys. Of course I don't, but it could have been. This committee never existed. There has been a Meijerink committee, but it only suggested reference levels, not mandatory calculation tests. This committee alone wanted to devote ten years to establishing these reference levels. This brings you to 2018, while in the meantime the implementation of the reference levels is being built. The title of this debate suggests that the key question is whether testing in education is useful and necessary. As many colleagues have said, it will, I am sure, be difficult to have major differences of opinion between teachers and colleagues on this issue. Testing or testing is and will continue to be an important tool for understanding the progress of pupils and students. The question is, in particular, whether education needs more tests, and then special central tests. There is a reasonable consensus in education on this: there is no need for it and there is no need for it. In this respect, the SGP has no need to know better. First of all, the math test. The SGP is concerned about the government's experiment with the final exams this school year. A contingency plan shall be drawn up in advance for the calculation test component in order to prevent too many pupils from falling. The cabinet is satisfied in advance with a percentage of 5% extra weak pupils by the calculation test. It is reported that a 3 is considered sufficient, but that can of course also be a vague rumor that is not based on truth. Does this not make it clear that it is too early for the calculation test, for any calculation test? We don't have such contingency plans for the final exams, do we? The final exam must simply be sound and not be taken at all. Do we not say in advance that a number of students are regarded as damage, despite the fact that the problems have been on the test for a long time? The SGP finds it worrying that the rulers constantly blame the problems on computing and not on the test itself, while a number of measures have recently been taken to make the calculation test acceptable. Why is the cabinet going on at full power, when students have only been able to practice with the new tests for so long? The Secretary of State opts for a digital test because the content does not have to suffer. However, schools ask for a paper test to prevent logistical problems. That is certainly understandable. If the calculation test is only not adjusted, but is postponed, is the Secretary of State prepared to meet such wishes? In any event, the SGP does not see sufficient reasons to deviate from the normal final examinations. In order to be able to enter the mandatory tests carefully, the embedding must first be in order. First, ample experience of the reference levels and good tests must be gained. Only then can there be any obligation. In addition, there should be sufficient opportunities to deploy specifically trained teachers. In the process of introducing the calculation test, it seems as if the system of powers has been overlooked. There is no separate competence and training for computational education. In what way are the rulers going to arrange for the power to teach mathematics to be properly secured? I would also like to dwell on the calculator. There are several imperfections related to the implementation path, such as the use of the calculator. The SGP continues to draw attention to this, especially since the letters no longer address it. The calculator should only be used for tasks that test the use of the calculator. The Bosker Committee also limits the use of the calculator to situations where it is needed in daily life. Has this starting point been taken up by the committee? The SGP notes that the choices to allow or not to allow the calculator so far are not clear. Why, for example, is it necessary to calculate 40% of 60 bicycle tyres with a calculator? Why should the task "500,000 divided by 20" be calculated in a context with a calculator, when it cannot be done without context? Maybe daily life is used as an argument, but if your phone fails, it is useful if you can add a few cost items of several tens of euros by heart. Why can this be done with the calculator? There is still a lot to improve here. More tests. We think we're there with the math tests. However, if you read the documents correctly, you will also encounter the obligation for schools to participate in international competition, the PISA. The SGP would like to hear from the Secretary of State about this intention. The obligation is included in the legislative proposal on the diagnostic, intermediate test. Can schools expect that these tests, as with the diagnostic, intermediate tests, will not be subject to an obligation, so that schools can make their own choices? In order to achieve structuralally better computational education, a fundamentally different path is really needed than has been the case so far. It is not for nothing that we tabled a motion at the time, which was only supported by the two SGP representatives. It's gonna be different today, I guess. By the way, I have two more motions, so you can make it all up to me by supporting them later.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u88	And you only have 13 seconds to speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u89	Let us all acknowledge that this path has not been good. Let us then take a deep breath and, in consultation with the professionals, start again from scratch in order to actually improve the computing skills of our young people. Mr President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u90	Mr. Chairman. I will start with a quote: "Enough literacy, numerality and a basic mastery of English will be indispensable in the future to remain involved as an individual in the increasingly competitive society." It's not a quote from me, it's from the Education Council in a recent report. The OECD also recently published a report stating that poor computing leads to greater inequality in society. Anyone can turn a dime into a dime, but you have to be able to count on it. The shocking thing about the OECD report is that in the Dutch education of all 62 countries that have been visited, the vulnerable pupils have the slightest chance to move forward in life, because we set the bar far too low for them. Today the question arises as to what perspective we as a Chamber offer these young people. That question is not before the first time. In 2007, education itself was the alarm clock about the poor language and computing skills of our young people. That was widely taken up by politics at the time. There have been agreements with education. On this basis reference levels have been developed and laid down by law for language and calculation. Moreover, there is a lot of extra money invested in it. How is it possible that we are standing here today and have to observe that some schools have not done any work on arithmetic in all these years? Every parent wants his or her child to have it better than him or her. Education is essential for this, but we must dare to set the bar high. This is also apparent from the OECD report I have referred to earlier. Only if you have high expectations, adapt education to this and thus set the bar in education high can students get the best out of themselves. This seems obvious, and we often talk about the quality of education here in the Chamber, but now we are threatening to set the bar so low that the students stumble upon it. The calculation test is the appropriate means to ensure a final level, as with the Dutch exam, as with the economics exam, as with the driving test. It allows students or those taking that exam to show what they can do. It gives value to that diploma. We are now living in 2015. We're eight years away. I must admit to Mr Bishop that we are not ten years away, but still. Where are we now? In the vo we see a carefully rising line. The VVD is therefore satisfied that these results in secondary education are such that they fall within the agreed band and that the calculation test can therefore be introduced as far as we are concerned. I would like to give the Secretary of State and through him the schools and especially the teachers who have worked seriously on this. But the rising trend of secondary education remains in the MBO. During last year's debate, it was stated that the MBO in particular still has an enormous effort to make. The Minister agreed. In fact, additional funding has been made available for the specific teaching of mathematics in the MBO. That is why I am not amused that the letter from the government shows that insufficient progress has been made in the MBO. Does the Minister think she's been on top of it enough? It is now presenting an action plan, but I cannot escape the impression that it should have dealt with this much earlier. Does she not think that her action plan is too little and too late, given the vote here in the Chamber today or, in the words of my colleague Anne-Wil Lucas, is she not dealing with aspirin and patches in the MBO? I find it quite shocking, for example, that more than 30% of the MBO students indicate that they did not have any calculation lessons at all in the preparation for the calculation test and that while extra money has been made available for calculation lessons in the MBO. Then where did that money go? Furthermore, the Minister's proposal harms the havists. In order to gain access to all HBO courses, they must have a sufficient number for the calculation test. On the other hand, without the successful completion of the calculation test, mbo-4 students are allowed to transfer directly to at least the calculation-luwe hbo-training courses. The VVD doesn't think that's fair. As far as the VVD is concerned, the action plan proposed by the Minister must be further strengthened. If we don't move forward now, we'll abandon another generation of MBO students, and the VVD doesn't think that's acceptable. We therefore want to tighten up on three points. First of all, every year we want an assessment of the progress made in the MBO. We want not only to appeal to the schools that are left behind, but also to make their results part of the funding through quality agreements. In addition, we want to investigate where the money has gone. If it turns out that the money has not been spent on computational education, we also want the Minister to make an effort to recover it. I would like to receive a response from the Minister on these points. I am considering tabling motions on this matter as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u91	Are we watching a really bad play right now? I get that the VVD isn't amused, because it's never fun if your coalition partner leaves you over a plan, in this case the math test. But is Mrs Straus now going to take revenge by being very transparent only about the MBO for which the PvdA Minister is responsible to complain that things are not going well? Is she really serious? Doesn't she think that both rulers are doing an equal amount of work to get the mathematics in order?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u92	I see that the Secretary of State, together with secondary education, has managed to show progress in the results of the calculation test and that they are within the range we agreed on last year. I don't see that in the MBO. I see that the Minister is now proposing an action plan that she could have started with last year.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u93	In the vmbo and in the havo the numbers are not too bright either. Will Mrs Straus really suggest that her Secretary of State Dekker is doing a great job, that PvdA Minister Bussemaker fails, has to do her homework again and is saddled by the VVD with all additional tasks?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u94	It's not a question of whether those numbers are fluffy. They're within the bandwidth we've agreed on before. As far as we're concerned, that agreement is in place, so the Secretary of State has delivered what he was supposed to deliver. That didn't happen at the MBO.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u95	Finally, I have a very simple question. The PvdA has now said not to want a calculation key for vmbo and havo. Mrs Jadnansing will table a motion on that. That motion could just get a majority. Does Mrs Straus agree with me that this motion should be properly implemented in accordance with good democratic practice, because the majority of the House of Representatives wants it to be?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u96	We live here in a democracy. Unfortunately, the VVD does not have 76 seats and so it has to accept this, but it does not like it, especially for the young people we are talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u97	I have a question. Mrs Straus spoke about 30% in the MBO. Does it also have percentages of young people in secondary education who say they are not well prepared for the calculation test?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u98	I do not have those percentages, but I certainly believe that there are schools there that do not have arithmetic education in order. I'm not saying we should just let all that go. That is exactly why I want to keep the pressure on so that those schools will also deliver. Unfortunately, that is something Mrs Jadnansing does not want.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u99	I'll give you the answer: that's 46%. 46% of young people in secondary education indicate that they are not well prepared. I just wanted to give that to Mrs. Straus.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u100	I would say of course, but there is another question from Mr Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u101	It is, of course, very interesting to continue to take account of each other and to see whether the Secretary of State or the Minister has done the worst, but I shall not do that for a moment. Mrs Straus has said a number of things, for example that agreements have been made with education on how we are going to do all this. She is even one of the proud signatories to the Together Learning Initiative. It elaborates on the careful role to be played around keys. That initiative is based on "give that teacher his profession back" et cetera, et cetera. How can Mrs Straus reconcile this with this enormous manifestation of distrust in teachers, namely that teachers will not do anything if there is no test? How does she further explain that despite these agreements about the calculation test and despite the warm words of the VVD there is collective and massive resistance of the unions, of the employers, of the Dutch Association of Mathematics Teachers, of the LAKS, of the JOB and you name it all? How does she explain that if it was done so neatly by the Secretary of State in consultation with education?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u102	This test is not an end in itself. It is only a means of improving computational education, but, as far as we are concerned, it is a test that ultimately measures the final level of children. I think that was our disagreement in our interrupting debate just now. As far as we are concerned, it is simply part of the exam program of all students, precisely because these basic skills are so very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u103	Which brings me to my question about those basic skills. For basic skills we have a primary school; the word actually says it. Does Mrs Straus not agree with me that it is rather odd that we, at least the VVD, only expect these basic skills to be in order at the end of the course? In this context, what does she think of the proposal of the Dutch Association of Mathematics Teachers to invest in primary and secondary education and integrate it there with mathematics, so that it is given by qualified teachers? That is also the D66 proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u104	In my view, we fully agree with you that mathematics should start at primary school. It is not for nothing that we introduced the central final test last year, in which these reference levels will be introduced slowly but surely in the coming years. I am also pleased to see that at least 90% of primary school pupils are already at 1F level, the level we expect them to have at the end of primary education. Education also does not stand in the way of giving arithmetic lessons in the subject of education. Nothing stands in the way of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u105	I understand I just can't get an answer. My question was of course: doesn't Mrs Straus agree with me that if you want the basics to be in order, which should be in order in time and not after the exam? I have a third question... but what was it again? It was a very good question; I remember that. May I come back to that in a moment, Mr. Chairman? It's a senior moment. I get that here sometimes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u106	Just think about it for a second. Perhaps Mr Grashoff will be able to ask his question in the meantime.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u107	Mrs Straus very easily draws a clear line from "it's a basic skill" to "so you have to learn it and so you have to test it." Could she agree with me that there are many basic skills which are certainly not insignificant, but which we do not test at all and which we certainly do not want to test tomorrow? I refer to communicative skills in primary and secondary education. I call it social skills. Even in aspects such as citizenship, we could weigh it up. In all these cases, not the first thing the VVD says is: we all have to put that in a final exam tomorrow. Would Mrs Straus agree with me that if we want to teach children and young people everything we want to do in tests and finish exams, we will make education an invisible hurdle?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u108	I started with a quote from the Education Council. It was about literacy, numerality and a basic mastery of English. As far as we are concerned, these are the basic skills and the other are not.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u109	Does this mean that Mrs Straus believes that communicative and social skills are apparently not basic skills that should be taken into account and taught in education?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u110	Oh, yes, I do. Those skills need to be learned. They are also important elements of education. We have chosen to standardise and test only language and numeracy in primary education. In secondary education we have final exams. I would like to leave it at that. All I can see is that at the moment, counting is missing in those final exams. I'd like to add that. That is what we are talking about today. Calculation is one of the basic skills and that is exactly what young people need to build a better future. I do not understand why Mr Grashoff of GroenLinks does not want to invest in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u111	I am still amazed at the global vision which the VVD Group is putting forward here by Mrs Straus. If I was woken up in the middle of the night to answer the question of whether social skills were among the most important things in life, I would choose the second. Mrs Straus then says: 1 + 1 = 2.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u112	This is not about the most important things in life. Those are other things for me too, which is not even sitting here with you today debating the calculation test. You should know that, too. It's about the basic skills our children need to learn in education. That is at least what parents want education to teach their children. On top of that, there is plenty of room to work on other things: entrepreneurship, creativity, personal development, the development of talent, geography, biology and computer science, all these things should, as far as I am concerned, be given a place in education. However, we must not forget that the basis must be on order, and these are the subjects of language and arithmetic.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u113	Mr Van Meenen remembers his third question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u114	I figured out what it was all by myself. Pretty, huh?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u115	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u116	Mrs Straus also said that the test for her is not an end in itself but a means. She literally said that. Does she agree with me that, given the results on the MBO, the HAVO and also on part of the VWO, this medicine simply fails?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u117	What I read from teachers who are also calculators, is that they almost beg us not to let go of it. In recent years, when we are talking seriously about this issue, they have finally got their hands on each other in education to do something about it. I admit immediately that this is not the case in all schools. I also mentioned this in my speech, and Mrs Jadnansing has added value to that. I do not want to abandon the mathematics coordinators who are doing a good job now and who finally feel the priority at their school to get the mathematics in order.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u118	This was your third question, Mr Van Meenen, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u119	I'll come to a conclusion. We pretend math isn't really important to your future. However, the practice is different. At the VVD we are often in conversation with entrepreneurs, who are also often parents. As an educational spokesperson, I ask them whether they are a recognised learning company and whether they have trainees. The vast majority of the responses to this question is that the students who come to the internship are fine professionals, but often cannot pay without errors at the cash register or cannot send an e-mail to the customer without error. I cannot stress it often enough whether it is during discussions on low literacy, during discussions on the growing number of people in debt restructuring or here today during the debate on the calculation test: everyone needs language and arithmetic to be able to make something of his life. If you cannot count on it, I would like to say again explicitly to Mr Grashoff. That is why it is incomprehensible to us that Mrs Jadnansing of the PvdA, who is always talking about vulnerable young people and who presents herself as the hero of the pupils in vocational education, is now suddenly taking the position to lower the bar for these young people. She is not helping these young people, but abandoning them. I don't need to be their hero. I want them to be my heroes and to be proud of what they achieve later.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u120	I waited a while to see if the representative of the PvdA came forward, but she remains seated for a while. I find it rather harsh what Mrs Straus is saying in the direction of the PvdA spokesperson. She says that, in fact, all the other groups who disagree with her on the answer to the question of whether a compulsory calculation test is the means that we need to raise the level of computational education. Doesn't Mrs Straus think she's going too far? I understand your disappointment, but let me say quite frankly that I think you are crossing a line.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u121	I assume you think Mrs Straus is crossing a border, not the President. Would you like to respond to that, Mrs Straus?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u122	The point is that we should not change the bar for these students because we are not doing them any favours. This is evident from all kinds of studies, and that is what I want to make clear to Mrs Jadnansing. It always indicates that it wants to stand for these vulnerable young people. She may now be making sure that they get a diploma in the short term, but we do not think that she is doing them any favours in the longer term, for their future.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u123	Doesn't Mrs Straus make this mandatory calculation test an end in itself? I also hear you say that it was a means, Mrs Straus. Perhaps you can disagree on what resources you need to raise this level of computational education. That's allowed; that's political. In the end, the majority decides what will happen. The opinions on this subject have been very shaky, so I hope that we will now get a little consistency. This will also depend on the strong knees of the Labour Party; we will see that. Let us be careful, however, that those who come to the shortest conclusion are not going to accuse the others of believing that the calculation should go down and that they would not attach such importance to it. I'm gonna take a little distance from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u124	Sure, you can. In the end, it's about setting the bar high. I have not yet heard any proposals, perhaps they will come in the second term, to ensure that the bar remains high. In the end, that is what these young people need and whatever education needs in order to be able to continue this progress.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u125	Mrs. Jadnanancing, you've been addressed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u126	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mrs. Straus says I'd like to be a hero of all those young people. On the contrary! I don't have to be a hero. I don't have to be a hero. I don't have to be a hero. But, Mrs Straus, do you really think you want this for all these young people? We've seen the results. We have not yet got the arithmetical education in order. We have said here in the Chamber: we want to teach young people how to calculate, because then they have so many opportunities! It has not yet been possible to teach young people how to calculate correctly, but now you say that we must stick to the test! Isn't it always a question of why we decided this with each other? That was not to lower young people, but to teach young people how to calculate well! Don't you agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u127	I agree with you very much, but disagree with you on how you can achieve that best and fastest. If you let go of that now, mathematics will not progress.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u128	May I ask Members to speak through the chairman? This prevents too many emotions from happening over and over again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u129	You can see that, Mr. Chairman. When it comes to this, to the fact that we want to offer young people opportunities and learn how to calculate well, I do get emotional. I am sorry to see the results here, in the reality of the Hague, but despite everything, we are still going to see the results. You're right, Mr. Chairman. That does make me emotional. I think that we should be honest with each other and say: it is not in order at the moment and we cannot give all these young people the opportunities we want to give them, so we are going to go back first, we are going to see how we can get them to count properly. I realize that I am repeating myself, but that is because I sincerely believe that we must first return to the question of why. Why did we do it again? That's to give these young people a future! Don't you agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u130	I notice this is going to be a repeat of moves. Mrs Straus, a brief response to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u131	In the end, it is a question of improving mathematics. We all agree on that. We believe that sticking to the test will also allow us to work on the 1.9% that does not yet pass this test, so that they can also pass this test. In the end, 100% of these students are involved. They must all be given better computational education! We don't think that progression will be continued if you take the pressure off the key.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u132	Mr. Chairman. We often and intensively discuss specific issues relating to scrutiny. One of the very first debates I was allowed to have here was about the final test in primary education. I'm happy to look back on it. We regularly talk about the central exams. Of course, we will also continue to talk about the calculation test in secondary education. A lot has been said about this today. The letter which the Minister and I sent on the calculation test also gives cause for this. It is also good and important to take time to start the conversation more in principle and in width. I am referring to a discussion on the usefulness, necessity and value of tests in general, initiated by Mr Grashoff's predecessor, who has now been promoted to group chairman at GroenLinks. He said: draw up a letter that hangs a little more above matter and looks at what exactly is the point, the need and the value of scrutiny. That question was asked a year and a half ago and I believe that the letter has been there for a year to be properly discussed. The initiative at the time was to do so in a general debate, regardless of incidents. I have the impression that a large part of this debate is about a specific test, the calculation test. Perhaps it is good to start with this, because most of the time and attention has been devoted to this. Once this has been completed, I think it would be good to consider this broader issue as well. Last Tuesday, the Minister and I sent a letter to the Chamber detailing the state of play in terms of language and mathematics. We regularly send letters to the Chamber about this and discuss it on a regular basis. It is a theme that is at the heart of our education. Language and arithmetic, as some of you have also indicated, are basic skills. You don't choose to do that. We want every student to master it. You can use them in the other classes in school. You'll need them later if you're looking for a job and in society in general. We always assume that you can save yourself with language and math, even if you go through to higher education. It is the same higher education that rang the alarm eight years ago about the appalling level of mastery of basic language and mathematics. We have worked on this ever since, during various cabinets and always with broad support from the Chamber. The Dutch language and arithmetic reference levels Act was adopted in 2010 and the reference levels were introduced shortly thereafter. On the basis of that law and those reference levels, a calculation test has been introduced and mathematics education in vo and mbo has been revived. This was necessary, too. If we had continued on the old road at the time, we would not have improved on the education of mathematics in schools. Over the past few years, the Minister and I have been working to ensure that schools improve computational education. We have also worked to ensure that the key developers improve the key. Much money has been invested in this improvement from the government and energy from training. We have always said that we do not want to allow pupils to suffer from computational education that is not yet in order. The Court is aware of the actions initiated and the results are continuously monitored. We have analysed the results of the last school year in detail. In secondary education, these results show a marked upward trend. Students have been doing better across the board. The percentage of pupils with a final grade of 5 or higher is 85% on the vmbo-kb, 88% on the vmbo-gt, 89% on the havo and even 100% on the vwo. The number of students reaching a 6 or higher has also increased significantly compared to last year. Looking at these results, looking at the efforts in schools and seeing that the test is now in order, we have arrived at the point where we can say that we are ready for further education. The work of all teachers, calculators and school leaders who have worked in recent years to improve computational education will bear fruit. The motivation is increasing for everyone. That's what I see in different schools. Students are going to try harder and harder. The school year in which the calculation test will count before the diploma in secondary education has started. That counting for the diploma is a crucial final step to reward the work of eight years. It is, as it were, the keystone of computational education. Students can use this to cash in the learned. They enter further education and society well prepared. That's not unimportant either.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u133	Van Oldenbarnevelt said just before he was beheaded: make it short, make it short. I had to think about that when I heard the Secretary of State again all the blessings of the calculation test, working towards it and the like. In my view, there is no majority in the political situation to continue along this road. It would be a good idea for the Secretary of State to reflect on that. We can, of course, repeat the whole debate and repeat everything. That is incredibly interesting, but there is another political reality. Is the Secretary of State aware of this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u134	I am well aware of this, but I also think it is important to outline the context and indicate where we are now and why postponement would be unwise. It is important to clarify the consequences for the Chamber if it does so in the near future. I think that a great deal of what we have achieved over the past eight years is simply stagnating: progress in computing, eight years of improving computational education in secondary education. We are so close that it would be a shame not to take the next step.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u135	I read the letter well. It's one letter, but it's actually two parts: MBO and secondary education. For the MBO, the Minister, who is responsible for this, makes the choice to take the place. However, she makes it very clear that we are continuing to work on strengthening mathematics education in the MBO. You can also follow the same reasoning for secondary education, even if you would not pass a mandatory calculation test for vmbo, havo and, as far as we are concerned, vwo. Does the Secretary of State share that view, even in view of his own letter?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u136	Again, I think it'll help to move on to the closing part now, giving you that last push. You make it clear to schools that if you really think math is a basic skill, you also think it's important that students who leave education have a degree that is well mastered. We have taken a huge step in this and are very close. I just mentioned the percentages of students who are now achieving a 5 or higher. In the lowest case, it is 85% and in the other learning paths it only runs. A lot of students who haven't gotten 5 yet are really close to it. Many schools, as can also be seen in the report of the Support Point Language and Calculations received by the Chamber, indicate that counting the figure for the calculation test will improve the computing skills. Mr Slob asks how I look at this and how we can proceed with these improvements. The figures of the MBO, which are somewhat different from those of the VOTE, show that we need to take a few more steps there. In secondary education, however, we are so close at the moment that we think it would be good to take that last step.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u137	The Secretary of State says why he wrote his letter. Of course, it would also be strange if he were to now say quite different texts than he wrote in the letter he sent to the Chamber. However, the political point that there is now a shift in support for a mandatory calculation test in secondary education can ultimately mean nothing other than that the Secretary of State will have to add to that. As far as we are concerned, this does not have to be at the expense of the quality of computational education. This can also be reinforced in another way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u138	I will, of course, come back to that later, because I can count and count. I see what it feels like in this room. At the same time, it is also good to highlight our side of the matter here. The various spokesmen have had ample time for their input. I think it is a good idea to explain why the whole process of improving quality is good for students: if they finally take a step, society in or into further education, it is a good thing that they get the count and that they can do it at a good level.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u139	Of course you will have the opportunity for your input. However, I think the message was also that it might be a little shorter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u140	I don't want to take anything away from that. In fact, I'd rather take the same time to describe that whole history and tell you how I look at it. I am not going to do that, Mr President. In any case, I come to a completely different conclusion on the basis of the same facts and figures. I will summarize this briefly as: we have gone a long way towards the canyon and now the Secretary of State intends to take the last important step forward. That's how I look at it. However, I would ask the Secretary of State not to go back to the whole debate with us on whether it makes sense or not, but to deal with the political situation which has now arisen as a result of the position of the PvdA in the rest of his speech. If he continues to do so in the rest of his term, I have no problem with that. That is the case if we get a further exposé on the blessings of the calculation test. I'm done with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u141	I could take this as a point of order, but I think the message has been given to the Secretary of State. Maybe he can take that into account. I'm asking him to move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u142	Several questions have been asked by the spokesmen. I think it would be a good idea to answer them properly. I think they're entitled to that. Mr Van Dijk said in so many words: if you continue now, this will lead to a massacre. I think it's good to put that in perspective. If no one's allowed to fail a test, you might as well not enter it. Based on the old data, you'll find a number of 3,200 or 3,300 failed. Of course, that's a lot. However, set against the total number of saggings on an annual basis, it is very not so bad. We know that the numbers of songs show all kinds of wave movements. If the calculation test had been taken into account in the past year, the total number of calculated percentages would still be less than in 2011 or 2012. There would also be fewer in absolute numbers than in 2012. Then 18,000 students fell, compared with less than 17,000 students in 2015 if the calculation test had counted. To outline the perspective: if you really think that all students who obtain a diploma should also count on a certain level, we have come at a time when it is in our eyes justified to take a next step. That may also be necessary to keep everyone motivated. Mr Van Meenen asked about the quality of the tests. That still seems to me to be a very relevant question. There may not be a majority in the Chamber for the next year of the calculation test in the bag/layer scheme, but if I count correctly, I note that there is a majority in the Chamber that wants to go through with the calculation test. That test must be good. We have had an investigation carried out by the Bosker Committee. That committee has made recommendations. More than a hundred teachers from all over education are involved in the construction of the calculation test. They ensure that the test is a good means of assessing whether students can calculate. They are involved in determining the subject matter, the syllabus, the construction of the calculations and the development of tasks for pupils with serious computing problems. The chairman of the committee, who advised us at the time on the quality of the calculation test, also concludes that the instrument as such is nothing wrong. So you can come to the point that it is too early to make the calculation key count in the bag/layer control, but the key itself is good. If the calculation test is not to be included in the HAVO and VMBO, as Mrs Jadnanancing proposes, then we know what the consequences are. Schools that are now ready and schools that have experienced enormous progress will be told that the matter will be postponed for another year. For those schools which may have started a little later and under pressure from the introduction of the test, they are now finally ready to let pupils take steps and make serious work of better computational education, the pressure will be removed. I know this because we have already postponed the test for a year in the past. Research has also been carried out on this subject. The Steur committee is clear about this; she believes that the year has actually done more harm than good. It was a disappointment for the schools that had drawn hard, set priorities and appointed calculators. For a number of other schools the delay was a signal from The Hague that the calculation test was postponed again. I see that as a risk when the Chamber decides not to introduce the calculation test this year. In that case, the question will be how we can keep the pressure on. The Minister and I, of course, have all kinds of other means for this. We can have the inspection look into it. A question was asked about this with the We note that it has been important for a number of schools and also for a number of pupils that we have radiated that the calculation test will be taken into account at some point. That was a stick behind the door for schools. It is also important for students to know if something counts in the end. That's daily practice in many schools. If a havo-student has to choose towards his final exam between blocks for a final English exam that counts and for which he can fail, or for a calculation test that doesn't count, then I don't have to tell him what that havist will spend his time in. This also means something for the progress we would all like to make in improving computational education. In addition, we would like to see an end to the flow of pupils from secondary education to further education without their proper knowledge of mathematics. Mr Van Meenen asked how this relates to the plea for greater flexibility in education, for the customized diploma. I am in favour of flexibility in education. I also have a positive basic attitude towards a tailor-made diploma, especially to give pupils a chance to do certain subjects at a higher level. I think Mr Van Meenen wants something else. He wants to give students the opportunity to do things at a lower level. That is what Mr Van Meenen and I disagree with each other, because, like language and English, I find a basic skill that you should not make concessions to. We don't say for Havo either: gosh, you might be a little less good at your languages, you know what, leave the Dutch exam alone. Or: You don't like English and you find it difficult, do so at a lower level. Nor should we, in my view, do so with calculations.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u143	The suggestion that I would like students to be able to do things at a lower level is totally incorrect. I want it to be a customized diploma, so it's done at the right level per discipline at school. I hope, however, that the Secretary of State will answer my question. At the moment, if the mathematics test were to be carried out, havo and vwo students would take the same mathematics test. How does that relate to customization? Even if you wanted them to do something higher, you can't even do that when you're on the Have, because on the vwo you do exactly the same test. So my question is how such a calculation test relates to customization.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u144	Mr Van Meenen's point is justified. All VMBO students should take a 2F test. From the bottom we have now said that we are going to offer more customization with the so-called 2A-key. We'll take a little more time for that, too. There is one key that tests the minimum level for havo and vwo, namely the 3F key. I would like to remind Mr Van Meenen that in 2010, when the Dutch language reference levels Act and the corresponding reference levels were introduced by his party at the time, "the decision was a very conscious one." I am now trying, with the introduction of a voluntary 3S test, which indicates the target level, to offer a little more challenge in the vwo. However, I would not like to bring down the minimum requirements for the HAVO.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u145	I do not want to bring down minimum requirements and I do not really want to go back with the Secretary of State to the moment when those reference levels have been agreed. Let me ask you a different question. How does the Secretary of State view Mr Meijerink's comments, which were at the basis of them? He says that everything that has happened is now following my own words "a gross violation of what was once intended."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u146	I think these are the words of Mr Van Meenen. I have heard Mr Meijerink say something else. For example, he talked about the introduction time that had to be taken. I believe that Mr Bishop also asked: take the time, take ten years, and work step by step to adjust the test, the levels and so on. In my opinion, we have done nothing but that in recent years. We postponed it for a year once because we saw that it was too fast for schools. We've adjusted the key to parts. We have had a committee examine how we can ensure that the introduction of the calculation test takes place responsibly. Are these ten years, as I say in the direction of Mr Bishop, over now? No, but we are not proposing to enter the calculation test directly at the heaviest level, as we would like it to be. When we discussed this with the Chamber last year, and when there was still a clear majority in favour of that trajectory, we said: we are taking four years to perhaps start with a slightly lower level. However, we would start and then work gradually towards 2020. We just want everyone to get a pass.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u147	Isn't entering a test, anyway, actually the highest objective of the Secretary of State? How it counts is less relevant and how students look at it doesn't matter. Is it true that in an attempt to get the Labour Party back, the Secretary of State has said that a 3 can also be sufficient to succeed if it should?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u148	A 3 is a thick insufficient, like a 4 and a 5. We have always said that we want everyone to achieve a sufficient level and that we would accept it for the period up to 2020 if students reach a 5. On top of that, we talked about a safety net. What happens if, despite the agreement on the 5, there are still large numbers of students going down? I have to say quite frankly that the results of the past year do not show that such large numbers of students are falling. If that is the case, which I once again do not expect, the standard will be adjusted downwards. That is, by the way, in line with what the Steur Committee suggested. The standard could then possibly become a 4 or a 3. In my view, that's a highly theoretical story in case it all went wrong. Based on last year's figures, a safety net scheme with a 4 might just be needed in the HAVO and VMBO. However, I can see how many students are actually very close to those 5 already. In addition, we have another year to practice very hard and work hard on education, an extra opportunity for rematching, and students who are going to do their best when something counts. I do not think that safety net regulation is necessary at all. Mr Van Meenen and Mr Van Dijk both suggested talking to the Dutch Association of Mathematics Teachers, suggesting that I would not have done so. I personally sat at the table with the chairman and one of the members of the association. We talked about this, too. One of the things that came up on the table is: don't test this at the end of secondary education, but integrate mathematics into the teachings of mathematics. That is what I hear Mr Van Meenen say. I would advise schools that wish to do so: start tomorrow and do this above all. It is one of the ways of getting mathematics education up and running. There's nothing or no one that forbids schools. If they have reached that level at the end of the substructure, as Mr Van Meenen suggests, I would be absolutely delighted. If students have that level at the end of the curriculum, they could, of course, also pass their final exams. In other words, this is not a solution to the problem raised by Mr Van Meenen, which I see is that calculation education has not yet paid off in full. I see great progress. I see it helps if you're clear about the fact that the lower limit is going to count at some point. I have just said something to Mr Van Meenen about what the safety net system would look like. In reply to a question from Mr Rog, I can also dwell on that, but we are going on the path that Mr Slob said: don't pay too much attention to it. So, with permission, I'll skip those questions. Ms Jadnansing asked what would happen in the coming years to support teachers. I am pleased to see that there is broad support in the Chamber for improving mathematics and that the Chamber broadly supports that all pupils should be able to count on, at the levels we have agreed on. That means there's just work to be done over the next few years. It also means that with the deletion or temporary postponement of the calculation test in the vmbo and the havo, we have to look at the ways to keep everyone motivated. If havists have to take a test that doesn't count, there are also students who say: I'm not going to try very hard for that. That was one of the reasons why we wanted to continue with it. These are the consequences. I'll paint them for the Chamber. Mr Bishop also asked a question related to the quality of computational education. How can we ensure that there is good, qualified staff available? You'll eventually need good math teachers to take those steps. This problem has been identified in the MBO programme, and the Minister will say something about it later, but I can see it in the VMBO. It sometimes helps to have work in vmbo pabo-teachers who have mastered mathematics very well. They are not formally competent in VMBO, but they do a very good job there. Before the end of the year, I intend to include this issue in the broad context of dealing with lack of competence. How do we ensure that there are also good teachers in VMBO who can teach this to the students?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u149	In the debate a few times now a reasoning has come back that has something like this: if we do not test it, students are not going to do their best for it. At the same time, we have to note that the test has not been measured so far, but the results have improved in recent years. This seems to me to be proof of the opposite, namely that students can achieve better scores, even if they are not required to do so. That leads to some kind of philosophies about what it's about. I challenge the Secretary of State to answer that. Is the essence of the whole issue not simply a return to: ensuring that education is better? Did the Secretary of State or the field of education perhaps need that test, or the threat of that test, to ensure that education was properly organised? If that were the case, could that be a reason to do our own homework and not tire the students of it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u150	In recent years, major achievements have been made in secondary education without counting that test, but bearing in mind that he would be counting this year. There are schools that started it very early. Greetings for those schools, and great compliments. Some schools have been left behind for a long time. They started later. That also explains why these schools are making a spurt right now. This shows that even the prospect of an exam that will count, including for students, has ultimately been an incentive for schools to get to work on it. Then something about the motivation of students, because that has something to do with it. A 16-year-old student isn't crazy, but they're not all the same either. There are students who, even if the test doesn't count, do their best incredibly hard and want good grades for it. The test comes on the diploma, even if it doesn't count in the bag/layer scheme. I can imagine that a student with a bit of honour would like to have a good grade on that. That helps. There are also students who are very calculative and who, if they have to block hard for other subjects, say: this doesn't count, so I don't do that for a moment. There are also students who don't like math at all and choose a profile in which you don't encounter math. Those are precisely the students for whom this is intended, whom we believe they should make a move. And there are students, not only in the field of mathematics but also in the area of English, mathematics, Dutch and German, who do not reach the level in a year. And then we say in all these subjects: very annoying, but it may happen that you fail once and have to take a year over. My question is: why shouldn't you do that for calculation sooner or later when we all find that this is such an important basic skill?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u151	I would ask you all to cooperate with me in order to put the question briefly and concisely in the event of interruptions. I also ask the Secretary of State to reply briefly and briefly. That's the hallmark of an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u152	I am agitated about how I should do that, but that is a bit difficult on this subject. I know a few types of pupils and the Secretary of State has mentioned a few, but I do not think the student who is working very hard now because something might count in one or two years' time. Perhaps there is a school which, under pressure from the Secretary of State's policy and the intention to make something compulsory, is going to try harder. But then my question remains: it is the job of the Secretary of State to get education in one direction, and it should not be the case that education has to be pursued over the back of pupils in order to do his job properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u153	I fully agree with Mr Grashoff. We also see that major steps have been taken in education. That's only very good. However, the same schools indicate that it is important to say that the test will count for the exam if we want to get it across the board at a good level. We have now come to the point that we should take that last step.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u154	I think that the schools which the Secretary of State is now referring to should, above all, motivate their own teaching staff. Because it's not about the present but a next generation of students who are going to judge.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u155	I don't see a question to the Secretary of State. Mr. Rog, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u156	The Secretary of State is right to say that 16-year-olds aren't crazy. But with permission, the Secretary of State himself has said something crazy. He said a 5 is an adequate one, but that's just an insufficient one. But he also said something much more relevant for the follow-up to this debate on continuing the calculation test in vwo, namely that he is willing to bring the standard further down if many students fail and still get less than a 5. What if all the vwo-students decide not to complete that test and they get a 1? So what's the Secretary of State gonna do? How low is he willing to lay the standard for a sufficient amount?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u157	I have just said that a 2, 3, 4 and 5 is insufficient and a 6 is sufficient. For the time being, our course is that if someone gets a 5, which is good enough for me to use, but just another word is to get a diploma in the end. That is not at all abnormal, because you can get one 5 for a course like Dutch, English or mathematics if there is something else to it. So it is not something quite different than what can be done in many other subjects. There is one difference, and that is just a proposal made last year by the Steur committee, the committee responsible for introducing further education and MBO calculation tests. She said: this is something new, we see that it grows to a good level and at some point you have to take the leap and make the test count. That's always an exciting moment. I do not have any reason to assume that, but I would like to point out that it is unexpected that it will all be disappointing and the results will be worse next year, so to speak, than last year, but I think that is a highly theoretical scenario.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u158	The math key hangs by a thread. The Secretary of State insists strongly that this calculation test may eventually also be introduced in the other sectors. I just want to make it clear here: if all the students refuse to take that test and all get a 1 or a 0, what is the cesorship? Does the norm go to "0 is enough"? Or does the Secretary of State have another Tom Poos in his back pocket?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u159	I think it would be very unwise if they were to do so massively. I think they'll all fall.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u160	Does the Secretary of State agree with me that the competence of teachers has been a forgotten chapter and that it illustrates a little that the introduction has been too quick? It must be clear who is competent to give the lessons before teaching at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u161	We have not described in detail how a school should teach mathematics. That was an explicit wish at the time. Some schools wanted to integrate mathematics into mathematics. In other schools they wanted to make it a separate subject. You can do both. Usually the mathematics or economics teachers were asked to give the course. There are also schools where one has chosen to blur mathematics with subjects such as history, geography, physics or chemistry. After all, these subjects often include calculation. So one can shape it in different ways. Contrary to compulsory subjects such as mathematics and English, which need to be given as a separate subject, we have given schools greater freedom for computational education. Did we neglect it? No, I don't think so. It is the consequence of the free space we have given the schools to implement the profession themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u162	I could have imagined that the qualifications of the staff in charge of calculating education were required and that it was then left to the school to deal with it further. The Secretary of State now explicitly mentions pabo-teachers who can teach mathematics in secondary education. This illustrates, in my view, that the proposal is not well thought out. When schools employ pabo teachers, the percentage of unauthorized teachers increases, and we didn't want that to happen. There must be clarity about this in order to give a responsible form to the education of mathematics.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u163	The schools have asked us to release them in the way they organise computational education. With additional computational training and with calculation coordinators, many schools have handled it in a very good way. Not everyone has hired an elementary school teacher to do this. We see that especially in the vmbo. That is where the problem is broader anyway, because the basic skills in language and mathematics of VMBO students really need to be improved. Sometimes students are left behind what you can expect from someone who's been through elementary school. A number of schools have indicated that we need to see if we can give more room for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u164	I think you'd already had three interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u165	No, this is gonna be the third time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u166	Would you be very brief, because I thought you'd already had three. It's all taking quite a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u167	No, and besides, it's my first interruption. I'm always very sparing with it. I would like to stress to the Secretary of State that this illustrates that one of the key responsibilities of the government, the regulation of educational competence, must be properly regulated before you can take any further steps. I consider that this point should first be adequately dealt with. What is allowed and what is not allowed? We need to indicate the bandwidths and then let the schools figure out how they're doing it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u168	These bandwidths are clear in that they can be taught by economics, mathematics and geography teachers. In addition, there are several training courses and training courses to ensure that teachers have the didactic skills in order. Several schools have asked us to give some more space to work with pabo teachers. This applies not only to mathematics, but also to a number of other subjects. I think that has been discussed before in a debate. I have already promised that I will look at it with a serious and careful eye. What Mr Bishop is proposing, I think we are going to do in the very short term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u169	Please continue answering the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u170	Mr Rog and Mr Van Dijk have asked what has been invested in computing in recent years. There have been investments on a number of fronts, particularly in the schools themselves. In recent years, schools in secondary education, as well as in MBO, have received additional funding from the Ministry of Education to work on language and computational education. Over the whole period 2010-2015 it amounts to some 360 million, of which 60 million have been specifically traced to computational education within the performance box. Before the MBO, that basis was a little wider. That's what about $300 million went into math and language. In addition, money was spent for the test itself, for the development of the test by the College for Keys and Exams. The figure is 7 million a year. When I look at it that way, there is a majority in the Chamber in favour of having the test count in the vwo, where the performance of the students is really very good. Teachers at the vwo sometimes say that the test is almost an insult to their students, because they go through it with great ease. What happens for students with dyscalculie, the dyslexia variant of mathematics? A separate test has been developed for them, in addition to all the extra opportunities and opportunities they will get next year anyway, just like all the other students. That test has been tested and is valid. In addition, an additional possibility has been added, a fourth chance to take the ER test orally if, for example, the failure of the digital calculation key proves inappropriate. For this particular target group there are now additional ways to ensure that they too can pass the test. For students with dyslexia we have also created these kinds of adaptations during the Dutch and English exams.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u171	The Secretary of State says that there is no majority for the calculation test and its inclusion in the vmbo and havo. For the vwo he sees that majority and he wants to maintain the test, even though we know that the test does not cause so many problems there. Mr Grashoff rightly said that the test in the vwo does not have much added value. Isn't it strange to maintain that test?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u172	The Minister and I are in favour of introducing the overall calculation test. We think it's possible, that it's responsible and that it's good. I would like that to be widely supported in the Chamber. Then we can take really big steps. I note that this support is not there for the Havo and VMBO. I very much regret that, and I think it is unwise, but well, we live in a democracy and we have to deal with it. I think it is the least we can do in the vwo, also part of our proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u173	You could turn it around, too. The Secretary of State isn't happy about it. That is his right, but indeed we live in a democracy. Isn't it inconsistent? Isn't there going to be a very lame introduction: not in the vmbo and the havo, but in the vwo? Can't the Secretary of State just sit back and wait for the whole thing to get in order and do it right in one go?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u174	I don't see any reason for that. Again, we want to do it across the board. I also hear a majority in the Chamber say that it wants to continue with the calculation test. We do not question the instrument of the calculation test, but we think it is too early to start doing so already in the Havo and VWO. We need to look closely at the consequences, because we still have the ambition that the overall calculation level will be in order by 2020. Perhaps we are ready for it at another time, that is to say, when the Chamber sees that we have taken steps in the vwo and that it is moving in the right direction. However, you should also be willing to put the line in the learning path where we now see that the vast majority of the students are able to make it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u175	I certainly do not share the view that this calculation test would be a good means and that we should just wait and see. There is an enormous amount of criticism of this calculation test. Anyway, we disagree on that. I have one more question. The test is now abolished in the exam of vmbo and havo. Does the Secretary of State share my view that the test should not be on the diploma, even if it doesn't count?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u176	No. I did not hear Mrs Jadnansing say that, either in response to the debate or at least to a change in this debate. I heard her say that the math test should not be included in the bag/layer control. I regret that, but I still think it is a good thing that students of VMBO and HAVO make the calculation test and that it will also be on the diploma. That means an extra incentive to at least try a little, because you'll see it again. You can also get a 2 or a 1 and then you have it. I regret that, and I would have preferred it to be different, but it is an incentive for pupils if they do have to take that test and if it comes back to the diploma, also because it makes it clear for further education with which baggage a student enters. This can then be taken into account and perhaps revised.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u177	I think it is a somewhat optimistic summary by the secretary of the views of this Chamber on the continuation of the calculation test. We'll see about that by then. There will be elections, for example. Soon we will formally find that the calculation test has no consequences in the vmbo and the havo, but according to the secretary of state in the vwo. I wonder if the Secretary of State has checked whether that is legally sustainable. Can he introduce a calculation test which has such extremely different consequences in three sectors, all of which fall under his system responsibility?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u178	I'd look into that, but I don't see one-two-three a huge problem there. The boxes in the havo and vwo also differ and other requirements are made. There are several courses and exams in the vwo that you do not have in the havo. It's all possible. I don't see why the math test couldn't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u179	But that is precisely the difference in opinion with the Secretary of State, because he wants to introduce this subject at all levels. He wants that test to be considered everywhere, so in that sense it's similar to any other exam. Only in those other subjects the consequences are the same in the different departments, but for this "box" do not count. There will be huge differences. I understand that the Secretary of State cannot answer that now, but I would like to ask him whether he can address the question of whether this is legally sustainable before all the votes on the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u180	As I indicated, I do not foresee any problems here, but I am, of course, prepared to double-check it and send the results to the Chamber in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u181	Can we do that before Tuesday's votes?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u182	Of course. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Dijk asked me to look again at the reference levels. Many experts have looked at this and it was well thought out in 2008 and therefore I do not think it is appropriate to adjust these levels before they have even been introduced. Mr Bishop asked a number of questions about the use of the calculator. Not only the use of the calculator is tested, as it is also a tool for some of the context questions. The essence of these questions is not so much the calculation that you have to make with that calculator as the thinking steps underlying it. How do I calculate an area? How do I calculate speeds per hour based on time and distance? Those are things that are part of math, and I think students should have mastered them. Mr Bishop asked another question about the paper test. Mr Bosker has made a recommendation on this. In fact, the conclusion is that the benefits of a paper calculation test do not outweigh the disadvantages. The profit of the digital test is that teachers have less correction work, that it is flexible to plan and that the re-use of some of the tests is guaranteed. The results of the research we carried out on the Bosker Committee show that students do not benefit from a paper test. It is not made better or worse than a digital key. That is why we are abstaining from the introduction of a paper test. With this I answered one question after the questions about the calculation test. That is Mr Rog's question about the September route. Students who passed a five for the calculation test last year and did not comply with the core subject scheme did not receive a diploma in August/September. These students were subject to the rules of 2015 and 2016. There are colleges that have admitted these students, even though they did not have a diploma, because they met all subjects. If the Chamber adopts the motion that hangs in the air, there will be a new situation. We will amend the rules accordingly. In advance, we will act in the spirit of those rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u183	Apparently, not all questions about the math test have been answered yet. Mr Grashoff, you have not yet received an answer to a question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u184	The Secretary of State triggered me when he said that the results of the calculation test are mentioned on the diploma, although they do not count for the bag/layer scheme. Probably it won't come to that, but in the documents I read that there would be a very complicated arrangement with admission requirements for VMBO students who want to move on to HBO. The reason for this is the inequality with havists. This situation may not arise in the near future, but this is where admission requirements are discussed. In the MBO a lot of space is taken to let students in or not. The inclusion of the figure for the calculation test could therefore be regarded as an admission requirement, even if it is not intended for that purpose at all. I refer the Secretary of State to the Klever/Mohandis motion of 10 February 2015 (31332, nr. 49). The motion calls on the government not to agree to additional admission requirements, except for pabo- and teacher training, where these specific issues arise, in order to make secondary vocational education and higher education accessible. May I ask the Secretary of State whether the implementation of this motion is still fully maintained?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u185	This concerns the flow to higher education. I think the Minister will say something about this later. The proposals we put forward in our letter do not relate at all to the transition from secondary education to MBO, because in the MBO you cannot impose access requirements. I think it's good for the MBO to see where a student is when he enters the MBO. I would have preferred that to happen with a diploma, so that the MBO knows where students stand and can also meet its maintenance obligation in terms of keeping the calculation level in order. However, as long as this does not yet count for your diploma in VMBO, we must all accept it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u186	Mr. Grashoff?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u187	I will leave it at that for now; perhaps I will come back to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u188	I'm gonna ask you a quick question. The Secretary of State has just said that the ER test will do. However, we have heard from a large number of experts that the ER test is not satisfactory. Among other things, the Dutch Association of Mathematics Teachers indicates that the ER test does not meet when it comes to young people with dyscalculie. Can the Secretary of State clarify why, in his opinion, this test is satisfactory?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u189	The CvTE tested that in students. The test appears to be a solution for them. Now one student with dyscalculie is not the other; hence the extra possibility of giving them the chance to take an oral exam if students with dyscalculie could not make up for that test. This really offers a way out and plenty of opportunities, including for this particular target group, to eventually achieve that level with all kinds of adjustments.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u190	I'll leave it at that, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u191	I understand you have more answers to give, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u192	I know it's late, but I'm looking at Mr Grashoff, who challenged me to reflect on the usefulness and necessity of tests more generally.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u193	Actually, I wouldn't do that for what it is, with your permission.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u194	Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u195	Mr Grashoff, we are not going at this time...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u196	On a point of order, Mr President. This debate is called 'test culture'...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u197	I was still speaking, Mr Grashoff. I'm asking the Secretary of State to answer the questions. This debate is not intended to have very large reflections on education as such. You can make a point of order; of course, that is your right. But I do point out that it is almost 11 p.m. and that we are not supposed to philosophize here until deep into the night.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u198	That may be the case, but this debate was announced under the title of "test culture and calculation test." I therefore attach great importance to the fact that the Secretary of State also responds to my comments and questions in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u199	Of course, the Secretary of State can answer your questions. That's what he's gonna do. But you have been given eight minutes' speaking time, in particular because two debates have been brought together. Those speaking times have been used in full. I ask the Secretary of State to answer the questions as briefly and concisely as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u200	I would like to begin by saying that Mr Grashoff is always talking about the usefulness and necessity of tests. Not for nothing have I called the letter "nut and value of review." Necessity suggests or implies that it is something that is imposed from above or from outside. This is not at all the case in the vast majority of primary and secondary school tests. Assessment is a very useful tool for teachers to see where pupils stand and how they deal with it. Just look at the types of review that exist in schools, from interviews and dictations to practical assignments, profile workpieces, presentations, book reports and so on. In my view, testing is an inherent part of good education, which carries out different tasks. Mr Grashoff challenged me to reflect on these tasks. What do we do it all for? I agree with him that this is primarily for the pupils, to follow their learning progress, so that they can receive tailored education and ensure the flow and connection to further education. This way you guarantee that at the end of the primary school you will be ready for the transition to secondary education and at the end of the VMBO or the HAVO for the MBO or the HBO. However, I go a little further than Mr Grashoff, who suggests that scrutiny is only for the students and that will stop. I think tests have two other important functions. Firstly, testing can contribute to an improvement culture at school. Through insights into test results, they see how it goes. They can learn a thing or two. They may also see the parts in their profession and in their lessons that remain underexposed and that the students as a class do not have sufficient skills. It is important to keep an eye on this improvement culture in schools. Secondly, there are tests that monitor the level of our education. This happens at least at two important moments: at the end of primary school, in primary school, with the final test and at the end of secondary school with the central exams. Both levels of education are concluded with a national final test, which is also used by the inspection to assess the level of education in schools. I think the government's all very reluctant about these national commitments. Only at two crucial points of interconnection does the government consciously take care of a national mandatory test. Between these points, it is free and schools can do it in their own way. Internationally, this is well appreciated. The OECD has said a number of things about this and considers that the Netherlands has a very good balance between central evaluation at the end of school levels and great freedom and autonomy for schools between them. Mr Grashoff also asked how to avoid too much focus on the core subjects. You do that by looking wide, even as an inspection. Hence a number of changes are currently taking place within the inspection. It looks more broadly than just the measurable learning outcomes on the final examinations and the final test. Secondly, you avoid too much focus on the core subjects by giving education a broad mandate. That is precisely why we have started the whole process of education2032. In terms of language and mathematics, we have defined very precisely what the reference levels are and what children have to meet, but in a number of other areas this is much less the case. Take citizenship, for example, or take skills; I heard Mr Grashoff say something about that. Schools ask what exactly is expected of them and what children should receive in primary education in the area of citizenship. In fact, we are not very clear about that. The resultant thing is that we are doing very badly in the Netherlands compared to many countries around us. When we look at international research into the skills and knowledge of citizenship and the functioning of the democratic rule of law, we see that there are a lot of countries that we can still learn from. I think it would be a good idea to talk about this widely with education. Shouldn't you be giving this more hands and feet? Shouldn't you better record that broad assignment of education in the formal curriculum? Mr Grashoff asks about all new tests. I can reassure him. There are currently no plans to introduce new keys. We have just had a discussion about the calculation test. This is, of course, something that dates back to the past. The obligation for schools to participate in OECD research is contained in the bill that I said we would freeze for a moment. Maybe there's another way to do it. I think it's very good for schools to participate. If we have good arguments, we can also convince them. I think that this is a brief reflection of the very interesting debate which Mr Grashoff has initiated, in my view.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u201	Just a brief word, Mr Grashoff, because you have already had two interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u202	I did not dispute in my speech that tests are useful in education. No one's arguing that we're graduating from high school. I made a specific point about the Cito test and the use of the Cito test in primary education. Does the Secretary of State agree with me that the use of the Cito test for comparing schools is inappropriate? Does he agree with me that it would be wise to put in place such a mechanism that he can no longer be used for it, but that he is available to the student, parent and teacher?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u203	I do not agree with Mr Grashoff, who says that comparisons between schools based on the Cito test or the final test are inappropriate. It is one of the anchors the inspection looks at when it comes to learning outcomes, which is a necessity in law to see how schools do it. The inspection does that in a very intelligent way. For example, a school from Benoordenhout is not compared to a disadvantaged school from the Schilderswijk. It looks at the population at a school and it is corrected accordingly. It then looks at how the school is doing in relation to another school. I don't think it's crazy when the inspection says it's time for a tough conversation if a school does it in the areas of language and math significantly worse than its neighbor, with the same population of students. At least that school will have to look at what is happening there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u204	No, you've already had two interruptions, Mr Grashoff. I've been very generous. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his reply and give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u205	Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of State has already answered a lot of questions. I would like to add a number of answers, particularly those relating to MBO and the transition from VBO and MBO to higher education. Let me begin by stating that language and computing skills are important for all students and students. You need them in further education, in the profession and for functioning in society. My starting point is that every student has a right to good arithmetic education. In recent years, the government has therefore been committed to improving computational education. For me, for us, the cabinet has always been at the heart of trying to put the mathematics of children and young people in order in the Netherlands. That goal stands and stands. I would add that the calculation test should not be an end in itself. It's a means, not an end in itself. In fact, we have always said that pupils should not suffer from poor computational education or shortcomings in the test. In the year when the test has to be included in the MBO for the first time, I note that this condition has not been met. The Secretary of State and I have carefully reviewed and weighed the data and we do not think it is justified at this time. I say this in particular to Mrs Straus and Mr Beertema. The causes of the lagging performance are diverse. An important reason is that in recent years too many students with a deficit of calculation have entered the MBO from the vo. Professionals can do a lot, but even then they can't break iron with hands. They must, that's always been the deal, have a maintenance obligation. They should now pay for all students a catch-up obligation. Another reason is that the institutions have difficulty finding good mathematicians. Despite the support we have provided for this in recent years, some MBO institutions are not yet able to deploy adequate calculation teachers. As the Secretary of State has just said, this can also be done in the field of vocational training and, in particular, in the field of vocational training. This means that computational education is not good enough everywhere. I was shocked, for example, that one third of students in CvTE surveys indicated that they did not have a computerized education in preparation for the mathematics examination. That's serious. I heard Mrs Jadnansing in an interruption asking what that was like. There is also room for improvement, but that is about students who say they are not well prepared for the calculation test. That's about 46% to 48%. A third of the MBO students say they didn't have any maths. That's alarming. I know that it is a challenge for MBO institutions to appoint good math teachers, but I find it unacceptable that we have so much resources at our disposal and that we now have to conclude that there is not enough challenge for students. We believe that students should not suffer from poor mathematics. That is why the Secretary of State and I have chosen not to include the result of the mathematics examination in the coming years for the purposes of obtaining the diploma. At the same time, despite the difficulties, I see that much has happened in recent times. There are schools that are doing their best. I attended Summa College on the initiative of the JOB itself, a school that really does a lot to promote language and computational education. I note that economic and technical training is going well there. However, the teachers who do everything in their power say that there is still a world to be won in training care and well-being in order to develop good educational material to keep these pupils, who have not been included in computational education for a long time, in the sense that they receive good computational education. In addition, there are other challenges in the MBO, such as central exams. They're new to the MBO. It is a big change to introduce it in such a diverse sector. I already mentioned the math teachers. This is particularly important in vocational training. For example, in the case of care and well-being, it is not obvious to give the hairdresser a calculation lesson. This is different in terms of technology and other training. The diversity of the MBO is a relevant factor. Having said that, we believe that more needs to be done, that pressure should be kept on the boiler and that it should in some respects be strengthened.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u206	I would like to stress the Minister's last point, but I would like to ask her a question on two points. She says that the MBO actually only has a maintenance obligation. I don't agree with her, because we also have the MBO-4 in the MBO. The MBO-4 leads to the HBO and requires an extra effort. On this point, too, I see insufficient progress in the MBO. I'd like to get a response from the Minister. In addition, the Minister states that it is difficult to find accountants in the MBO. Last year, at the round table on computational education, this was a well-known problem. We've been a year. While it was of the utmost importance that also in the MBO progression would be shown in mathematics, this argument is again taken out of the box. In fact, we think that it is too late. We have not heard the MBO about this earlier this year, but the Minister has made funds available for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u207	Let me start with the latter. Even if you have resources at your disposal, you didn't just train good math teachers. The Secretary of State has just indicated that this is also the case in the VMBO. We're now finding out that pabo teachers can teach mathematics well. They can give some of the mathematics in the VMBO and part of the MBO. In teacher training, we simply do not have any courses in arithmetic. We can perhaps all say that we should have done this three or four years ago, but we did not. So we do not have enough mathematics teachers at the moment. On the first point, I agree with Mrs Straus that you need to reach another level for mbo-4. However, if the level of students coming from the university is not already at 2F, it will be difficult. Then you'll have to catch up more than just that one blow in Mbo-4. That, in my opinion, keeps my argument really up to date.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u208	About those mathematicians: that pabo teachers could do very well was also discussed in that round table last year. At that time, there were already MBO courses that employ people with a pabo-training to give this education. This does not need to be noted a year later. You could have done that a long time ago. As far as we are concerned, it would have been a best practice that could have been given to all the MBOs who would have come to the Minister with this response. We are simply very sorry that we have actually lost a year and have not gone beyond the same conclusion, namely that it is difficult in the MBO to find accountants. After all, there was a solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u209	In my opinion, the Secretary of State has just said that this problem is also at VMBO. We can all find this annoying, but we do not have teacher training courses that only teach arithmetic. In a lot of schools, I understand that too, and I have seen it in several MBO schools, trying to teach teachers who teach other subjects in order to give good arithmetical education. We note that in one case this can be done better than in another and that pabo-students can contribute to this. We see that there are schools that use them. However, we have not yet directly created a comprehensive supply of sufficient teachers with each other. The reality is sometimes more rigid than perhaps we here in The Hague think with each other. That means there's still real work to be done. I wholeheartedly agree with Mrs Straus. We are therefore taking a number of measures to this end. Let me start with that. So what are we gonna do? There will be an action plan on mathematics MBO. This means that in the coming years students will take the math exam and that the result during this period will also be shown on the results list at the diploma. That's new for the MBO, I say. We are going, learning from what we have done in the vsv approach, to launch an action plan on mathematics MBO. This is based on an ambitious target for 2020. In any case, 95% of students must reach at least a 5. I would add, however, that the changing attitude of the Chamber may mean that we also have to set our ambitions. If we no longer take the test in all training courses, I can see that a majority is in favour of this, then this will also have consequences for the MBO. At least I want to keep the pressure on it. We are going to look at results by institution and by level in the framework of the Action Plan. It is particularly important to also look at the sector, because technology and care and well-being really are worlds of difference. We are going to look at whether we can also map out what improvements are to be achieved in the field of learning. We will address schools that are lagging behind in improving mathematics education through the Support Point Language & Mathematics MBO. That support is being stepped up. We are doing this together with the JOB and we are going to look into whether it is useful, in the context of the quality agreements, the result dependent part, to talk to MBO schools even more about language and computational education. I've already talked about the teachers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u210	I have a question for the Minister about what she says about the MBO and what it says in the letter. The Chamber received a letter from the MBO Council. I assume the Minister saw a copy of that. The MBO Council, for example, writes in that letter that it does not recognize itself at all in the image that is now being sketched of the MBO. One-sided measures are called what the Minister wants to do in the direction of the MBO. It's frustrating, too, and it's a breach of an administrative agreement. I thought that was quite a firm letter. I look forward to hearing the Minister's views on that letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u211	That letter surprised me a bit, because for me it is the first thing that students need to be educated in mathematics. That's all I care about. The JOB and MBO students also say that very emphatically. I have said that many schools are already taking action, but that this is not enough, and that there is therefore a need to step up, and that I will appeal to the MBO institutions and therefore also to the MBO Council.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u212	Can we then assume that the Minister will hold consultations with the MBO Council in response to this letter? It seems very bad to me if the Minister and the MBO Council go out of line on this front. This is a matter that will have to be dealt with jointly. If the MBO Council says that the Minister is violating an agreement and paints a one-sided picture of the issues that the MBO Council is working on, this will lead to frustrations. That way, we will be in real trouble. I am therefore asking the Minister, but perhaps I will open the door with this in order to enter into the consultations and see if she can agree with the MBO Council on the approach of the calculation test and calculation education. I don't think things are going very well right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u213	I would like to talk to the MBO Council and the MBO institutions. I have just said that we will also address the institutions individually. I'm not violating an administrative agreement. The letter states that we will see whether, if it is not fast enough, arithmetical education can be included in the result-dependent components. That's not an announcement of breaking the board agreement. In my turn, I think that the letter from the MBO Council is somewhat out of the question: if you give us the means now, then everything will be fine. I have also heard a number of members of the Chamber say that there can be a tooth. I do not agree with Mrs Straus on parts, but I agree with her, especially in view of the resources that the MBO schools have received, that there is no reason to sit back or to act without commitment. That is why I am announcing the action plan. I believe that we can appeal to the MBO institutions on their responsibility. In my turn, I would like to listen to the serious problems they have, for example with the demands that must be made of teachers, exams and other matters. We have to take into account the particular task of MBO to train professionals in many different training courses, but I also appeal to the MBO institutions to improve computational education.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u214	It is clear what the Minister thinks, but it is also clear what the MBO Council thinks. There's a lot of light in there. I would be pleased if, after the discussion with the MBO Council has taken place, the Chamber would receive an impact of that discussion. We would like to receive that report for the budgetary procedure, so that we can perhaps come back to it at that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u215	I am not going to send a report from each individual consultation to the Chamber. I don't think that's useful. In that case, I must send an individual letter from any administrative consultation I have with the various sectors. At the end of this debate, however, we need to look at the opinion of the Chamber, with a view to the way in which the Secretary of State and I continue with the education of calculation. Of course, I am prepared to explain in a letter the consultations I will have with the MBO Council and also with the JOB, in order to see what steps we will take towards the MBO. I would like to do so in an integral letter and not in a letter following a separate consultation with a dome.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u216	It is not a point if it is taken into account in another letter, but I think it is important that we should be able to take this issue further in the budgetary procedure. I see too much light between the approach advocated by the Minister and the judgement of the MBO Council. I think it is important to try to make that light mark a little smaller.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u217	Your request is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u218	In 2007, not only education was the emergency clock on education, but also further training in higher education and employers did so. Now I hear the Minister say that she wants to involve former pupils in order to emphasise the importance of computational education in the MBO. Why does it not include higher education and employers? On the contrary, they attach importance to improving the teaching of mathematics.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u219	That's a very good suggestion. We can take it with us. But we know from the students on the MBO that they find it especially interesting to listen to peers, peers, who often better indicate the importance than people who are at a greater distance. The question is whether that works when it comes to HBO in general or employers in general, but I would like to take that suggestion with me. Everything that works and fits in with the experience of the students in the MBO I like to consider.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u220	I thank the Minister for this commitment, if I may take it that way. Our experience has shown that young people are also very sensitive to what young entrepreneurs, in particular, expect, who are only a short while away from their businesses and who are looking for new employees. I understand that the Minister says that we should not just keep a general story with umbrella organisations of entrepreneurs. No, as far as we're concerned, it's and-and. It is therefore a question of using both the follow-up courses closest to the MBO students and the former pupils of the relevant training, but also the entrepreneurs who are active in the region or who have only recently completed their training, to highlight the importance of computational education.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u221	I think Mrs Straus and I will get very close together. When I talk about former students, I am talking about former students who, like no other, can declare the importance of good mathematics education. These can very well be former students who then started a business, and thus convince the current MBO students like no other of the importance of good mathematics education. I will continue my speech. Mrs Straus also asked how we would inform the Chamber of progress. I have just said to Mr Slob that we will be monitoring progress very closely. In recent years, we have always informed the Chamber about this. We will also do so on a regular basis for vo and mbo. In the letter we also announced that we would have the inspection examine how the resources for language and mathematics have been spent in recent years. In this context, the Secretary of State has already discussed the various amounts. I would like to comment on Mrs Straus' question concerning the OECD research and the quote she gave us. I fully agree with Mrs Straus that good computational education is of enormous importance to all pupils. That is also what the article to which it refers. The OECD notes that students from low socio-economic classes are more often confronted with higher-quality mathematics content at school. It also notes that a substantial part of the gap between the mathematics results of low and high economic classes is related to those inequalities in the content of the curriculum. It is precisely for this reason that we are committed to improving the teaching of mathematics from po to mbo. However, I do think that Mrs Straus does not fully reflect the article because it seems to be in her wording that it is about computational education as such. She says it would be unequal if you didn't test everyone equally. This, while the article deals with unequal access to computational education. That brings me to the conclusion that the quality of computational education is of the utmost importance. It is necessary to ensure that all students have equal access to it. This leads to the conclusion that it is not now justified in the MBO to include maths in the bag/layer scheme. However, the conclusion of the article is that it is very important for every child to achieve the best results in school that teachers believe that these children can also succeed. The article calls for very rich teaching materials to be offered to all pupils. I therefore believe that MBO students are entitled to this, even when it comes to computational education, which is linked to the discipline they are pursuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u222	I feel addressed, Mr President, so I hope I can make another point. The Minister's quote doesn't match what I said. All I have said is that poor mathematics leads to greater inequality. It is not about the test as such, but about poor computational education. We set the link to the key as being the pressure that has to remain on the boiler to get this done. However, these are two different things.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u223	I heard something else. In any case, the article is not about testing. The article deals with unequal access to computational education and to high-quality computational education. I draw the conclusion from this that we must do everything we can to ensure that all pupils and students receive a high-quality education in mathematics. That's what the Secretary of State and I are working on. Finally, I come to the questions relating to transit. Mr Beertema asked what is the situation when computing skills are needed for the exercise of a profession. Of course, it must be given the highest priority that students can count and that they must demonstrate this in the MBO. That is one of the reasons why we are now moving on to put the calculation results on the list of results of the diploma. This gives insight for the follow-up training. Mr Grashoff asked for that. He also referred to the previous Klever/Mohandis motion, which calls on the government not to agree to additional admission requirements, except for pabo and teacher training. Now that we have decided that the diploma for the MBO can be obtained in the coming years regardless of the outcome of the calculation examination, there is another situation. Because of the comparability of the diplomas between HAVO and MBO-4, and in order to prevent large differences from arising in the flow to HBO with regard to the computational skills of the incoming students, we have decided to apply inflow requirements to MBO students for calculating heavy sectors, so that their position remains aligned with the HAVO. That's what the Chamber was able to read in the letter. If it were to be decided not to include the result of the diploma in the next few years, another situation would arise. This will also reduce the flow limitation for the MBO. Because why did we do this? To prevent the MBO from being assessed differently and given a different connection than the HAVO. I just want to say that we still have the motion in hand. This brings me to the end of my reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u224	I thank the Minister for her reply. We shall proceed to the second term of the Chamber. I propose a short second term, especially for tabling motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u225	Mr. Chairman. It is regrettable that, even with long speaking time, it is not possible to have a real debate on the culture of testing and to go into depth. That's life, so I'll do it with it. However, I would like to mention it. I shall now confine myself to tabling a few motions, which, by the way, deal more broadly with testing culture. Others will put forward specific motions on the calculation test, in which we are co-signatory or will wholeheartedly support them. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas habo-schools are now free to impose additional requirements on intromers who hold a VMBO-TL and VMBO-GL diploma, such as an average final figure and positive dean advice;]] [[noting that the Education Council indicates that these transitional standards or admission requirements have led to arbitrariness and that pupils are only told at a late stage whether they have been admitted;]] [[whereas in the Netherlands the final level is determined centrally and you should be able to go to the HAVO if you have a VMBO diploma;]] [[calls on the Government to give pupils with a VMBO and VMBO diplomas the right to transfer to the HAVO,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that the final test in primary education is intended to measure the development and progress of the pupil rather than to determine the quality of a school;]] [[Considers that the final test in primary education is personal and should therefore only be comprehensible to pupils, parents and teachers;]] [[calls on the Government not to share with the educational inspection the individual results of the final tests in primary education,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the education inspection assesses schools on "efficiency in the sub-structure," looking at up and down flow and the number of sitters;]] [[Considers that assessment of under-building efficiency entails negative perverse effects and that this indicator does not say anything about the quality of education;]] [[calls on the government to stop assessing schools on "substrate efficiency,"]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grashoff, Mr Van Meenen, Mr Slob and Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31332-53]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grashoff and Mr Van Meenen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31332-54]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grashoff and Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31332-55]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u226	Mr. Chairman. This was an extremely disappointing debate. We didn't make it any further than yesterday, at least until now. I was hoping you would. It is extremely disappointing to note that, in particular, the Secretary of State knows no neighborhoods. He goes on and wants to continue on his way to a math test. The arguments he has put forward for this are mainly a huge distrust of teacher, school and student. Nor does the Secretary of State seriously address the proposal of the Dutch Association of Mathematics Teachers. I read on the site of De Telegraaf that the VVD is in the process of putting the minister under curatel. In my group's view, it would be better if the VVD were put under curatel on this subject. I'm filing two motions. The first concerns the express wish of what I call the 'calculation key opposition'. It may also be called the "anti-calculation test coalition." It is sufficiently clear that a number of parties in this Chamber want to get rid of this accounting test. That's what we're gonna try to achieve with this motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas good computational education is in the interests of each pupil;]] [[Whereas the intended design of the calculation test and its inclusion in the pocket/slag scheme do not promote good computational education;]] [[Whereas it is precisely the most vulnerable pupils in vo and mbo who will be the victims;]] [[calls on the Government to refrain from introducing the calculation test,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van Meenen, Mr Rog, Mr Jasper van Dijk, Mr Grashoff, Mr Slob and Mr Bishop.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31332-56]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u227	The Labour Party will shortly make a proposal in which it will adopt its own position as a ruling of the Chamber. This is mainly about the VMBO and the HAVO. My group will support that proposal, as a sort of click fund, to record this result in any case. It is clear, however, that we believe that this should also apply to the vwo, hence the next motion for a resolution. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to refrain from introducing the calculation test as part of the allowance/low-rate scheme in the vwo, as long as the calculation education is not yet in order,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Meenen, Rog and Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31332-57]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u228	Madam President. I would like to thank both directors for their first-term response. I do not have any motions of my own, but I have signed a number of motions from colleagues. I do not rule out supporting other motions, because in this debate the Chamber will have to make statements. As the contributions in the first period show, there is no majority in favour of what the cabinet stands for. In this respect, I would like to express my surprise and a little respect towards the Secretary of State. It was already clear to the debate that he did not get any support for what he wanted, namely a full introduction of the compulsory calculation test in secondary education. Yet he continued to explain why he considers it important. He could of course also have chosen the attitude you sometimes see with cyclists. When they are at full speed and suddenly encounter an obstacle on the road, they squeeze their brakes to see how they can proceed in a good way. If they don't, they can hit something head-on. With cycling it can have the necessary consequences. However, politically speaking, it is ultimately the Chamber that decides against the cabinet what it wants. If the Chamber later decides not to want the calculation test in this way, I assume that the cabinet will accept it and act on it further. One thing I noticed further. It has to do with the Labour Party. This week, she was given a different view on the basis of documents she received. I have asked for it, but I have not made it clear what exactly the benchmark has been on the basis of which it considers that it can be done with the vwo and not with Havo and vmbo. I think it is important to be clear about this, because it is possible that new situations will arise which will allow it to have a completely different attitude. I assume that we will not find ourselves in the situation in the shortest possible time that we will suddenly have a mandatory calculation test for HAVO and VMBO if the results get a little better, so that we will be free of that in the near future. I'd like to close with the following. Let us simply devote all the energy but also financial resources to improving computational education. Because in spite of the differences in the calculation test, I think we are all in agreement on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u229	Mr. Chairman. A good step has been taken with yesterday's news that the calculation key goes out of vmbo, havo and mbo's pocket/layer control. It is a small step, because, according to my group, it should also be taken out of vwo. That is why I have signed Mr Van Meenen's motion. It would be very nice if that motion made it. I now come to the mention of the figure on the diploma. Mr President, I hope you will forgive me, but my motion is still on my table. I'm gonna get it now; I'm gonna make it in time. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas a majority of the Chamber opposes the calculation test as part of the bag/layer scheme in vmbo, havo and mbo;]] [[considers that pupils should not suffer from inadequate arithmetical education;]] [[calls on the Government to realise that the result of the calculation test is not mentioned on the diploma,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31332-58]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u230	Finally, I would like to say the following in order to clarify our position on this calculation test. There is nothing against tests, as I have said many times, but this calculation test is not right. I would like to illustrate this with a tweet by Mrs Karin den Heijer. She is a math teacher and tweets: "But what are we talking about? My students say this: Two-thirds of the questions were with calculator. Some questions you could interpret in different ways. I was meant to be clockwise. [...] With many questions, it was unclear how many decimal places you had to complete. I had to measure from the screen. I tried it with a leaf. It was unclear whether a given price of a product was inclusive or exclusive discount. I had to count blocks from a building of blocks. I had to suck out how many inhabitants of the Netherlands had in 2013. In a task you had to invent for yourself what the contents of a lemonade glass was." Et cetera. This goes without saying, doesn't it? This math test is not justified. Stop it!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u231	Mr. Chairman. The math key isn't right. Mr Van Dijk has given a few fine examples of this. I myself had a number in my first term. I'll be back on the ER test. If the ER test is so great, why does only a third of the students taking this test have a 6 or higher? That's a lot less than the usual math test. I would be very grateful if the Secretary of State would respond in the second term to the criticism of Professor Luit who makes it clear that students with dyscalculie differ too much to maintain the ER test. The CDA wants to adjust the test. That is why we have co-signed a number of motions tabled by Mr Van Meenen. I have three more motions of my own. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that good computational education belongs to primary school, but that we should always have the ambition to further improve computational skills, including in secondary and secondary education;]] [[Whereas it is important to involve the educational field, and in particular the Dutch Association of Mathematics Teachers, NVvW;]] [[calls on the government, in consultation with the field of education, and in particular with the NVVW, to develop a sectoral approach to improving and ensuring computational skills,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas lessons should be drawn from the process of introducing the calculation test;]] [[Whereas the field of education, including VO-Council, PO-Council, AOb, FvOv, CNV Education, LAKS, JOB, Parents & Education, the Dutch Association of Mathematics Teachers and experts in this field, has turned massively against taking the calculation test in its present form into the pocket/layer scheme;]] [[Whereas the government has, over the past period, sent very frequently very variable signals as to whether or not the calculation test would be considered in the bag/layer/scheme, whether or not it would be part of the core subject scheme and which figure would be considered sufficient, creating a great deal of unnecessary unrest among pupils, teachers and parents;]] [[calls on the government, in future, to implement policy changes in education only after a well-founded problem analysis has been carried out, there is sufficient involvement and support in the field of education and sufficient time for its introduction,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Rog, Mr Van Meenen, Mr Jasper van Dijk, Mr Bishop, Mr Slob, Mr Grashoff and Mr Jadnansing.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31332-59]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Rog, Mr Van Meenen, Mr Jasper van Dijk, Mr Bishop, Mr Slob and Mr Grashoff.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31332-60]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u232	Very briefly, I need another 20 seconds. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the uncertainty as to whether and, if so, how the calculation test would count in school exams led to an error of assessment by pupils who have passed a figure less than 5 for the calculation test, provided that they fulfilled all other requirements for taking part in the September examination;]] [[Considering that candidates who are not admitted to the September examination solely because they have obtained a figure below 5 for the calculation test should be allowed to take part in a "November examination";]] [[calls on the Government to do everything in its power to ensure that schools organise a November exam for these pupils and to call on the disabled students to sign up for it,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Rog. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31332-61]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u233	Mr. Chairman. I thank both directors for their answers, which unfortunately will not lead to better education in the Netherlands. On the contrary, the calculation test is postponed and possibly even abolished, although the Secretary of State is courageous. I appreciate that. There are a lot of good practices, as the Minister has mentioned a number of them. Any sensible driver should say: come on, we're going to look at those best practices and we're going to learn from them. But the PvdA and the opposition choose to postpone the calculation test and possibly even abolish it. They do that cheerfully, as if a victory has been won. That's extremely depressing. The original intention of the debate was to discuss the usefulness and necessity of testing. The PVV continues to believe that testing plays an essential role in our education system, not as an objective, but as a means of improving education. By left-wing groups, keys are put away as a checkout tool.......................................................................................................................................................................................... It's about differentiation and tailored education. Based on data, you have to continually adapt your education to the needs of students. You can get rid of educational disadvantages when you measure and know that there are delays. It's just how as a teacher you use the instrument of scrutiny. Good teachers who do that always give me e-mails. Those are teachers who fight hard to make it work. They're asking us to fight to keep that math test. I think they're disappointed tonight. I have another practical question. What exactly happened to the extra money for the MBO to improve computational education? There was no clear answer to that. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to investigate the use of the accounting funds used by the government in recent years to improve the teaching of mathematics in the MBO and to inform the Court as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Beertema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31332-62]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u234	Mr. Chairman. First of all, thanks to the Minister for the commitment that the Klever/Mohandis motion stands. The motion adopted this year clearly states that the flow requirements should not be further increased. The pabo and teacher training stop. I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government finds that the improvement of mathematics skills of pupils in the MBO is still too far behind to allow the calculation test to be counted for the attainment of a diploma;]] [[Considering that, according to the results of the review for 2015, this also applies to students on HAVO and VMBO, but that the government wishes to include the calculation test for a diploma here;]] [[Whereas large numbers of pupils in both MBO and HAVO and VMBO will not have obtained their diploma next year because they do not pass the calculation test, despite the efforts made to improve arithmetical education;]] [[considers that pupils should not suffer from inadequate computational education by abstaining from a diploma;]] [[considers that the commitment to improving the numeracy skills of pupils should be continued in full;]] [[calls on the Government not to include the calculation test for both MBO and VMBO as well as havoleerlingen for obtaining a diploma as long as this test is too high a threshold for many young people to obtain a diploma,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Jadnansing, Mr Bishop, Mr Jasper van Dijk, Mr Rog and Mr Van Meenen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31332-63]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u235	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the rulers very much for the thorough answer. We do not agree on all points, but that is why it is a debate. Maybe in the coming months we will grow a little further together. That'd be great. I have tabled two motions, one on the use of the calculator. That deserves clarification. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Bosker Committee recommended that the use of a calculator in the calculation test should only be permitted where necessary in daily life;]] [[calls on the Government to apply the advice of the Bosker Commission and to allow the calculator to continue only to check the use of a calculator and to make appropriate arrangements for pupils with dyscalculie,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the legislative proposal on the diagnostic test also includes an obligation for schools to participate in international competition;]] [[calls on the Government to continue its current practice that participation in international competition is only voluntary,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bishop, Mr Van Meenen, Mr Slob and Mr Rog. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31332-64]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bishop, Mr Van Meenen, Mr Slob and Mr Grashoff. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31322-65]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u236	To clarify the last motion, I would like to point out that the Secretary of State has made a commitment on this point and that I would ask him to consider this motion as supporting the policy envisaged.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u237	Mr. Chairman. Before I read out my three motions, I would like to make one more comment. If you're going through days like today and yesterday, you're gonna be in some kind of roller coaster of all kinds of developments. The VVD has a story that she supports 100%. Often, however, it seems as if they are very alone in that, with the exception of a few others. The nice thing is then when you suddenly get an email from the teacher of your old sixth grade who has taught me how to calculate, who has followed the debate behind his PC and who fully supports me. He currently works, retired, in practical education and sees every day how little the children can charge. Of course, it's practice education, but still. That supports me in putting forward three motions again with fire. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas more than a third of the MBO students, according to the College for Keys and Exams, did not receive computational education in the school year 2014-2015 and, even in secondary education, arithmetic education is not in order everywhere;]] [[noting that financial resources have been made available for computational education;]] [[calls on the Government to carry out an investigation into the way in which the funds intended for the improvement of computational education in recent years have been spent by informing the educational institutions and the Chamber on this matter before the spring recess, and to examine whether these funds can be recovered where they have been incorrectly spent,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Straus and Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31322-66]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u238	My second motion is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the calculation test is not yet included in the attainment of the diploma for a number of types of education, because not enough pupils have yet received good computational education and pass the test;]] [[Whereas calculating education only improves if the pressure remains on schools and pupils;]] [[calls on the Government to assess each year before the autumn recess whether it is already justified to include the calculation test when obtaining the diploma where it has not yet been included in the success/pocket scheme,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Straus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31322-67]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u239	Finally, the third motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas more than a third of the MBO students did not receive a computational education in the school year 2014-2015 according to the College for Keys and Exams;]] [[Whereas the results of the MBO calculation are far behind in comparison to secondary education, despite the fact that additional resources have been used for this purpose;]] [[noting that the Minister for Education, Culture and Science is presenting an action plan, but leaves it in the middle or changes to the quality agreements;]] [[calls on the Government to include in the result-dependent part of the quality agreements with the MBO sector strict targets for the calculation test before the end of this school year,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Straus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31322-68]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u240	It was fast and that's why I couldn't quite follow. I did hear the position of the Minister of Education come along, because it was in a motion. I read on the site of De Telegraaf that the VVD will put the Minister of Education under curatel. My question is very simple: does the VVD still have confidence in the Minister in this matter?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u241	Since when do you believe the headlines in De Telegraaf?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u242	I think I'm asking the questions here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u243	I haven't talked about curately at all. I have called on the Minister to work on mathematics education in the MBO. I have also tabled a number of motions on this subject. Above all, I want her to get to work, and then under curately couples is the last thing you have to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u244	There is the assumption that the Minister has never been working and that the VVD should finally get to work. Is that how you want me to describe it? On what basis does the VVD now believe that the Minister will get to work?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u245	In my view, the Minister himself has also indicated that she believes that serious work should be done in the MBO. She has also indicated herself that she will be on top of it. In my motions I urge her to do so again, and it is now particularly important that she gets to work on it and get to work on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u246	On a point of order, Mr President. May I say, then, that the motion is superfluous?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u247	You can see everything here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u248	To be honest, it seems to me to be a strange scheme of the VVD. The VVD now pushes the PvdA Minister into the corner, because of course she already knew, for more than a week, that this motion by Mrs Jadnansing was coming. Anyway, that's a choice the VVD has made together with a similar member of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u249	What is your question to Mrs Straus, Mr Rog?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u250	My question is whether Mrs Straus is prepared to reflect on the number of vocational schools where calculation lessons are not yet in order. Would it perhaps consider applying the same curatel to the Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u251	We're in the middle of a round of motions. We are no longer going to ask each other to reflect on something more generally. Mrs Straus can answer the second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u252	As far as I am concerned, there is no question at all of the State Secretary's being called into question. You may also have noticed that in one of the motions we find that both the MBO and the mathematics education in some schools are not yet in order. We therefore want to know where the money finally went in both education sectors.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u253	In the last motion, did I hear you clearly just call it MBO or did I not listen properly?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u254	Several motions have been tabled. The motion for a resolution on financial resources concerns both the FVO and the MBO. We do not know what quality agreements are, and I am afraid I cannot do so for the vo. I would like to do that, but then you should support me in my efforts to make quality agreements too, because I do not think that the CDA was on my hand on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u255	That brings us to the end of the second term of office. I shall suspend the sitting until 12 a.m. to allow the two directors to take a look at the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u256	I give the floor to the Secretary of State for the assessment of motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u257	Mr. Chairman. Before I go into the motions, I would like to say a few words about two points that have been raised. I shall begin with Mr Van Meenen, who is served at his beck and call. In the first term, he asked whether it is legally possible to distinguish between the vwo on the one hand, where you enter the calculation test and make it count for the diploma, and the havo and vmbo on the other hand, where you do not. The answer is that it can be done. This saves the Chamber another letter. Mr Rog asked a question about the ER test.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u258	I think Mr Van Meenen wants a little more explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u259	However, I would appreciate some source of information rather than just the communication that it is possible to do so. So I will continue to attach myself to a letter explaining why this is possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u260	There was supposed to be a letter. Can the Secretary of State answer that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u261	As far as I am concerned, we should not do anything unnecessary. There's been a check to see if it's possible. In my first term, I have already explained in detail why I think it can be done. That explanation seems to be correct. If Mr Van Meenen has the idea that it would not be possible, I think the burden of proof is on his side. We must, above all, avoid writing unnecessary letters as much as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u262	I'm sorry, I'm not attached to unnecessarys either, but this is really too skinny for me. We are now holding the debate. I asked a question about this and I received a commitment to a letter. Then the Secretary of State comes back and says he checked it out. Whoever he did this to is further unclear. That's just not enough for me. So I keep asking for that letter. Maybe I should go and ask him about the arrangement; I don't know. This can be done with a brief source: on this basis, do we believe that this is possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u263	I should like to look at the Secretary of State, because we should not have to do this by means of an arrangement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u264	I am, of course, willing to always write letters, but let us limit that a little bit. If Mr Van Meenen really attaches great importance to us giving this to him with reference to the article of law, I am happy to do so. Then we'll send a one-way note to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u265	I think that's very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u266	Mr. Chairman. Mr Rog asked questions about the ER test. What about that? The ER test was another pilot in the school year 2014. It's been tested. This means that the results of this test will be taken in an even better form this year. Many experts and teachers who understand the subject matter are involved. They indicate that the ER test is satisfactory for most pupils with dyscalculie. There are some adjustments that will help a good part of that group. Then why are the results still a little behind? For this group it is more difficult, just like children with dyslexia generally score worse for Dutch than children without dyslexia. But it's in that sense to do. For a number of exceptions, we have given the additional possibility of an oral examination. I am referring, for example, to students who have a huge failure and who are particularly panicked when a test is taken digitally. For them there is the possibility to do it orally directly at the CvTE. I'll move on to the motions. In the motion in part No. Mr Grashoff and other signatories asked for a direct flow from VMBO to Havo. I would advise against this motion. I sent the Chamber a letter on this matter on 27 August, in which I stressed that it was too early to determine the effects of the admission code on the flow rates and the success of the HAVO. The intermediate results of the admission code used in secondary education are positive in two ways. Most schools comply with this code and the code does not create any obstacles to transit. The Education Council also expressed a positive opinion on the use of the admission code. That is why I think it is right that, as promised in the letter, we should allow a final monitoring and evaluation to be carried out. I will send the Chamber the third and final monitor in 2016, so that we can say something about how this will work out. The motion in part No. 54, also by Mr Grashoff, the Government requests that the individual results of the final tests in primary education should not be shared with the educational inspection. I would strongly advise against this motion. The intention of the motion is that the inspection should no longer use the final test results to determine whether a school complies with the requirement of minimum learning outcomes laid down in the Law on Primary Education, i.e. whether the final results of a school are sufficiently in order. The legislator has also provided that the final test can be used for this purpose. Two and a half years ago, we had this debate in the Chamber. At that time, the Chamber gave its broad agreement; moreover, Mr Van Meenen, who co-signed this motion. We should have had that discussion then. If the Chamber so wishes, the inspection will be in great difficulty because it will no longer be able to assess the learning outcomes of schools.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u267	I will not go into that last motion, because we know that discussion. We absolutely disagree on this, but it remains so. I would like to comment on the response to my first motion. The Secretary of State points out the admission code, but it's not mandatory. Can the Secretary of State promise that the admission code will be mandatory?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u268	If we're gonna force it, we're gonna have to change the law. I think that's a heavy drug. If the schools comply with that admission code and if that code does not hinder the flow, we have de facto achieved the same thing. Looks like it now. I would like to wait and see whether this will be our final judgment in the spring. If it does not work out differently and if there is a different picture, this question may come up, but I think it is too early for a legal obligation. The motion in part No. 55 calls on us to stop assessing the underlying return in secondary education. I would also advise against this motion. I note that there are many misunderstandings about the yield of underbuilding. Some think schools are reluctant to offer opportunities because of their underbuilding efficiency, but schools that are selective score low on this indicator. Moreover, we have adapted the indicators very recently. Schools are rewarded if they manage to attract students to a higher level with mixed advice, in flats of being punished when they go the other way. Moreover, the Court has recently received a letter on the adaptation of the inspection framework; I recommend that we look at that as well. Overall I think that the underbuilding efficiency is indeed relevant, because if a school grabs it has 20 students with mixed Havo/VWO advice and if all those students are in the havo at the end of the ride, doesn't that school have anything to explain? I think we should look at that and the inspection should also look at it. If we don't, we're gonna take away kids' chances. The motion in part No. 56 asks us to refrain from introducing the calculation test. You won't be surprised that we don't advise them. The same applies to the motion in part No. 57, in which we are asked to keep the calculation test as part of the bag/low control in the vwo. I see no reason to do so. In the motion in part No. 58 the government is asked to realize that the result of the calculation test is not mentioned on the diploma. I advise against this motion. It is precisely the entry on the list that gives you an incentive to do your best and to perform. It is also important for transparency towards further education. I will continue with the motion on part No. 59. It invites you to sit down with the Dutch Association for Mathematics Teachers to look at what you can do to promote computational education by sector. We are sitting around the table, and I would like to do so again, also in view of the course of this debate. We lay down general rules by learning path, type of school or MBO level, because this is the law that we have to deal with. We can certainly make use of their expertise to improve computational education in the schools themselves. For this improvement, questions like: what can you do with educating teachers? How can you motivate students? How can you make sure the results at school get better? I'll leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. In the motion in part No. 60 is asked to introduce policy changes in education only if a well-founded problem analysis has been carried out, there is sufficient involvement and support in the field of education and sufficient time is taken to implement it. That all sounds very nice and good. I have the impression that we have complied with this throughout the whole process. I also think this is a bit of a butter-to-the-head move, because I see that many of the signatories to this motion agreed in 2010 to the law which stipulates that we should now take a calculation test in education. I reject this motion because I think it is completely superfluous. I would also like to present a mirror to all the parties who have signed it and call on them to think a little more about these matters in advance rather than go along with a calculation test. Mr Bishop is an exception to this, because he has always been consistent and consistent with the calculation test.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u269	Of course, I accept this advice. Actually, I'm not really surprised about the Secretary of State either. The signatories of the motion believe that this Secretary of State, in particular, has left a number of gaps in the process and calls on him to do so differently in the future of education policy. Perhaps it is the intention of the motion to expose exactly this. I accept the negative pre-advisation, but certainly maintain the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u270	I told Mr Rog the mirror that he and his party and also my predecessor, because I did not invent the calculation test myself, were at the cradle of the calculation test. If things had turned out differently, we wouldn't have had a debate here tonight, but that's looking the cow up her ass. In the motion in part No. 61 The government is asked for a November exam for the students in the Vavo. The Chamber will most likely take a positive decision and then we will have an adjustment in the flow requirements to higher education and we will have to ensure that this target group is just admitted to higher education. I think that's why there's no need for an extra examination. I can see a number of colleges doing the same. Where this is not the case, we will draw attention to the fact that this is possible and that we intend to adapt the rules accordingly. Perhaps this is enough for Mr Rog to withdraw his motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u271	So you're dissuading this motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u272	Yes, I believe that we have the same objective, namely that vavo pupils do not suffer from the fact that we are now being asked to pass a calculation test at a certain level, which we suspect a majority in the Chamber will say: we are going to postpone for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u273	Mr. Rog, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u274	You sum it up with 'dissuade', but I hear the Secretary of State making a commitment that students who have reached a figure less than a 5 can still be admitted to higher education if the Jadnansing motion is going to make it. I'm happy about that, so I'm withdrawing my motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u275	Since the Rog motion (No ) has been withdrawn, is no longer a matter of procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u276	We have talked for a very long time about the Jadnanancing motion. in piece No. 63. I see there's a majority for it. At the same time, it seems clear to me that we consider the motion to be unwise and therefore dissuade it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u277	I have another question: how does the cabinet ultimately assess the verdict? I also asked the petitioner in her first term, but I did not really receive a clear answer. It says: as long as this test is too high a threshold for many young people. What is the image at the time that "as long" has ended and the threshold is low? Then how does the cabinet judge this motion if it is adopted?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u278	We need to consider that. There are two components in the operative part, first the postponement of the bag/layer arrangement. I think that's pretty digital. We can shed some light on that. Secondly, the question is when do we think that arithmetic education and the results are sufficiently in order? Let's take a good look at that. I really think it is too early to make a final decision on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u279	The Chamber makes a ruling and states that the cabinet may come back if that test is no longer a high threshold. Then it is important to know what the cabinet has in mind in such a statement. Otherwise, we're gonna have a really weird situation, aren't we? Or can we be very brief and ready, which is perhaps the most obvious: in this cabinet period we see nothing of it at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u280	It's kind of the world upside down. There's a motion we don't recommend. We would consider it justified to continue with the calculation test and to include it in the diploma. That's why I don't think this is a good motion. Mr Slob asks me what I intend to do with this motion. His name isn't under it, but some of the others do. He must then put that question to Mrs Jadnansing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u281	Okay, I'm gonna move in now. This motion will be put to the vote on Tuesday. When the motion is adopted, it is customary for the petitioner to ask how this motion is carried out by the cabinet. At that time, it is up to the cabinet to respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u282	Indeed, as soon as the motion is adopted, that question must be asked. I'm curious how the Cabinet takes it when the Chamber makes such a statement. I can always ask a Secretary of State for that, even in a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u283	The Secretary of State says he's not answering it right now. He gives the motion the predicate "dissuade." I would therefore like to follow the procedure I have just indicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u284	I shall of course go all the way to your direction, but I myself would be very sorry if the soap opera on this subject, which has been going on for quite some time now, were to continue even after the adoption of a motion. I don't think anyone's been served with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u285	We will see that when we get the appreciation from the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u286	I'm deceiving the motion in part No. 64. The calculator is now a tool for different thinking steps when calculating. Moreover, this is also laid down in the reference levels. If we think that the calculation test should ultimately assess whether pupils meet the reference levels, this is the consequence. I would therefore advise against the motion. The motion in part No. 65 has a great deal of superfluousness, I say in the direction of Mr Bishop. As I said just now in my first term, there is no obligation at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u287	Just so we're clear, you're declaring her redundant. You may leave the verdict to the Chamber or you may advise against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u288	Needlessed motions, I generally advise against.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u289	I also sometimes hear rulers say: no need, but judge Chamber. So let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u290	In the context of writing as little unnecessary letters as possible and adopting as little unnecessary motions as possible, I think my line is clear. Finally, I come to the motion for a resolution on part No. 67, in which the government is asked to assess the state of the calculation test and the level at each autumn recess. In fact, that is what we have done at the moment, and it coincides with the reports we are sending to the Chamber anyway. I can leave that judgment to the Chamber. There are still a number of motions on the MBO and on the flow of higher education. He'll take care of the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u291	Mr. Chairman. There are three motions left. In the motion in part No. 62 the government is invited to examine the accounting funds that the government has used to improve mathematics education in the MBO. I don't recommend that motion. She's redundant. We have already announced in the letter that we will ask the inspection to carry out an investigation. Mr Beertema gets even more than he asks in this motion. The research which the inspection will carry out is not only about the MBO but also about the VOTE. In the motion in part No. Mr Straus and Mr Jasper van Dijk were asked to carry out research into how the funds intended for improving education were spent and, if necessary, to recover them. I also advise against this motion, for the same reason as I did not recommend Mr Beertema's motion: it is superfluous. I would also add that funds cannot be recovered because there can be no misuse of funds. In her motion for a resolution, Mrs Straus asks for item No. 68 for the MBO in relation to the calculation test by the end of the year to include sharp targets in the result-dependent part of the quality agreements with the MBO sector. I don't recommend that motion. The action plan referred to here is already mentioned in detail in the letter. It has also been indicated that we consider, with emphasis on considering, whether it is useful to include it in the result-dependent part. This will also depend on the efforts already made by the schools themselves. So I'm not suggesting this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u292	I would like to put a supplementary question on the motion for a resolution. 66. Did the Minister say that funds cannot be recovered when they have been incorrectly spent? That does not seem to me to be a good thing. We shouldn't want that, should we?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u293	If they've been incorrectly spent, you can say they've been spent inefficiently. However, we cannot simply say that we do not like it and we take it back with regard to funds added to the lump sum of institutions. That's not legal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u294	I think that is a clear answer, Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u295	I think this is something we should come back to. We often talk about money that has gone to the wrong place. To be continued!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u296	Yeah, that's what I was gonna find out. We're not gonna do that now. It'll come later.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-12.u297	The motions will be put to the vote on Tuesday. I thank Members for their input, I thank both directors for answering the many questions and I thank all those who have expressed an interest in this debate.
