ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u1	Mr. Chairman. Two weeks ago, I also stood here asking when the cabinet would review the relationship with Saudi Arabia after crucifixions, decapitations and violations of humanitarian law in Yemen. The Minister said that nothing will change for us. Business as usual; no arms embargo; the Netherlands will simply continue to supply weapons. Today I am making another attempt, because today Saudi Arabia has established an Islamic alliance against terror. A military miscarriage, on which my group is deeply concerned. It's like the Ku-Klux-Klan is starting a coalition against racism. I find that worrying, because many countries in this coalition are not fighting terror, they are exporting terror. I refer to Pakistan, Sudan, and I can mention a number of other countries. I find that worrying because Saudi Arabia equates atheists with terrorists and because the country brings women illegally driving a car across the street to terrorist courts. Which terrorists are actually going to attack this coalition? I also find it worrying because the tension between Shiites and Sunnis will only increase. I also find it worrying because Saudi Arabia is currently incredibly housed in Yemen, committing war crimes and bombing schools, as Amnesty International showed in a terrible report last week. While Yemen is out of control, Saudi Arabia withdraws from the fight against Islamic State. On 9 December, the US Secretary of Defense Ashton Carter told the Senate that Saudi Arabia is no longer involved in the bombing of ISIS. Does the Minister share my concerns about the coalition? Is it true that Saudi Arabia no longer bombs ISIS? Does she agree that Saudi Arabia is committing war crimes in Yemen? If so, when is the border reached for the cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. I thank Mr Sjoerdsma for his questions. Yesterday, Saudi Arabia's Minister of Defence indeed announced plans for the formation of an international coalition to combat terrorism. I fear that the facts at our disposal are not much different from the facts available to Mr Sjoerdsma. The embassy is gathering information, but has not yet been able to complete it for Question Time. The question is therefore what is going to happen with these plans and how they will actually be implemented. It is clear that there has been a call for a greater ownership of Sunni countries in the fight against ISIS for some time, but of course we also see possible risks of the plans as they were announced yesterday. This concerns, for example, how terrorism is actually defined and how it is prevented from leading to further tensions between Sunnis and Shiites, as Mr Sjoerdsma rightly pointed out. For example, there are a number of things that we do have on the retina. In any case, it is too early for us to point this out because we simply do not have enough information. However, I understand the concerns that Mr Sjoerdsma has just raised and the comments he has made.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u3	Two weeks ago, it was too early to indicate the 50 planned executions. The minister would then consider exactly what would happen to those people and whether these people had confessed after being tortured. I didn't hear anything about that. Mr Knops asked how often the Saudi ambassador was summoned. This minister was supposed to check it out, but I haven't heard from him since. Now we see a military miscarriage, to call it that again, emerging from countries of which there are a number of prominent terrorist exporters. I understand that it is early day after the establishment of this coalition, but I hope that the Minister will also express her concerns about what is happening here, aloud and clearly. I hope that we will do the same when it comes to human rights in a broad sense. Mr Van Bommel, who unfortunately cannot be here today, asked questions about a poet who has been sentenced to death. He didn't have access to a lawyer. The question to the cabinet was whether it wanted to express itself on this issue, but the answer from the cabinet was not "yes," what you would expect, but "it is primarily up to the sentenced person to appeal." Yeah, but he doesn't have a lawyer! I was expecting a "yes" there. In the area of Saudi Arabia, I expect much and much more from this cabinet. I said that two weeks ago and say it again when it comes to human rights within that country, but also when it comes to what Saudi Arabia does outside its own country. I put another question to the Minister who did not answer in the first round. In Yemen, things are going very badly, but in the meantime, the American counterpart of this minister says that Saudi Arabia and the Gulf States are no longer actually bombing ISIS. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u4	A number of Arab partners are part of the coalition against ISIS, including Saudi Arabia. It is really not possible for me at the moment to indicate how the plans announced yesterday relate to the coalition partnership against ISIS. But, of course, that is something that we also have questions about. Mr Sjoerdsma referred to comments and commitments made two weeks ago. I did it and it's on. If the Chamber has not yet received that letter, I will certainly see to it that it comes. Back to Mr Sjoerdsma's concern. I indicated earlier that the cabinet took note of the plans announced yesterday. It is not the first time that a plan like this has been mentioned. The question is how it will be completed and whether it will actually be further developed. However, the available information is currently too limited. The fact is that 34 countries are participating. So that's a lot more than Saudi Arabia. These countries also face terrorist threats and attacks. I have just endorsed, and I repeat, that I too believe that it is important that the sectarian contradictions with these plans should not be further strengthened and that the definition of terrorists should not be stretched too far. In other words, I have a multitude of questions that all need to be asked and answered. Once again, I give a letter at the moment that I have more information. But unfortunately, it's too early to point this out.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u5	I do indeed hope to receive written answers to a number of questions, such as the question about the condemned poet and Mr Knops' question. The question of how often the ambassador has been summoned is not a difficult question. That seems to me to be a matter of finding out; that could have happened by hand. Then I'll come back to that one key question. From this coalition against terror, you expect her to tackle terror. But contrary to what the coalition is aiming at, Saudi Arabia and the Gulf States are retreating into the fight against ISIS. For the third time, my question to this Minister is: can she confirm what her American colleague of defence has testified to the Senate, namely that these countries no longer bomb ISIS?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u6	Recently, in a general discussion, I indicated that I cannot publicly give figures on who carried out what bombings. The same applies to Saudi Arabia. However, I have just made it clear to the House that the Netherlands, like the US and other countries, has for some time been insisting on ownership of the Sunni countries in the fight against ISIS. That seems to me to be a clear message.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u7	If I listen carefully to the Minister's reply, I hear that much information is not yet available. The Minister can actually give very few answers. That worries me, also because Mr Sjoerdsma has been here before when it comes to Saudi Arabia. My question to our Secretary of Defense is as follows. Does the government, with this minister in the lead, and in view of the developments and this alliance led by Saudi Arabia, not now agree that it is time for an arms embargo against Saudi Arabia?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u8	I clearly explained two weeks ago that the Netherlands does not pursue an independent policy, but that it is part of the European Union. A number of criteria apply and the Netherlands follows these criteria. If there is reason not to export because weapons can fall into the wrong hands, or because they are used differently than the aim that was initially given, for example to suppress, there will be no delivery. However, I am not in charge of this. That's up to my colleagues from BZ and BHOS. The Chamber knows this very well and she knows the criteria we apply within the European Union. It is also clear that the Netherlands does not operate there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u9	Saudi Arabia is a large country in the region. They have oil. Surely the Minister must take away all appearances that the government is selective in dealing with this country? If we know that they violate human rights, do decapitations, possibly support ISIS militaryly, should this government stand up and say: we cannot accept this on any account and: there will no longer be any weapons from the Netherlands to Saudi Arabia? The Minister does not have to hide behind those EU arms export criteria. The Netherlands can be at the forefront of this. Surely it is obvious that we should no longer support that country with weapons?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u10	In the fight against terror, there is a multitude of countries, including Saudi Arabia. From the beginning, this country has been a partner in the fight against ISIS. I cannot make a public statement about the precise commitment and when the bombings were carried out where and by which partners. But one thing I know for sure: we do need the region in the fight against ISIS in order to be able to crack a piece of butter at all. I have just made it clear about the arms embargo: the Netherlands does not deliver if there is any chance that these weapons will fall into the wrong hands or be used for the wrong purposes. That is what our criteria are really crystal clear about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u11	I agree with Mr Sjoerdsma's earlier questions. I am also curious whether the Minister can promise that she will answer the questions of two weeks ago this week, otherwise it will all run away in time. I have a second question. Saudi Arabia is a sponsor of Salafism, a foundation for radicalisation in the Netherlands and of jihadism. In short, we need water right now to put out the fire, not oil on the fire. The question is how the Minister appreciates Saudi Arabia's efforts to fight terrorism, which is praiseworthy in itself. How does the Minister see that given the fact that Saudi Arabia is one of the main sponsors of Salafism? Because the Minister said earlier that the peace-loving form of Salafism is not such a problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u12	There has been a lot of talk in the Chamber with me and with fellow executives about salafism in recent weeks. I believe that in the second week of January the cabinet will return to the Chamber with a comprehensive letter on this subject in response to the motions tabled. I'm not responding to that right now. As regards the plans that came to us yesterday, I said that it is really far too early to make specific reference to them. It can lead to greater ownership, a greater sense of ownership of a multitude of Arab countries, because it has been announced that it is 34 countries. However, there are also potential risks to the initiative as we were told yesterday. I have just spoken about this, for example when it comes to the contradiction between Shiites and Sunnis and the question of how to define "terrorism." Of course, these plans cannot be intended to deal with political opponents; let me be clear about that. With you, therefore, I look forward with interest to the additional information we will obtain in bilateral talks and through the embassy on the plans announced yesterday. My colleague is currently in Brussels. I will ask him to respond to the request about the letter this week.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u13	On 9 December, the US Secretary of Defense informed the Senate that Saudi Arabia no longer bombs in Syria. Why can't this minister confirm that? Is she prepared to contact her colleague in America and inform the Chamber of that consultation, in order to clarify whether Saudi Arabia is no longer bombing in Syria?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u14	I repeat what I just said: the US and other coalition countries, including the Netherlands, have for some time been calling for greater ownership of the Sunni countries, including Saudi Arabia, in the fight against ISIS. We have made agreements with CENTCOM on how to make public who carried out what bombings when. I keep to that, but I think that the call made by the United States, including a country like the Netherlands, is sufficiently clear to say that efforts need to be significantly strengthened to be a credible partner in the fight against ISIS.
