ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-9.u1	Seven speakers have signed up for this debate, who have themselves indicated how much time they want. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mrs Kooiman of the SP, who has registered for fifteen minutes. I am, of course, very pleased that the VWS Minister is still in our midst.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-9.u2	Mr. Chairman. As I have already indicated in the VAOs, I have the honour today to replace colleagues. In this debate I am replacing Mr Van Gerven. I must honestly say that I find the subject rather complex. We are talking today about doing scientific research on children or people who are incompetent. The fact that I am not the only one who finds this subject rather complex is also reflected in the fact that the legislative proposal we are now debating was initially submitted to the Chamber in 2012. Later, it was adapted to the bill we're discussing today. I read in the pieces a clear struggle, including from the cabinet. There is a clear need for research in children to develop new medicines, new treatment techniques or diagnostic techniques. Drugs that have only been tested for adults can have a very different effect on children. Sometimes participation in research is desirable because the participants themselves can benefit from it or because their chances of life are increased. Sometimes it is done to enable others, who later get complaints, to receive effective treatment. On the other hand, children and wiles are sometimes very vulnerable. They therefore deserve our protection. This is not just about children, but mostly about those who have been through a lot and have a lot on their minds. Medical scientific research shall not present any risk to the subjects which will make them sicker rather than better or remain stable. There is therefore, on the one hand, the importance of good scientific research and, on the other hand, the responsibility to provide them with the necessary protection. This bill seeks to find a solution to this problem. So it's a search for the right balance. I think that the SP didn't think this was an easy search, can be seen from our input. I have a number of things I would like to put to the Minister. A number of amendments are proposed in the present legislative proposal. First of all, it is proposed to reduce the current age of 18 for minors to 16 years. It is argued that 16- and 17-year-olds are well able to make their own choice to participate in research or not. Parents will no longer have to have a decisive vote in that. The SP agrees with this argument. In addition, however, it is also seen as an argument that more investigations are possible. That makes sense. If you broaden the target group, more subjects, as they are called, will indeed be found. However, we must also make a serious balance between the importance of the investigation on the one hand and the importance of the minor person on the other. Today I would like to hear from the Minister how a good substantive balance can be made between the importance of the investigation and the importance of the minor individual. What is the reduction in the age limit for the benefit of the minor and the sick individual? What role do the parents of 16 and 17 year olds play in the new proposal? A second point I would like to make today is the extent to which risks may be taken in the future. Indeed, the earlier version of the bill stated that "the risks of which are negligible for them and the objections are minimal". We are now talking about'minimum risk and minimum load'. The second version of the bill therefore provides a little more scope for risk. After all, we no longer speak of a 'negligible' but of a'minimum' risk. This will allow for more investigations and more risky investigations among minors and adults. Apart from the importance of these investigations, I wonder how exactly this difference should be explained. I see the Minister nodding, so I'm looking forward to her explanation. Where is the boundary between "negligible" and "minimum"? These terms still need content, and I understand that. What does the Minister consider to be a minimum risk compared to a negligible risk? In what situation, for example, does one research justify more risk than the other? What research that would be rejected under the earlier law can be carried out in the near future? Could the Minister give us some examples? I know this is a difficult question, but the struggle was also difficult. I'm hoping for a proper balance. There is an amendment from D66 and VVD in favour of completely abolishing the upper limit, the limit of the minimum risk I have just mentioned, and investing in a review committee. The authors want to be sure that there is an extension of research. I understand that there is a desire to broaden the investigation, but the SP has difficulty with this amendment. The balance may be too much for the interests of researchers or of industry, while we are dealing here with the interests of the child and those of the willless. We have to protect them from the risks. The Council of State has therefore also recommended that the upper limit be maintained. In doing so, the Council of State bases itself on the position of the Central Committee on Human Research. The Committee points out that the advantage of an upper limit is that researchers will make greater efforts to ensure that the risks and objections are as targeted as possible. I will listen carefully to the two authors of the amendment. I would, of course, like to hear their considerations, but I would also ask the Minister to reflect on this. Of course, the researchers must make as much effort as possible to take as little risk as possible, but first of all, of course, the review committee must always assess the research proposal. The Central Committee on Human Research oversees this. It is good that a pediatrician should participate in the review committee. It is also good that all studies can be assessed in the same way, but a good framework needs to be established for this. When will that framework be available? Is it available at the time of entry into force of this law? Is this a clear description of how certain choices are made? Is there any monitoring in that context? The parents of minors or those present at will have to decide whether or not to participate in an investigation in this situation. If the risks increase in the participation in the research, is there any change in the guidance of these people, for example, in the support in making such an important decision? How are these people sufficiently involved and informed about this? Finally, I have a small question about suicide prevention. We are getting the signal that suicide prevention research is very difficult, because suicide patients are often not allowed to be included in relevant research. Can the Minister state what the change from a negligible to a minimal risk in this law means for this type of investigation? I am referring in particular to minors. These were all my questions on this complex issue. I will pay close attention to the considerations of my colleagues and the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-9.u3	Mr. Chairman. The present bill aims to amend the Law on Medical and Scientific Research with people with a view to removing a legal barrier existing in the Netherlands for medical and scientific research with children and adults who were unable to act. The legislative proposal thus aims at innovation in the fields of pediatrics, old-age medicine and care for the mentally handicapped. The PvdA supports the importance of more research than currently legally possible under the Medical and Scientific Research Act for the advancement and promotion of the quality of health care for minors, the elderly and the mentally handicapped. This law does indeed have a long history. I believe that the law came into force 15 years ago and has been evaluated twice. I think there have been some eleven reports. The amendment of the law has also been on the Chamber's plenary agenda a number of times, but has been removed from the Chamber over and over again. I am therefore pleased that the treatment is now finally continuing. In 2009, the Doek Commission issued an opinion. So this legislative change has really been looked at from all sides. A letter of amendment was issued because there were different legal complications in relation to the European Regulation. Following the submission of the legislative proposal, a European regulation on clinical trials of medicinal products was adopted. That Regulation leaves sufficient scope for Member States to lay down in their own legislation how to deal with medical research on minors or unskilled persons. In addition, many of the provisions of the regulation have already been incorporated into the WMO. On an important point, the regulation did lead to an amendment of the legislative proposal. The regulation provides that scientific research on minors is only permitted in short if it involves only a minimum risk and a minimum burden compared to standard treatment. Mrs Kooiman has already referred to this. This differs from the original legislative proposal, which refers to a "lowly more than minimal risk'. However, the concept of minimal in the Regulation is relative. It is linked to the nature and severity of the treatment that is common in a particular disease. This provision in the Regulation provides more scope for research in children with a serious condition and for the development of new diagnostics and therapies than the original legislative proposal, while at the same time protecting this vulnerable group. I am pleased that the Dutch Association for Paediatrics shares this view and supports the bill; it has embraced the change. The same applies to the Association Parents, Children and Cancer and others. In any event, the Regulation has resulted in the substitution of the criterion "smallly greater than minimum risk' by a study which "includes a minimum risk and a minimum load compared to the standard treatment of the disease of the subjects in the case of scientific research which cannot benefit the subjects themselves'. That is a good thing. The second point I agree with is age. The law on the medical treatment agreement provides that minors from 16 years of age may take part in their treatment. The 18-year-old limit is included in the WMO. This limit is now 16 years old because of the change. Subjects are considered well able to decide for themselves from that age on participation in scientific research. Moreover, the review by the medical-ethical review committees (METCs) provides an additional guarantee. I think this was a point of criticism from the Council of State. I'm glad the bill on this section has been tightened up. The question of whether and to what extent children and adults can be involved in medical and scientific research if they do not benefit from it is a dilemma. We can see that from the whole legal process. The Labour Party agrees that more research is needed to advance and promote the quality of health care for minors, the elderly and the mentally handicapped than is currently possible under the WMO. The Labour Party stands for good quality care for children. However, there is still much to improve in several areas. For example, it appears that a large proportion of the medicines used by children are not registered or off-labeled, or are prescribed by way of derogation from the authorisation. Doctors are therefore obliged to prescribe doses based on their experience. Children are at risk of under- or over-dosing, or an agent that is not effective or even harmful. Their health, as well as their quality of life, can be harmed. Medical-scientific research into, among other things, the correct dosages of existing and new medicines is therefore more than necessary. That is why we welcome this proposal. Because children are not equal to adults because of their development and physiology, but also psychologically, it is important to conduct drug research with themselves. Now that this is being proposed for scientific research with children, the PvdA considers it reasonable and desirable to extend the WMO also for scientific research with minors and adults, such as mentally disabled or demented persons. The estimate that in 2040 half a million Dutch people will have a form of dementia underlines the importance of sufficiently accessible research in this group of patients. The PvdA does not know whether the current bill provides sufficient scope for developing new treatments for serious diseases such as cancer and for rare diseases in children in so-called intervention studies. The legislative proposal sets a clear upper limit, albeit less stringent than the current limit. It is true that with an upper limit with lighter requirements more research will be possible than with the current WMO, but the question is whether the proposed extension is sufficient. I would like to have a reaction to that. The PvdA agrees that the advantage of one broader upper limit is that researchers will make greater efforts to minimise risks and objections, partly because the medical-ethical review committees and the CCMO maintain a harsh rejection criterion. But whether this is really going to give enough room for more research, the practice must be established. Mr President, I should like to leave it at that for the time being.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-9.u4	Mr. Chairman. The law change we're talking about today has a long history. The Committee on Medical and Scientific Research with Minors has already delivered its opinion in 2009. In that opinion, she advises on the arrangements for medical and scientific research with minors in which such research cannot benefit themselves, the so-called "non-therapeutic research." Now, six years later, we come to talk about the extension of these rules. The fact that this has taken so long shows, according to the CDA, that the government has wanted to achieve this change with the greatest possible care. The CDA appreciates that on a subject like this, although this can be very frustrating for the patients in question and their parents. The CDA also expresses its gratitude for all the advice of the patients' organisations, pediatricians and researchers concerned in recent years. They have committed themselves with great commitment to this enlargement. The conversations you make, especially with the parent organizations, are often not very tender, and sometimes even very emotional. After all, it'll just be your kid... I've always understood that. Nevertheless, the CDA wants to remain critical. The financial interests of the pharmaceutical industry are also a reality in this respect. The criteria in the current law hinder important research. Can the Minister confirm that 40% of the medicines prescribed by general practitioners to children are currently not registered and not properly studied for use in children? Does the Minister share the view of the NVC and other organisations that this high percentage is partly due to the current obstacles in the law? Does the Commission believe that this legislative proposal will extend the scope for research in such a way that this percentage can be significantly reduced? Can the Minister also confirm that pharmaceutical industries do not opt for the Netherlands in carrying out clinical studies of new medicines because of the current strict regulations? Is it true that this will deprive children with a serious illness and their parents of the opportunity to consider whether they want to participate in a new study? Could it be that very sick children are denied a possible successful treatment because the purpose of the study is, formally speaking, non-therapeutic? We are talking here about non-therapeutic research or medical-scientific research that cannot directly benefit the person himself. This legislative proposal, also in the light of the European regulation, provides more scope for non-therapeutic investigations involving minors and adults. This serves the general interest of progress in pediatrics. The Council of State rightly points out that the importance of this investigation must be weighed against the importance of protecting these vulnerable persons. For the CDA, it is important that the Cabinet confirms that the "no, unless" principle is not abandoned. The starting point is and will continue to be that minors and non-skills are not exposed to research unless special conditions are met. Can the Minister confirm that the "no, unless" principle must be interpreted in this way and that the starting point is not: no, unless the investigation can benefit the child? In this context, I would also like to hear the Minister's opinion on the amendment No. 15 by Mr Rutte and Mrs Dijkstra. At first reading, it sounds to me like letting go of an upper limit. I wonder whether this does not remove the necessary balance of interests when it comes to whether an investigation is admissible. In fact, there is still an upper limit in the legislative proposal, although of a relative nature, but still an upper limit. The minimum risk and the minimum tax will be dropped from now on... I'll start again: the minimum risk and the minimum tax... It's what, you have to learn that terminology almost by heart. The people in the public gallery will think: what is this about? It concerns the criteria on the basis of which research is or is not allowed. So I will start again, with the proposed criteria in the legislative proposal before us. The minimum risk and the minimum load will now be compared to the standard treatment of the condition of the person concerned. This proportionality weighting is done by a medical-ethical review committee. In this light, I ask the following question. There are patients who do not have standard treatment. Sometimes it's nothing more than symptom control. Should the words "standard treatment of the condition" also be read in this way? In other words, can research also be allowed if it is not aimed at more than symptom control? The advice of the national attorney seems to give rise to this, but in the context of careful legal treatment, the CDA Group believes that this should also be included in the Acts as such. The CDA can certainly follow the retention of the upper limit in the law in itself. The Council of State has given a firm opinion on this, but I would ask the Minister to respond to the criticism of the Dutch Association for Paediatrics and Patient Organisations, among others, that this should only offer a negligible increase in research. If so, the CDA asks the government to reflect on the possibilities of meeting these concerns. Then I come to lowering the age limit to 16 and 17 years. There is an amendment by Mrs Dik-Faber of the Christian Union to this section. This is a reason for the CDA to ask the Minister to respond to this in substance. In fact, it is quite important for healthy young people 16 and 17 years of age to be invited or to sign up for medical research and then to receive compensation for it. Thus, if this change of law continues, they will be able to make that assessment on their own. You will not be surprised that this is also a subject in which I personally wonder if we want to do it this way. In this sense, I find Mrs Dik-Faber's amendment interesting. Let me get this straight, she's proposing the following. If young people aged 16 and 17 are admitted, the financial compensation should never be so high as to enable them to participate for this reason. I come to my final question. I understand from conversations with parents of sick children that through all their experiences, these children are often able to understand and express their interests at a younger age than other children. However, this legislation is also about unqualified adults who cannot do this. How are their interests protected when considering whether medical scientific research is being carried out that is not therapeutic, so does not happen in favour of the person in question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-9.u5	Mr. Chairman. I am speaking on behalf of the SGP this afternoon. We are going back to 2009, to the opinion of the Doek Committee, to which previous speakers have also referred. After careful research, the Committee concluded that it should be easier in the Netherlands to carry out medical-scientific research with children. In the meantime, there has been broad public support for the various recommendations contained in the report. The pediatricians, as well as parents' associations, are calling for greater opportunities. The Minister has started to do this. She has consulted experts, such as the Dutch Association of Pediatricians, and today we are talking about the legislative amendment that is before us. My group has some questions about this and we will also include the answer to these questions in our final position. For us, the key question this afternoon is: are all the parts of this legislative amendment really necessary to achieve the highly sought-after improvement of medication for children and willless people? It is clear that the law we are discussing today is at the heart of a major ethical dilemma. Some medicines can only be developed if they are studied in children with the specific disease. The fact that a drug works in adults doesn't mean that it works in children. At the time, the Doek Committee found that 70% of doses for children were not supported by research. Children are therefore at risk of overtreatment or undertreatment. Of course we do not want that; that is very undesirable. I quote from one of the documents and it is a quote that appeals to me very much: "It is perhaps the vulnerability of sick children, which calls for an extra effort to improve care and progress for children's medicine." That is why it is so important to extend the possibilities for medical research in children. This ultimately benefits health care for our children. Maybe not for that particular child, but for other children, who have the same illness now or later. The Doek Committee rightly points out that this can also be encouraging, both for the parents and for the children themselves. At the same time, children, but let me also mention here the adult will-be-successful, whoever this bill is about, need additional protection. This is also explicitly stated in the report of the Doek Committee. An important question that we have to answer today is therefore: does the legislative proposal before us provide sufficient guarantees for that protection? In this context, my group welcomes the Minister's view that the law should still be based on the 'no, unless' principle and not on the 'yes, if' principle, as recommended by the Doek Committee. The biggest change in law is the possibility of non-therapeutic research. Can the Minister explain clearly to my group what type of investigation it intends to carry out? Can she give examples of research which is desirable but cannot take place now? Children can never be seen as a means of research, especially when it comes to non-therapeutic research. Young children and non-skills can never fully acquire the purpose of the research themselves. Others have to do this for them. That is why pressure must never be exerted and strict limits must also be imposed. There is an amendment from the groups of the VVD and D66 and I would also like to hear what the Minister thinks of that amendment. I read, for example, that the provision'more than minimal objections' is deleted. I believe, however, that this is already being deleted by the second letter of amendment from the Minister. Or is the amendment even going one step further and is there no upper limit at all? That's not entirely clear to me. Perhaps the proposers will be able to deal with it later. I would also like to hear the Minister's response to this. As far as my group is concerned, it is precisely in the case of these vulnerable groups that we need an upper limit. How can it be prevented that non-therapeutic studies may cause serious harm to children? What are the chances and who is watching? If this opportunity is present, is non-therapeutic research justified at all? An important concept here is proportionality. How do the minimum burden and risk of the study relate to the need to carry out the study? It is the review committees that oversee it. I would then like to zoom in on those review committees. There is a central committee for medical and scientific research, but there are also regional committees. These Medical Ethics Review Committees in hospitals, in particular, are very important but they are under pressure. Do the METCs have sufficient leverage to assess the research questions? I read an article today that shows that there are no less than 1,800 per year. Will they manage to deal with the new standards in a cautious manner? The law will leave room for discussion. After all, each person determines the type of research he can handle. In what way is there room for this normative debate within the committee? Such a Medical Ethics Review Committee is the place where the research is looked at from a distance and the different interests are weighed. There should always be a proper balance of proportionality. How is it prevented that "the heavier someone's treatment, how easily heavier research is allowed"? In what way do children and people with disabilities receive this additional protection within the Committee on the Verification of Credentials and Immunities? The Christian Union attaches great importance to this. I would also like the Minister's promise that the METCs will remain in position. The terms'minimum risk' and'minimum tax' I have already mentioned them in a European regulation and this legislative proposal follows on from that. I now read in the explanatory memorandum to the second letter of amendment that the European regulation will enter into force in 2016 and that the whole law should be brought into line with this regulation in due course. Why is this cut made in the law? Genetic research is increasingly being carried out. It is also interesting to carry out a genetic analysis in children. Of course, donating a little blood doesn't cause any physical damage. But the results of this blood test could have a lot of impact. What if the DNA shows that an incurable disease can occur at a later age? What do parents do with this knowledge? What is the impact of genetic knowledge on a child? We know very little about this. We're on the verge of a genetic revolution. The Christian Union believes that we should agree on the right safeguards, because no matter how curious researchers are, the end does not justify the means. I ask the Minister to reflect on this. Drug studies are generally described in four stages. In phase 1, the substance is first administered to humans, mostly to healthy volunteers. Phase 2 studies the efficacy and safety of the medicine in a small patient group. Increased numbers are then tested in patients, whether or not compared to placebo. In phase 4, the final phase, additional studies will be carried out on, for example, long-term side effects and on the results in daily medical practice. This law also offers opportunities for extending phase 1 studies that were not previously possible. In the report of the Doek Committee it can be read that people have different motives for participating in medical scientific research. Among other things, they mention the self-medical benefit of the research, but also: something can mean something for future peers. Strikingly, these answers are given by participants in a study who are also sick themselves. A study of the motives of healthy people shows that financial compensation is the main incentive to participate. Can the Minister give us a look behind the scenes at this point? I am referring first of all to the group of young children and the unskilled. What guarantee can the Minister give that these subjects are really not affected to a disproportionate extent to participate in the research through the remuneration? Are not properly will-educated extra vulnerable, or is a compensation, other than an expense compensation, simply not at issue for this group? This brings me to the other amendment to the law, namely the one relating to 16 to 17-year-olds. Are they not particularly sensitive to possible financial compensation? Now research firms are recruiting at universities; are they going to do that in high schools? I find it undesirable for 16- and 17-year-olds to sign up as a test subject to pay for their summer vacation. Does the Minister agree that stricter rules should also apply to this age group than to adults? What is included in the research protocols? I have drafted an amendment to tighten up the legislative proposal on this point. The amendment has now been distributed and I am very curious about the Minister's response to this amendment. Last spring, we were shocked by reports from the ZEMBLA research programme. Psychiatric patients who were not allowed to participate in an experiment on paper were still subject. The study protocol was approved by the Medical-ethical Review Committee, but the researchers did not follow the protocol, thereby violating patients' rights. This case shows how vulnerable research with psychiatric patients is. Good monitoring of scientific research is a requirement to create a healthy balance. Would the Minister like to clarify how ongoing investigations are being monitored?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-9.u6	Mr. Chairman. Everyone here this afternoon is looking for concrete examples to give this very difficult legislative change hands and feet and get a picture. I've tried that, too, and I want to start with that. The medicine paroxetine is an antidepressant. It increased the number of suicide attempts in young and young adults. It was launched in 2001 and within a year it was prescribed for 2 million American children and young people. However, it soon came under fire. Psychiatrists reported remarkably often suicidal behavior. The package leaflet was modified, but the previous study that it had described as beneficial and safe was not withdrawn. Only this month, almost fifteen years later, was a reanalysis of the data published in the medical journal BMJ, formerly the British Medical Journal. This shows that the medicine does not work in severely depressed adolescents and children. Of the 90 young people who received it, 11 attempted suicide or injured themselves; in the placebo group there was 1. The manufacturer had managed to put those serious facts under the carpet. The science system has failed here, as the BMJ concluded. This depressing example pushes us with the nose on the facts. Apart from the role of the pharmaceutical industry in this field, that is a separate story; we are not talking about this now, but above all it shows us the importance of research into the workings of young people. Dutch specialists called for more research into antidepressants for children and young people immediately after the re-analysis. A professor of psychiatry for children and adolescents stated that drugs prescribed for adults are not being investigated for young people. It is known that medicines developed for adults cannot be used one-on-one in children. A child is not a kind of half adult for whom you just half the dose of the registered medicines. However, approximately half of the registered medicinal products lack an indication for children under 18. More research is therefore needed. We are talking today about the possibilities for doing research. The reason for the amendment of the Medical and Scientific Research Act was the finding of the Central Committee on Human Research that the innovation in the field of paediatrics is hampered by the strict requirements of the current Medical and Scientific Research Act. Certain forms of scientific research with children should be rejected because of these strict requirements. Even if the CCMO considers these investigations ethically admissible, that is not possible. Moreover, the possibilities for conducting research in the Netherlands were often more limited than in the neighbouring countries. The protection of the child is paramount in the Medical and Scientific Research Act. That is also very important. But it is also important that in future children benefit from research that is now being done. The Minister asked the Doek Commission to investigate this. The opinion of that committee finally showed that protecting the interests of the individual child can go hand in hand with the importance of children as a group. The Minister took over the position of the Doek Commission. It also recommended that no upper limit should be included in the law. Several organisations responded to this draft law. This turned out to meet the wishes of large groups of professionals and parents. Among other things, the Dutch Association for Paediatrics, the Dutch Association for Clinical Geriatrics and the Association for Parents, Children and Cancer expressed their support. Despite this broad support and the advice of the Doek Commission, the Minister introduced an upper limit in response to the opinion of the Council of State. I will come back to the current situation in a moment, but I would like to hear the substantive reasons for this and whether the Minister could also comment on the amendment of the VVD and D66. This does not apply to non-drug studies as an upper limit, but takes the circumstances of the target group as the starting point. This is therefore in line with the opinion of the Doek Committee. In the meantime, the Minister has decided to adopt the European regulation, also on the basis of the advice of the national attorney. This Regulation would provide more scope for important non-therapeutic studies in children with severe diseases. The requirement for non-therapeutic studies is that participation represents only a minimum risk and a minimum load compared to standard treatment. That is why this demand is of a relative nature. For example, when a child is receiving chemotherapy, when a child is used to it, a possible non-therapeutic study may include more than when the standard treatment is of a lighter species. This will apply both to minors and to adult will-skills and, in addition, to all types of research. This applies not only to drug studies but also to non-drug studies. I have a number of questions for the Minister. Can the Commission elaborate on its choice to apply the European regulation to both pharmaceutical research and non-medical research? Is she aware of how it has been designed in other countries, such as Belgium, France and England? Why is there no distinction between intervention studies and observational studies? After all, both have a different character. They are different from each other. Is it true that observational research may involve people who no longer have a condition? Is the term "standard treatment" the right one? Questions have already been asked about this, for example by Mrs Keijzer. The concept of "standard treatment" is even more unclear. The Council of State also informed about this. In response, the Minister indicated that in the absence of a standard treatment, the relative character has no added value, but the adaptation of "negligible" to "minimum" does. I share Mrs Keijzer's discomfort about all these terms and I share the need to keep trying to make them concrete. In the Minister's own proposal to amend the Medical and Scientific Research Act, the wording was used "to a small extent more than minimally." Can the Minister give examples of what treatments and investigations are regarded as'minimum' and what, then, is 'less than minimal'? How does the Minister define the term "standard treatment"? Take Duchenne's disease. That's a muscle disease where muscle weakness is increasing. It's getting worse. There is no standard treatment for it yet, but there are treatments aimed at slowing down the disease process and fighting the symptoms. Then what is the standard treatment in this case? Is it specifically possible in this case to reduce a muscle biopsy under the proposed legislation? New research can be particularly valuable for those diseases for which there is no treatment yet and where symptom control is carried out. But what if this symptom control only concerns a mild treatment, for example only pain relief, without many side effects? For the severe and very painful blistering disease.............................................................................................................................................................. Is this the standard treatment? It is of course a disease that you would very much like to do research on, to see which treatment is possible. Can it then be that, contrary to this treatment, further research aimed at healing is hindered? I'd like to get a response from the Minister. I now come to the age reduction from 18 to 16. This is another change in the law, in line with the opinion of the NVK. The age of 16 years to allow independent consent to participate in a study is aligned with the age of the Medical Treatment Agreement Act, the WGBO, to opt for or not for treatment. I'm sure D66 will agree with that. For children between 12 and 15 years of age, double consent is required for a study or treatment, namely of both the parents and the child themselves. I would like to know from the Minister how it is ensured that information on taxation and on the potential risks is focused on this age group. How is it handled with children who are on the border of will? How is a child of 11, for example, who can see the situation properly involved in the process? It has been mentioned before: seriously ill children are very often in their minds far beyond their peers with whom nothing is going on. I'm coming to a closure. D66 believes it is important to change the current Wmo, so that more opportunities can be created for important research, both in children and in unskilled people. This must be justified by the fact that there are very vulnerable groups. Since the person participating in the research does not directly benefit from this, it must be weighed very carefully. To conclude with a quote from the Doek committee: "Many parents and children indicate that the ability to participate can give hope during the disease process. It is not just about hope for improvement or healing, but also about hope for better prospects for other children who will suffer from the disease."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-9.u7	Mr. Chairman. The PVV Group believes that patients, especially minors and adults, should be protected by the government from the experimental drive and publication urge of researchers. The importance of researchers and of the financiers of medical and scientific research is not always equal to the interest of the patient. The patient is often no more than a test subject for the pharmaceutical industry. We must not lose sight of this. To find out whether new medicines work for a particular target group, research is needed with the same target group. When I read that 70% of the medicines prescribed to children are not tested on children, it is clear that there is a lack of balance. A biased balance, which according to the Doek Committee is caused by the fact that the protection of subjects weighs too heavily in the current law, thus jeopardising medical scientific progress. Apart from this progress, we are now dealing with the risk of off-label prescribing, which entails the risk of too high or too low a dose and also insufficient understanding of the side effects or contraindications. So we are now exposing children to these kinds of risks, under the guise of protection. We can't close our eyes to this. The PVV Group therefore believes that there should be more scope for research to bring the balance back, without it going to the other side. Lowering the age limit at which children can decide for themselves from 18 to 16 is a logical step, because it fits in with the WGBO. That non-therapeutic research is also possible if it would bring any benefit to that target group, without too much disadvantage to the standard treatments, is a good compromise, because it does justice to the desire to help others. We do have a few more questions for the Minister. Is the increase in the number of studies monitored? Is there, for example, a record of how many phase 1 studies are being started and how many of them end up reaching Phase 3 or 4? To what extent can minors stop halfway through the investigation? Who's gonna decide that? As far as PVV is concerned, the Netherlands does not have to take the lead in investigating minors, but the Netherlands has to go along with it. Can the Minister explain in this context how the Netherlands has allowed the European regulation to be extended beyond what was originally envisaged? Why has the Netherlands been committed to including competitive deadlines in the review process in order to make Europe more attractive in the international clinical investigation market? Does this really make the patient better or is it a knee-down for the pharmaceutical industry? I would like to hear a response from the Minister. Two amendments have also been tabled. One amendment has been tabled by the Christian Union to prevent young people between 16 and 18 years of age from participating in research for financial reasons. We are in favour of this. It shouldn't be that this is seen as an easy way to earn a penny. Before we judge this, I would like to hear the Minister's response to the amendment. The second amendment was tabled by VVD and D66 on the release of that upper limit. In the explanatory statement, the applicants state that this meets the wishes of the patient organisations and the Doek Committee. Is that how the Minister sees it? What were its reasons for not including this amendment, which was tabled a year ago, in a slightly different version, in the letter of amendment and as part of the law? We are very curious about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-9.u8	Mr. Chairman. This kind of medical-ethical debate has a very different atmosphere than the average debate in this house. That's what it turns out today. It's kind of a contemplative thing, where you see people trying very hard to figure out what's going on in the law. It is also a very complex balance of interests. I must say that I like it very much, I cannot say otherwise. Carefulness, that's what today's legal treatment is all about. How do we handle human-related studies in children and incompetent adults? Are we careful when we set the limit within which this investigation is allowed, very strict and hard? Are we careful to ensure that children with a terminal disease and, for example, Alzheimer's patients at an advanced stage of their disease are as far as possible exempt from research? Or are we careful when, taking into account the impact of the study, the severity of standard treatment and the patient's personal circumstances, we offer room for human-related research? The current legislation clearly opts for the first principle of care. Children and non-skills should be protected as much as possible from human-related research. It is certain that a focus on that care, a lot of research on children and unskilled adults is prevented. However, as a result, we also have great difficulty in developing appropriate and careful treatments for future patients, and the question is how careful and appropriate the current treatments actually are. In fact, we know that there is much unknown about the appropriate action and dosage of medicines, especially in children. Mrs Dijkstra has just given a very good example of this. By protecting patients as much as possible from human-related research, future patients will also be confronted with inadequate treatments. Since 2006, the Dutch Association of Paediatrics, the NVK, has already indicated that this is an undesirable situation that should change. Now, nine years later, we have the chance to actually make that change happen. As far as the VVD is concerned, it is not just a question of drug research, but also of non-drug research. Especially in children and minors with very serious diseases, medicines other than medicines, such as new devices, other therapies or other diagnostics, can make an important contribution to the treatment and thus to medicine for this group as a whole. That is why the VVD simply chooses the second concept of care. An answer to the question of whether non-therapeutic human-related research is permitted should not depend on a strict limit, but should be able to be assessed individually on various issues, such as the impact of the study, the severity of the treatment and the patient's personal circumstances. That is why the VVD, together with D66, has already tabled an amendment to the present bill in 2013 to enable this "patent-to-measure limit" in the interests of the child and in the interests of the willless. Since then, the bill has undergone two changes in shape. The last letter of amendment................................................................................................................................................................................................... The limit is no longer absolute, but is determined by the concept of proportionality. Whether research is permitted depends partly on the severity of standard treatment. If it is heavy, an investigation with some gravity can also be allowed, provided, of course, the other due diligence requirements are met. It is a broader criterion than the criterion initially proposed by the Minister "to a small extent more than minimal risk'. The VVD welcomes the extension of the European regulation. This makes it possible for large groups of children and will-educated people to benefit from research in the future with a small group of children and will-educated people. The NVK also explicitly points out the great advantage that children can participate in international studies as a result of the proposed legislative amendment. This is very important for science and for future appropriate treatments. In the second letter of amendment, the criterion of proportionality in relation to standard treatment is used uniformly, both in pharmaceutical studies and in non-drug studies. Although the VVD welcomes the extension of the research opportunities introduced by the introduction of this criterion, it would like to go a step further where possible. With the amendment tabled by the VVD and D66, we want, where possible, to make the assessment of proportionality not only depend on standard treatment, but also on the patient's personal circumstances. This is in line with the opinion issued by the Doek Committee at the time. In personal circumstances, the age, severity of the condition, the stage of the condition, the progressive course of the condition, the damage caused by the condition and the lack of possible alternative treatments may be considered. The VVD is aware that the European regulation does not allow any adjustments to the assessment framework for medicinal products research, but the regulation does not deal with non-drug studies, which are of great importance. Examples include tools, new diagnostics, radiations or psychological research. This is all very important for improving future treatments. The D66 amendment and the VVD make it possible for the Minister to General Administrative Measure lays down detailed rules on criteria for non-drug studies in children and will-skills. I very much hope that the Minister and a majority of the Chamber will be able to count on the approval of the bill and amendment, so that we will invest in safe and effective treatment for children and the unskilled within careful limits in the future. I am therefore very interested in the Minister's assessment of the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-9.u9	I assume that Mr Rutte has come to the end of his piece under the heading 'amendment'. I'm reading it and what I don't see in it is that the new part d is taken out of the law. I believe that there is an upper limit, namely minimum taxation and a minimum risk. Is the explanatory statement to the amendment we received today still perhaps the old explanatory statement from 2013? Because it says that the upper limit is going down. But that is not what Mr Rutte is trying to do with the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-9.u10	No, I didn't. I shall have to look at that very carefully. For this very reason, as Mrs Keijzer pointed out, the amendment has undergone a number of amendments. First, this was done in the explanatory memorandum and then in the operative part of the amendment. If it weren't for each other, we'd still have to do it. In the case of pharmaceutical research, the standard is as it stands in the law, which we cannot alter, because it is in line with the European regulation. But for non-drug research, we want to offer more space per General Measure of Management.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-9.u11	If I understand correctly, the expiry of the upper limit applies only to the non-drug study.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-9.u12	Yeah, that's the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-9.u13	Indeed, I have read the latter: the upper limit expires in non-drug studies. The explanatory memorandum to the second letter of amendment states that research without medicinal products, but for example with medical devices or research into new treatment methods, may be burdensome and may involve risks. The VVD just gave a number of examples of this. If I read this and add the amendment, I cannot understand why you are tabling it. After all, there is a clear indication that there may be risks. Why, then, is this amendment designed to remove the entire upper limit?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-9.u14	In my speech, I went through that very closely. That is precisely what this is all about. What do you think carefully? Do you think it's careful to take as little risk as possible for children and the unskilled? Then you have to define a very hard upper limit and explain the amount of research that is possible as little as possible. If you think that you want to have the best possible treatment for future generations, it seems sensible to use a slightly more flexible upper limit. That really doesn't mean, let's be clear, that anything can happen. The Minister will have to lay down detailed rules at AMvB and the medical-ethical review committees will have to take this into account. When it comes to whether or not we're doing research, we have to look at the patient's circumstances. There's more to that than just standard treatment. In fact, according to the criterion of proportionality with regard to standard treatment, you might say that you can, while looking at the patient's personal circumstances, you say that you cannot. That flexible upper limit doesn't mean we can do anything. In some cases, based on personal circumstances, less can be done, but in many cases something will be possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-9.u15	Of course, the personal circumstances will always have to be looked at. In that light, I have never seen the limit proposed in the legislative proposal as a hard upper limit. It is always a frontier in which the personal situation of people, the limit of minimum risk and minimum tax, is considered. By taking this out of the law and introducing an AMvB, on which we have to wait a while, will we not achieve a clear review framework for the review committees of the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-9.u16	We may differ on that. It is not the intention to create confusion and fog, it is about giving room to the medical-ethical review committees to come to a proper balance on the basis of personal circumstances. I just mentioned what it could be about: age, severity of the condition, stage of the condition, progressive progression of the condition, damage caused by the condition and the lack of alternative treatments. That's a little bit wider than what's in the law. I think that's good, but that really doesn't mean that everything is allowed and that there's no testing. There's a test going on. Personal circumstances need to be taken into account. Mrs Dijkstra and I are convinced that this amendment can be more tailor-made than is possible with the legislation as it currently stands. The explanatory memorandum lays down compensatory measures which contribute to the protection of two vulnerable groups, namely children and adults. The medical-ethical review committees play a crucial role in this. It is proposed that a pediatrician should sit on the review committees assessing investigations involving minors. The VVD supports that. However, the explanatory memorandum also states that in view of the wide variety of conditions and specialities, it is not feasible to do so also in the review committees that judge research with will-be skills. It has already been suggested that a geriatric or a specialist in old-age medicine might be able to take part in this, but it is of very little use to a determined psychiatric patient. So that is understandable in itself, but the question is: what do we do? What possibilities does the Minister see to ensure that the knowledge and expertise of the required specialists are represented in the review committees? I'd like to get a reaction to that. The VVD welcomes the fact that the limit of consent for the independent choice for participation in human-related research is reduced from 18 to 16 years. This reduction is in line with the advice of the Dutch Association for Paediatrics (NVK). A number of people have said something about that. The VVD entrusts seriously ill 16-year-olds with the ability to decide independently whether they want to participate in better treatments for many children in the future. I'm rounding up. The VVD is happy that the long process of coming to the present legislation is coming to a conclusion today in the Lower House. It is careful legislation that is important for achieving effective therapies for and healing many people. I therefore sincerely hope that this legislation will be approved by the Chamber. That is in the interests of children and of unskilled adults.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-9.u17	I have a question. I have the amended amendment in front of me. So that is not yesterday's amendment, but what has just been distributed. It is correct in the explanatory statement. It says this can be seen in non-drug studies. For that, the upper limit is removed. But what is now covered by "non-drug research"? I think implants and tools fall underneath, but we don't know what they're gonna be able to do with computer-controlled cases in ten years' time. If you remember that, is it not risky to remove such an upper limit, precisely because the new upper limit is based on a minimum risk and a minimum burden on the standard treatment and the person in question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-9.u18	I think Mrs Keijzer is right that this is a matter of resources. I just said it could be a diagnosis. It may also be about taking a biopsy. I did not mention that, but that is also covered by non-drug research. These are all matters that can be of great importance for research. It's not like we're just gonna let everything go without saying. I was just saying that to Mrs. Fat. D66 and VVD want a tailor-made assessment and that a wider spectrum of issues around the patient can play a role in this. It is not for nothing that it should be settled more closely at AMvB. We want to give a little more room for manoeuvre in this respect, because it can indeed be about important therapeutic opportunities that we leave out, so that we may be at risk of continuing to expose children and commercial incompetents to less effective therapies.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-9.u19	I think we are all making that last assessment. That is why we have all said here that we are looking forward to this extension. However, I still do not see why the upper limit which does apply to medicines, according to VVD and D66, does not apply to implants, devices, radiations and I do not know what else we can come up with in the field of computer-controlled...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-9.u20	...treatments.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-9.u21	... interventions or treatments. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. That is not clear to me. I would like to hear some more about this, because I fear that we are going a little too far with this. I even wonder if it is in accordance with the regulation, but that is a question for the Minister. I would like to hear more from Mr Rutte about my first question on the weighing-up of treatments.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-9.u22	We welcome in itself the extension of the regulation. It's much better than the way it's arranged now. Well, that's for sure. We would have preferred it to have been possible, as we have described in our amendment, to have a somewhat broader review framework in its entirety. However, the new European regulation does not allow this. It is forcing this standard, as it currently stands in the law, to be applied to medicinal products. I am very honest in this: even with medicines I would have preferred to go one step further, I would have preferred to have a tailor-made assessment. Therefore, the choice to say that it is for non-drug research has everything to do with the fact that the European regulation does not allow that scope for investigation of medicinal products. Let us be clear about this: we must all make it clear that both D66 and the VVD are absolutely not in favour of anything being allowed. We strongly support a clear review framework for the METCs, the Medical Ethics Review Committees, but we would like to be tailored, taking into account the patient's personal circumstances.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-9.u23	The Minister has indicated that it will take some time to prepare for the response. Someone said in his contribution: it is a complex balance of interests. So I think we should give her that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-9.u24	Mr. Chairman. The history of the bill we are debating today begins eight and a half years ago. I would like to take your Chamber back to the question of how we got here and why I have submitted two notes of amendment. It contains a lot of explanations that Members have asked for. In 2007, the CCMO indicated that it had to reject certain forms of scientific research with children because of the strict requirements of the law, while it considered that it was important research that was ethically admissible. These were in particular medical scientific research in which the participating children themselves could not benefit, the "non-therapeutic research." If in such a type of study the risks are more than negligible and the objections are more than minimal, it is rejected in accordance with the Medical Scientific Research Act with Humans (WMO). Such research can, however, be approved in other European countries. The CCMO indicated that this is to the detriment of the progress of medicine for children in the Netherlands. Partly on the basis of this signal, the Doek Commission has been set up. In her report, the Doek Committee wrote that she is aware of the physical and psychological vulnerability of children participating in scientific research. However, she felt that the possibilities of children should also be considered. The child is not only caring and protective, but it is also a person with views and feelings who should be given a place in the consideration of medical research. The legal requirement that medical research with children in which the participating children themselves do not directly benefit should minimise the associated risks and objections, the Doek Committee, like the CCMO, considered as a bottleneck. This legal requirement was considered too restrictive by the committee. The Wmo makes medical-scientific research with multi-year-old will-skills the same requirements as medical-scientific research with children. There are no concrete signs that these demands are an obstacle to scientific research with adult will-skills. However, certain scientific research cannot be carried out in this group either. In view of the progress of medicine for, for example, mentally disabled or demented persons, it is important that there are no obstacles that cannot be justified. In particular, in the field of degenerative diseases of the nervous system, such as Alzheimer's disease, the amount of scientific research is increasing rapidly. The aim is to make use of the innovative strength of the Netherlands in the fields of science, product innovation and care. Several professional associations, such as the Dutch Association for Clinical Geriatrics and the Association of Doctors for Intelligible Disabled, have indicated that they are in favour of an extension of the Wmo for research with adults. They also see no reason why adult will-skills should be subject to stricter requirements than children. Therefore, the legal criterion does not make a difference between children and will-skills. Then came the first letter of amendment. For children and adults, the Wmo provides strict guarantees because of the vulnerability of these groups. For research in which minors and adults can not benefit from participation themselves, that is, the non-therapeutic study, the current Wmo contains the requirement of negligible risk and minimum objection. That means a very strict limit. Following the Doek Committee's report, the dilemma has concentrated on whether there should be a lighter demand which is still of an absolute nature, which would be an upper limit for acceptable risks and objections, or whether the upper limit should be dropped as a whole. The Advisory Section (Council of State) has recommended that a clear upper limit be included in the legislative proposal. It refers to the CCMO's reaction to the position and to a draft legislative proposal. In this response, the CCMO has indicated its support for scientific research in which the minor or adult will-incompetent subjects cannot expect any benefit, although less stringent than the current limit. In reply to a few questions, therefore, I have not changed this for reasons of substance. My consideration was that the Council of State has advised me and that the CCMO has indicated that it wants an upper limit. They would consider this not so much as a narrowing of the possibilities, but as a legal support to actually put the researchers under pressure to minimise the risk. That's why I did it. In their description of the advantages and disadvantages, the Advisory Section of the Council of State and the CCMO have given the greatest importance to the protection of the participating vulnerable subjects. Advantage of maintaining an upper limit with less stringent requirements than before is that researchers will make greater efforts to minimise risks and objections, partly because the Medical Ethics Review Committees and the CCMO maintain a harsh rejection criterion. With an upper limit with lighter requirements, more research will be possible than with the current Wmo.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-9.u25	Mrs Keijzer has an interruption on the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-9.u26	I hear the Minister say that she has not had any substantive consideration to send this bill to the Chamber. But the moment you take such advice, you make it of yourself, don't you? Now it seems as if the Minister is a little out of line. I think she's wronging herself with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-9.u27	You can say: I have reached a different conclusion in substance. However, we believe that in practice it does not matter for content, because proportionality is involved and there are no absolute but relative criteria in it, but that the CCMO has a legal support in this respect towards researchers. So I don't think there should have been more rejection if we hadn't done so and so I would have kept up the original bill. That is not possible because we now have a directive, but what if that had been the case? That relativity is in it now too. So it's a backrest.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-9.u28	But it is also necessary for this Minister's policy, because she also feels it is necessary for that support to be there. That appeals to the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-9.u29	Yes, that's a procedural argument that I think I can imagine. That's why I took over. Following the advice of the CCMO, a review framework based on Anglo-Saxon model was established. In this model, medical scientific research in well-reasoned cases allows a minor increase over minimal risk, or a "lowly greater than minimal risk'. Mrs Keijzer said, I believe, that we have a lot of terms and that the confusion of all these terms entails a lot of obstacles. That is why I am extremely pleased that, in the second letter of amendment, which we launched in connection with the European regulation on clinical trials, we are simply discussing a minimum risk and a minimum load. Then we can put all the complicated terms further behind us. In May 2014, the EU Regulation on clinical trials on medicinal products for human use was definitively adopted. It requires, inter alia, that, before a minor or a multi-year-old will-savvy person may be involved in non-therapeutic medical research, the examination should contain only a minimum risk and a minimum burden compared to the standard treatment of the minor's condition or the adult will-savvy person. Although, in due course, the entire Medical Scientific Research Act will have to be brought into line with the new Regulation, it has already been considered in advance how the criterion of "less than minimum risk" in the present legislative proposal relates to the definition of "minimum" in the Regulation linked to the standard treatment. As a result, the Regulation's criterion leaves more room for non-therapeutic medical research in children with severe diseases. Now that it is desirable to give this group more scope for such research, the criterion of the regulation should be preferred and incorporated into the legislative proposal. This brings the law into line with standards that are expected to apply to clinical trials in 2016 from the entry into force of the Regulation. It can therefore be noted that this regulation concerns only research into medicinal products and not research into non-drugs. We have chosen to set a single standard for non-therapeutic research in the legislative proposal, from the point of view of consistency and clarity, both for pharmaceutical research and non-drug research. However, I have no objection to it if the Chamber felt a strong urge to amend it. It seems consistent to me to put it in one framework. Now I come to the adjustment of the age limit for giving independent consent. The second letter of amendment also contains the proposal to reduce the age limit for granting independent authorisation to participate in research from 18 to 16 years. In its opinion, the Doek Committee already considered whether the Medical Scientific Research Act with People (WMO) could be more age-related to the Medical Treatment Agreement Act (WGBO). The Dutch Association for Paediatrics has been asked for advice on this and sees no reason for a different age limit for the decision to participate in scientific research than usual in other forms of care. According to the pediatricians, 16-year-olds are well able to decide on this. Furthermore, the Dutch Association for Paediatrics advised that in the history of law, there were arguments for keeping a limit of 16 years in the WGBO and in what way these arguments correspond to the practice of scientific research. The argument for a different age limit in the creation of the WMO was not based on the cognitive skills of children. In setting up the WMO, the justification for the age limit was that the study could not benefit the persons concerned and that the demand for participation does not originate from the subjects. However, the fact that parents must also give permission, because scientific research cannot benefit the person concerned, does not coincide with the principle of the WGBO that in a person who has reached the age of 16, this necessary insight may be assumed. In addition, it was not substantiated at the time why parental consent would be necessary if the question of participation did not arise from the subject. As a rule, care is characterised by a patient's request for help, but the offer of care is not determined by the patient. Equalising the age at which individuals decide to participate in scientific research in the WMO with the 16-year standard of care has the advantage that more research can take place among young people. I think that I have made the assessment of why we have reduced age and why parents do not have to decide with children between 16 and 18 years of age. The Committee of Inquiry remains, even if someone is 16 or 17 years old, to check whether the usefulness is proportionate to the risks and the tax. The Committee also checks whether the written information provided to the children is understandable and whether the risks are sufficiently explained so that the child can make a well-balanced decision. Due to the age reduction, young patients can contribute to the promotion of medicine in view of their vulnerability. This is also in line with the opinion of the Doek Committee. She recommended that more account be taken of the child's wishes. A number of Members have actually asked for the same thing, namely: what can't happen now and later? That is extremely difficult to indicate, because this is a relative issue in this legislative proposal. It therefore depends on the situation of the CCMO for assessment. I can give you some examples. According to the current legal standard for non-therapeutic studies in children, the limit for investigative actions generally considered acceptable is a single blood sample, an MRI scan or a daily intake. With the modified standard, it is conceivable that several of such operations may be carried out within an investigation. The discussion about the limitations in the current law arose following signals from the CCMO about a study in boys with Duchenne's disease. It was about whether a muscle biopsy could be taken in the children when testing a new medicine. Those kinds of decreases could happen by now, like a CT scan or the collection of urine via a catheter. That is the kind of thing that Members should be thinking about. I now come to the consequence of the proposal for a study on suicide prevention. The fact that minors from the age of 16 are allowed to decide for themselves to participate makes it easier to carry out that investigation. In the situation to which Mrs Kooiman referred, this was more difficult because the parents had to be involved. That was perceived as obstructive. I would just like to comment on the terminology. We have had debates on such terms before. It makes it all very difficult, but the term "negligible" really dates back to the 1990s. Internationally, soon after the creation of the old law that we are now adapting, the wider term "minimum" was chosen. That term is seen as less restrictive. Moreover, in the legislative proposal, the term "minimum" is linked to the standard treatment of the patient, thus making him relative. What about the review framework? A guideline is currently being worked on in a Brussels working group. That guideline explains the standards contained in the Regulation. The Netherlands is very active in this working group and is working on a proposal for a new explanation. The CCMO, together with the review committees, will consider what this European guideline means for the implementation of the Dutch review framework. This will be available in the course of 2016. The use of the review framework will then also be monitored in practice. So that is quite consistent with this law if we had a prosperous treatment. How are the interests of incompetent people secured? Studies with willing adults should only be carried out if willing adults are not suitable as test subjects. It must therefore be absolutely necessary. If the research concerns the willlessness of individuals, for example in dementia, you cannot ask healthy people for it. A medical-ethical review committee shall review the investigation protocol before the examination may be carried out. In doing so, the Committee looks at the risks, the importance of the research, the methodology chosen and so on. Can I confirm that 40% of the medicines are not registered for children? Different sources give different percentages. The Dutch Association for Paediatrics gives a range from 40% to 80%. Of the most commonly used medicines, approximately one third is not registered for children but is safe to use. Is it true that the pharmaceutical industry does not opt for Dutch because of the rules, and that sick children cannot participate? In practice, this law has meant that research could not take place here and in all other countries around us. So children could not participate here either, while they could in other countries. That was also the reason for this bill. I now turn to the amendment to item No. 16 by Mrs Dik-Faber. The fee a subject receives must be reasonable. It must not result in a test subject being willing to take risks that he or she would not take if there were no compensation. For children, it is generally a small matter to meet the commitment and contribution to the research, as well as a fee for any travel and accommodation costs. In my opinion, the amendment maintains this practice. So I'll leave the verdict to the Chamber. Can I confirm that "no, unless?" can be explained in this way?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-9.u30	In order to assess it, I have the following question on the amendment, which I would have liked to put to Mrs Dik-Faber. I understand that no financial compensation is available for children aged 16 to 18 at the moment. So it wouldn't be the case at all. So I find the amendment on this point a little complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-9.u31	Travel and subsistence costs can be paid, and the amendment will soon be able to do so. In my view, the amendment does not matter very much. That is why I leave the judgment to the Chamber. The law says you can't pay for it already. If Mrs Dik-Faber thinks that this amendment makes it clearer, I am fine with it. That is why I leave the judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-9.u32	I am curious to see what Mrs Faber means by her amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-9.u33	Currently, research offices are recruiting students at universities. If students are willing to participate in scientific research, then there is a fee. This fee is often higher than only the actual costs incurred by students. I've heard of students just doing this as a side job. They make their own assessment of this. I am concerned that this law brings the independent power to decide to participate in research back to the age of 16. This would enable what is now happening in universities, which young people are paid for research, to happen in secondary schools. And I'm a little afraid of that. I wouldn't want high school kids to get more than just an expense allowance. They would be tempted to participate in research for financial reasons. That's what the amendment says. It doesn't help that we're going back to 16 years. It doesn't help that there's gonna be a fee. However, in my perspective, I would prefer not to see those disproportionate fees that I see in universities introduced into secondary schools.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-9.u34	If the amendment were to raise the age again, I would not have left the judgement to the Chamber either. Well, that's for sure. I leave the judgment to the Court, because the amendment maintains the practice laid down in the law. If Mrs Dik-Faber thinks that her amendment makes it clearer, I think that is fine, but in my opinion the compensation is already an expense. It's about little things and not about paying.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-9.u35	Is that sufficiently clear, Mrs. Arib?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-9.u36	Not quite. There are different interpretations of the amendment. Mrs Dik-Faber is particularly concerned about the future, but this is absolutely not the case in paediatric medicine. It's not gonna happen. Besides, the Medical Ethics Review Committee is in the middle of this. An amendment is now being tabled on a situation which does not exist in practice. That's why I find it difficult. I'm not gonna vote for anything that doesn't make sense in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-9.u37	That seems clear to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-9.u38	I come to the question of "no, unless" versus "yes, if." The Doek Committee recommended that we move on to 'yes, if'. Non-therapeutic research requires protection and therefore the starting point remains that minors should be protected, so do not participate in non-therapeutic research unless there is additional protection under the law. There are patients for whom there is no standard treatment. Can research be allowed if it is not more than symptom control? As the national attorney pointed out, the European legislator has not sought to distinguish between medical and symptomatic treatments. Therefore, what patients are used to in the context of symptom control or other non-curative treatments will also be included. I come to the opinion of the NVK that there are too few medicines registered due to obstacles to children in the law. It is important that there is sufficient knowledge of the safety and efficacy of medicinal products in children. Medicines should also be registered for children. To the extent that there are obstacles to drug research with children in the law, this proposal provides for an extension of the scope, especially for research in seriously ill children.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-9.u39	I come back to the Minister's previous point, the standard treatment. The minister said that could also be symptom control. The amendment by VVD and D66 on this point concerns the upper limit, but if there is no standard treatment at all, how can you determine the relativity of the research?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-9.u40	There are diseases that cannot be treated. The treatment then often consists of symptom control and therefore these people are often used to it. It's not like they don't get treatment like healthy people, because they usually get proper treatment to fight the symptoms. But it is true that it is then set against the treatment that the subject is accustomed to undergo.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-9.u41	So you're looking at the nature and severity of the patient's condition?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-9.u42	That all counts. Not only the situation of the subject and the severity of the disease count, but also what someone is accustomed to undergo. So it's not something you can define very sharply beforehand. In the end, therefore, the review committee determines what is or is not allowed in the relativity of that treatment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-9.u43	Mrs Dijkstra, I see that you want to interrupt again, but we really do interrupt in two. Since you're in such great need, I'll allow a very brief interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-9.u44	I assume that the Minister will still give her judgment on our amendment to which this point comes back.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-9.u45	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-9.u46	Mr. Chairman. What do I think of the statement that this is a negligible extension? I disagree. We've been talking about it for eight and a half years now, but it's still our job to take a good look at the balance between the dilemmas of the vulnerable people you want to protect and what you allow. For this balance, we look at those who make up their minds over and over again, the CCMO. That is the organ that has a clear view of what can and cannot be allowed. The CCMO has been closely involved in the whole process. I removed the upper limit initially, but at the request of the CCMO I put it back in order to increase the pressure on researchers. There is, therefore, an extension which, in line with what the CCMO has asked us to do, gives room for more research in children and incompetent people. Is there a distinction between intervention and observational research? Observational research can also be far-reaching for children, e.g. a scopy. The admissibility of the study will always be assessed in relative terms, as the proposed criterion allows sufficient distinction to be made between intervention and observational research. How can it be ensured that information on taxation is concentrated on this group? How are children treated at the 12-year-old age limit? The CCMO will, of course, review such an investigation. The CCMO therefore assesses whether the information provided is sufficiently understandable for the group to decide on it. It is therefore an aspect that is being examined precisely. The information must, of course, also be tailored to the comprehension of the children concerned. I have already answered the question about what was not possible before but can now. I have given a number of examples, for example a muscle biopsy, catheter urine collection, a CT scan and an X-ray. It's very difficult to record that in a list. I've seen lists of 1, 2, 3, but what you can put on top of it depends on what a child is used to in his treatment. Then I come to the situation in other countries. The European Regulation shall enter into force in May 2016. Then, from May 2016, this directive will apply throughout the EU. I was asked to go into more detail about the choice to apply the regulation for both pharmaceutical research and non-medical research. As I indicated earlier, I did so for clarity, clarity. For example, there is a single framework for both drug and non-drug studies. It was asked whether I really do object to the removal of the upper limit in non-drug studies. I've done that before for drug trials. Those who have to assess it have said: we prefer legal support. So, at their request, it was done. So it's more of a procedural reason. For me, the fact that a judging authority itself is asking for it has really been a reason to include it in the law. Then, of course, the question can be asked: is it not more restrictive than if the upper limit is applied? Apparently, it's not. Apparently, the CMO itself would have used what we have now incorporated into the law as a review framework.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-9.u47	I would like to know from the Minister whether she can further implement this in the General Measure of Management, as our amendment provides for. Doesn't she see that as a good opportunity to make it even more flexible? As Mr Rutte pointed out earlier, there is also a chance that in some cases it might be made more restrictive. It's gonna be so much more flexible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-9.u48	If I did it in an AMvB, I would always do it again in consultation with the CCMO. In consultation with her, I have also laid down the criteria in this law. Such an AMvB wouldn't look very different after all. The CCMO still likes to have a support in its back to be able to assess what has been submitted to it. That was also her response to the original bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-9.u49	Do I understand correctly that this means that the Minister is dissuading the amendment? How does she look at it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-9.u50	I'll leave this to the Chamber. I'd prefer to take care of it like I did myself. Otherwise, I wouldn't have arranged it myself. Mrs Dijkstra asked if I am going to be incredibly opposed to her amendment. My answer to that is: no, because I do not think that it is much different in substance. Those who have to test have set this as a criterion. The committee itself states: we like it when it is in the law, because we feel it is a little support to researchers to minimize the risks. She asked me to do this. I think that is a good argument; that is why I am putting this in the law. The way I see it, it doesn't make a big difference to get this out of the law and do it with an AMvB. I would do that in consultation with the CCMO. The CCMO is likely to set the same criteria as it requested in response to the legislative proposal. So we are being very complicated, but in the end it looks the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-9.u51	I was the first to have a brief debate on this with the Minister. In fact, I found that she did wrong to herself and to the care of this legislation by saying: I took over the opinion of the CCMO for procedural reasons, as it supports over-enthusiastic researchers and pharmaceuticals. Now there is an amendment to get that support out of the law in non-drug research. Then you think, as I just said, that's not so complicated. After all, drugs are the hardest thing to do. But it is not, because as I have just said, we can also talk about devices, implants and I know what else they will come up with in the field of computer-controlled medicine or radiation. I hear the Minister say the same thing again. I would like it so much, and it is to the benefit of the care of all the considerations made by the CCMO, to see a minister standing here saying: no, we sometimes have too enthusiastic researchers, too hard-working pharmaceuticals, and sometimes even parents who want to make things better with their child, and that is why that upper limit also applies to non-drug research. That is why I do not understand why she leaves the opinion on this amendment to the Chamber. I would therefore like to make another attempt to obtain a somewhat more substantive appreciation from the Minister of this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-9.u52	What I have just argued is that it does not matter in substance. In substance, I will say that I will establish rules for non-drugs myself through an AMvB, in consultation with the CCMO. Those rules do not therefore deviate from the rules that I have now laid down in the law. In fact, the added value of an AMvB is that I make the same demands on a complicated route, but that it doesn't matter in terms of content.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-9.u53	If that's the case, we have a delay of a few years here for nothing. We would then have had enough to do with the very first legislative proposal, in which the border was removed. It is not without reason that we have had a discussion with the CCMO and with all kinds of other organisations, which ultimately means that there is a legislative proposal with an upper limit. I do not understand this answer at all. Let us be clear that the CDA is against this amendment, precisely because the consequences can be enormous in non-drug research too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-9.u54	I'm not judging that in the same way. I myself initially tabled a legislative proposal without an upper limit, not because I thought "everything is fine," not at all, but because I think proportionality and relativity are very important. Then I got a reaction from the CCMO, who said I could find it, but asked if I could not put it into law and attach a criterion that would have been used by the CCMO in the original bill, only it would not be in the law, but it would have been made by the CCMO itself. She asked: Can you not put what we ourselves make into the law, because we find a firmer position in it? I think that's a good argument. It is not a substantive argument, but it is a procedural argument and a good argument. That's why I changed it. Moreover, the directive in Europe, which has the same terms throughout Europe, has got over that. So I recorded it. I don't see the point of completely converting part of the law into an AMvB. In that AMvB I will not write down much more than I have now written down in the law. So, in substance, I see the point. I did not choose it myself; I brought it under one regime, because I think it provides a clear framework for you to be clear. It is up to the Chamber to decide for itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-9.u55	But then the Minister's view is that the amendment is superfluous. I would like to hear that, so that we keep the focus of the debate on this very important issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-9.u56	In the end, each group has its own opinion on the amendments. I didn't choose it in the bill myself. That's clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-9.u57	I think the Minister is failing himself if she limits it to procedural reasons only. She herself states that the CCMO needs support in the back. However, in the explanatory memorandum to the second letter of amendment, the Minister states that research without medicinal products, but with, for example, medical devices or research into new treatment methods, may be burdensome and may involve risks. That is therefore a substantive assessment of research with non-drugs. The Minister says, I think rightly, that such investigations can be burdensome and could involve risks. If the CCMO itself asks for a clear framework to be included in the law on which it can test, what is the reason why the Minister says: I am not doing it? I see procedural and substantive arguments for the Minister to include it in the law. She did, and I congratulate her on that. Now, however, there is an amendment and suddenly it is: yes, well, if the Chamber decides otherwise, I am fine with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-9.u58	I oppose the idea that without a ceiling there would be a wider regime. Some people think so. That is also the debate in society. However, I would argue that this is a misconception. It is not true that if we did things differently, many things would be possible, even because non-drug research could indeed involve risks. The CCMO therefore always draws up guidelines for this. The idea that you could do more without a ceiling than with a ceiling because it is in the law is incorrect. Otherwise, I would have initially tabled a legislative proposal on the basis of which it does not matter if there are risks involved, because we can do anything. That's not true. The CCMO uses very strict review criteria to assess whether or not something is allowed. These criteria are relative and I have put them in the law for clarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-9.u59	I listened very carefully to the Minister. She said a number of things. The CCMO needs this framework as support. The Minister also argued that letting go of an upper limit does not lead to more research opportunities. As far as my group is concerned, therefore, the amendment is not desirable either. It will cost a lot of time and energy again and generate unnecessary discussions. We simply should not do it, because it does not help us any further in terms of substance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-9.u60	It has been asked whether the bill provides sufficient safeguards for the protection of children and the ill-suited. I think I have already argued this in my introduction. What are the chances that research will harm children? We have included in the law all kinds of safeguards that I think are sufficient. On the one hand, there are the criteria in the law, on the other hand, the CCMO and the medical-ethical review committees are very good at assessing individual situations. This leads to a very careful process. In addition, the CCMO will establish a balancing framework on the basis of which it will act. It has been asked whether all parts of the legislative amendment together are sufficient to ensure that medicinal products become available. We can never say that. We can only say that there is more scope for research. I think I have already dealt with the question of financial compensation. As the law has now been formulated, the compensation is not intended to compensate for the risks. This is not the way the compensation should be intended either. Time investment, the burden associated with the research and travel and accommodation costs will be paid for. The remuneration will depend on the type of research and the circumstances. The review committees shall assess that. Are the review committees sufficiently equipped to be able to assess the investigations? We do not know how many additional investigations will be carried out on the basis of this legislative amendment. We will have to wait and see. We will, of course, keep a close eye on that. The adjustment we are making applies to all forms of research. The bottlenecks were in particular in the phase 1 study in seriously ill children. This is also where the most extensive studies can be expected. Why is there a snipe in the law? An amendment is currently under way in order to implement the EU Regulation adopted last year. That bill strictly implements the EU regulation. In substance, that bill is different from the one currently under discussion, which is based on the findings of the Doek Committee. This bill has been there for so long that we must now do what we can to widen the situation. Therefore, I have little to wait for that other change of law. I have been asked to reflect on the use of genetic data. What do parents do with that knowledge? Researchers are curious, but does the end justify the means? This discussion is, of course, topical in the profession concerned. In the case of concrete research proposals, these aspects will be carefully discussed and assessed by the CCMO and the medical-ethical review committees. Is the increase in the number of studies monitored? And can children stop halfway through? Who's gonna decide that? The increase in the number of studies is monitored. The CCMO shall report annually on this. Minors can always stop investigating. If resistance is detected or if a child does not want to or is finished with it, the examination is stopped in the child. This procedure is laid down in the code of conduct of the Dutch Association for Paediatrics. In what way have I worked in Brussels for the broader explanation than previously foreseen and for the inclusion of competitive deadlines to make the Netherlands more attractive for research? The commitment of the Netherlands was that we could have a national debate. We have therefore committed ourselves to ensuring that Brussels does not impose a restriction, but that we lay down the rules here in the national parliament. We have therefore committed ourselves to as much scope for research as possible, including with vulnerable groups such as minor and unsavory subjects. Although the Netherlands has in particular supported the possibility of national identification of limits to non-therapeutic examinations with minor and unskilled adult subjects, almost all other Member States of the European Union and the European Parliament have indicated the need to set such limits in the Regulation. Active input from the Netherlands has provided more space for research than initially foreseen by these parties. What possibilities do I see for different specialties to be represented in the Medical-ethical Review Committee, particularly with regard to adult will-skills? If the CCMO or a medical-ethical review committee does not have sufficient expertise to assess all aspects of a research protocol, it may decide to ask an outside expert. This ensures that the appropriate expertise is always involved in the assessment. We must also avoid making these committees bigger and bigger because every time there is a situation in which you need specialism. So this seems to me to be the most efficient.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-9.u61	I'd like to zoom in on those medical-ethical committees. When I listen to this afternoon's debate, we are probably going to adopt a legislative proposal that broadens the scope for research with children and the unskilled. The Minister has just indicated that external expertise may need to be flown in at certain times, also because the research questions become more complex. It seems to me that more work is going to be done on these review committees. I have seen in the budget that the contribution of the Empire goes from 1.9 to 1.8 to 1.7 million next year. The workload is therefore increasing, but financial support is decreasing. Perhaps the Minister can respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-9.u62	It is not said that we suddenly get an avalanche of investigations. These are very specialist investigations for very specific groups. Whether such an enormous increase is being taken up on these Medical Ethics Review Committees, we must therefore simply wait and see. Well, we're monitoring all of this. Every year, we look at what comes after the Medical Ethics Review Committees. On this basis, we can always decide that money should go, for example, because there is a huge increase, but if this increase does not occur, it does not have to be. Moreover, this law has not yet been passed by Parliament. So let us first look at the effects and how quickly they occur.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-9.u63	I do not expect an avalanche of investigations myself, but the medical-ethical committees must now assess 1,800 cases a year. That's a lot of them. In addition, I believe that the problems, including genetics, are also becoming more complex. This also requires greater commitment from the committees. On the one hand, we are asking for more now, but on the other hand, we are paying less. That seems to me to be a conflicting move, but do I understand that the Minister is not yet able to confirm or deny it and that she still has to look at it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-9.u64	We ask each organisation to see if they can work more efficiently. I think it is important that we also ask the review committees. If the review committees suddenly get a completely different workload, there will be a new situation on the basis of which we can make new assessments. However, I do not think it is appropriate to anticipate this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-9.u65	This suggests you're done with your term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-9.u66	Yeah, I am.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-9.u67	There is a need for a second term on the part of the Chamber. I would like to give the floor to Mrs Kooiman from the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-9.u68	Mr. Chairman. As I have said, I would listen very carefully today to my colleagues and to the Minister, because the matter is indeed complex. I welcome the examples that the Minister could give. When are you going to investigate minors, for example, or will-be-successful, and when are these investigations not and what do they consist of? It is incredibly difficult to give examples of this, but I now understand what this enlargement is about. As I said in my first term, I agree with the reduction in age. I myself was reminded of civil law, where we have already dealt with it. There is, for example, a precise comparison with treatment in youth care. Today, that upper limit is under discussion. This is also evident from the VVD and D66 amendments. I listened very carefully to the Minister. She actually says: the CMO gives legal support to want to apply that upper limit properly and that is why I have incorporated it into this law. I thought that was a very good argument to support the present law. The minister says: if you want to settle it in an AMvB, the result may remain the same. I actually thought it was very crazy to hear that from a VVD minister: so we arrange a little more bureaucracy, but then it takes longer to come up with the same thing and maybe we have less view of it. I didn't think that made any sense. The SP is always against bureaucracy and wants to be able to regulate it decisively, preferably with a legal anchor. This has actually only made me decide to support the present law more than the amendment. I have also listened carefully to the arguments put forward by Mrs Dik-Faber and Mrs Keijzer, who point out that non-drug research can be equally harmful. Look at biopsy, an example that the minister himself also offers in connection with the extension of the possibilities of this law. I would like to give you these considerations. I have not yet gone into the amendment tabled by my colleague from the Christian Union. I always think that's a nice thing when it comes to law enforcement. I understand that she would like to arrange that the financial incentive is not the main reason, but that it really has to be an expense allowance for minors. If it is only better and clearer in this law, then the SP Group can of course approve it. Finally, I would like to say that I will advise my group to have a positive attitude towards this law. Of course I will exchange the necessary information in the group, but for the time being there is a positive basis.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-9.u69	You never know how that works in such a fraction. Mrs. Arib!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-9.u70	Thank you. Perhaps you should practice on my last name a few times, which contains four letters: Arib.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-9.u71	And what do I say?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-9.u72	I heard a shorter version, but that's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-9.u73	Even shorter than four letters?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-9.u74	Good. Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for her answers. I have already expressed the position of the PvdA in my first term: we support the legislative proposal. With this law there will be more opportunities for medical research in children. This is of great importance, because in the Netherlands research is so far less possible than in countries around us. In these countries, the European obligation to test medicines for children has been established since 2007. We shall therefore vote in favour of this amendment. I am pleased that the Minister answered questions about the review framework. This is being worked out in a European working group. This will be available and monitored in the course of 2016. That seems to me to be a good thing. Then I come to the amendment tabled by my colleagues from the VVD and D66. We are aware of the Minister's reaction to this. Then we will see whether we agree or not, because I think that is a difficult issue, as other colleagues have said. I understand why D66 and the VVD want to do this now, but that just takes a little time to think about it. Mr Dik-Faber tabled an amendment on financial compensation. I hope she will take that up in her second term. We agree that children should not be encouraged by financial incentives to participate in some kind of medical examination, but I understand that this is not happening in paediatrics. Medical Ethics Review Committees monitor this, but perhaps Mrs Faber is referring to matters outside pediatrics. Then it might be worth looking at that very seriously. So I'm open to that, depending on what she's about to explain.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-9.u75	Mrs Keijzer has waived her speaking time. I call Mrs Dik-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-9.u76	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for all the answers she has given. It was very fast at times. I've taken drifting notes. I think all the questions have been more or less dealt with. One more point I want to take out. That's the genetic research. I think we're at the beginning of a genetic revolution. The Minister indicated: that is what the debate and discussion is about within the profession. If it happens in the context of research, the CCMO will test it. The ethics committees are also working on this, but I feel a little unsatisfactory about putting a stop to it, because this is about health care in our society. I think that genetic research has more impact than we can see at the moment, given the knowledge we gain from it. In this respect, I think it would be valuable to discuss this more often in Parliament. I come to my amendment. There were some questions about that. I have just looked it up and, indeed, there are research offices currently recruiting healthy young people at universities. They approach healthy students to participate in research. Students earn hundreds to thousands of euros. The minimum wage is against that. Of course, that's very attractive for students. I understand. That minimum wage is just the deal in the law. Healthy students are entitled to that. The present proposal reduces that limit from 18 to 16 years. So these research firms can expand their target group to 16-year-olds. So we're dealing with healthy 16-, 17-year-olds. I think it is fine if they take part in research and make an independent assessment, but let the money not be decisive. The purpose of my amendment is to include it carefully in the law. It would also help my group to adopt the amendment. I have one motion, which I will read soon. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the amendment of the Medical and Scientific Research Research Act extends the scope for research, thereby increasing the workload of the Central Committee for Human Research (CCMO) and the Medical Ethics Committees (METCs);]] [[noting that the financial resources for the CCMO and the METCs will decrease in the coming years;]] [[considers that the CCMO and the METCs should be able to perform their tasks properly;]] [[calls on the Government to assess, for budgetary treatment, whether the financial resources are sufficient to allow the CCMO and the METCs to carry out their tasks properly in the coming years,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33508-19]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-9.u77	Mr. Chairman. I would like to look at my text, because I still want to table an amendment, together with Mr Rutte of the VVD. In my first term, I expressed my concerns about situations that may arise if standard treatment is lacking and symptom reduction is being done. This will then be used as standard treatment, for example in Duchenne's disease. The Minister has made it clear that in this case, because children are quite used to symptom treatment, the law is expected to allow room for, for example, a decrease in muscle biopsy. However, it is still not clear to me what room the law leaves for such standard treatment, as in the case of blister disease, only concerns, for example, wound treatment. There are also hardly any treatments for metabolic diseases. In that case, I think it is important to look at the nature and severity of the disease. To this end, I have tabled an amendment, together with my colleague from the VVD. That amendment does justice to the intention of the legislative proposal to provide more scope for important non-therapeutic medical research in children and will-skills with serious diseases. Minimum load and minimum risk are maintained, but in the absence of standard treatment, the severity and nature of the disease should be considered. That is what the new amendment is about. I would also like to comment on the Minister's amendment that I tabled earlier with Mr Rutte. She says that it is actually the same as what is now regulated by the law. It's just more cumbersome, because it has to be per AMvB. In all cases, the CCMO is involved. The aim of the amendment is, above all, to ensure that there is good tailor-made work and that no fixed limits are attached, not even a fixed upper limit. Of course, every time we consider whether it is possible or not, we have to consider it very carefully. However, if you want to maintain that upper limit, at some point the situation could have arisen where the investigation would have been desirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-9.u78	I understand that we have another amendment from you, Mrs Dijkstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-9.u79	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for answering the questions. The PVV believes that this legislative proposal has achieved a good compromise between, on the one hand, medical and scientific progress and, on the other hand, the protection of children and adults. We will therefore support this bill. I see the Christian Union amendment as a welcome addition to the legislative proposal. It will discourage 16-year-olds from participating in investigations for financial reasons. We think that is a good thing. I shall therefore propose to my group that we vote in favour of this. The first amendment of the VVD and D66 seems too risky for us to accept. Non-drug studies may also be burdensome and may involve risks. An upper limit seems necessary to us to slow down over-enthusiastic researchers and pharmaceuticals. Unfortunately, I have not yet been able to accept the second amendment tabled by VVD and D66, because it has just been distributed. So I'll come back to that. The PVV supports the reduction in the age from 18 to 16 years. We find it remarkable or rather extraordinary that this Chamber does consider that a 16-, 17-year-old can decide independently to participate in medical scientific research whose long-term consequences are not to be seen, but that that same 16-, 17-year-old is not considered by this Chamber to be able to decide whether or not to have an alcoholic drink. But that aside.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-9.u80	Mr. Chairman. I will repeat what I said in the first term. This is a nice debate on a very complicated subject. All parties have sought as carefully as possible to see how we can make research in children and inability to do so without violence to the patients concerned. How can we offer new prospects for new treatments without too much violence on the patients who would undergo that study? That is the balance that we seek with each other and in which everyone makes their own assessment. It is good to hear that there is broad support in the Chamber for the bill; the VVD also supports the bill. I would like to come back to the amendment that Mrs Dijkstra and I have tabled with regard to non-drug research. Many have indicated that these studies may indeed be robust, as in the case of medicinal products. That's true. Nor have we claimed that it is about research that has little impact. No, it can have as much impact as drug trials. Let's get that straight. In her reply, the Minister made it quite clear that she did not oppose the adoption of the amendment by the Chamber, but that in practice, except that she had to regulate it through an AMvB, it would have exactly the same effect as if that amendment were not adopted. In view of what I said in the first term, I would like to know very explicitly what the Minister has to say. I said that a review should look at personal circumstances. Thought may be given to age, severity of the condition, stage of the condition, progressive course of the condition, the damage caused by the condition and the lack of possible alternative treatments. So we're talking about a custom-made border. Will this indeed not be the test criterion when the amendment is adopted? In the end, therefore, does it not matter what we do, namely withdraw the amendment or put it to the vote?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-9.u81	I'm a little surprised. The VVD supports the law that sets an upper limit for drug research. At the same time, Mr Rutte says that non-drug research can be as far-reaching as drug research. Still, he wants to get the upper limit out of there. How do you rhyme with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-9.u82	The VVD is happy with the fact that the law as it stands is going to give more room for all kinds of human-related research, with great care, whether it is drug research or non-drug research. It is clear that we had initially drafted an amendment for a somewhat broader standard throughout the law. That's what we'd really like to have done. The European regulation does not allow this for pharmaceutical research, and that is why the amendment was only about non-drug research. As I said in the first term, the question is not whether we should have different criteria because it has a lot of impact and not the other. No, actually, we just wanted to see another border, a custom-made border, in the law. VVD and D66 believe that is the best way to go. That is why these different categories should be brought into the law in this way. I think the question to the Minister was clear. I am very curious to see how she assesses the new amendment of the VVD and D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-9.u83	The Minister can answer immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-9.u84	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Dik-Faber says that the impact of genetic research on our society is considerable and that we need to talk about it in the Chamber. We have to do that, and we do that in different ways. It always comes up in different debates. So I don't think we're neglecting that. The amendment on the border for 16-, 17-year-olds states that if we do not, they will be covered by the student rule that can be paid for research. That is not true, however. Under the current law, only expenses are reimbursed. In the case of minors, extra strict attention is paid to the fee, so that the fee is not a decoy but can at most be a nice thing. That limit is therefore still at the age of underage or adulthood. I have already given the opinion on the amendment. I have another motion here. We are, of course, giving all our institutions, all our committees and everyone who works for them the budget that we think is a good budget. That's what we did here. We believe that this is a budget that can be used. So I do not want to anticipate that the financial resources would be insufficient. This law has not yet entered into force and when it enters into force, I do not expect a massive increase in the workload of the review committees. Of course it's always hard to stay within your budget. That's it for every organization. I therefore advise against this motion. I have received another amendment from Mr Dijkstra and Mr Rutte. They seek to clarify the legislative proposal with this amendment, which deals with the situation in which there is no standard treatment. I see this as a good addition. I'll leave that judgment to the Chamber. Mr Rutte asked for the amendment to be accepted. I think that the current law also looks "to measure." That is precisely what I think is the beauty of the current legislative proposal. As it is now, it is not custom-made; it is custom-made. The minimum risk for one is not the minimum risk for the other. That depends on the situation, on the disease you have and on the treatments chosen for that disease. We're not judging it, we're judging the CCMO. I therefore believe that the current law allows for that customised judgment, because it is relative and proportional.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-9.u85	I have another question about the second amendment tabled by Mr Rutte and Mr Dijkstra, in respect of item No. 18, which concerns the situation in which there is no standard treatment. Does this amendment not regulate what was already stated in the opinion of the national attorney, namely: if there is no standard treatment, can it also cover situations where there is a symptom response? Does this not actually make the interpretation of the law, which is now in all consultative documents and in the Acts, part of the law? If that is the case, I understand that amendment. That is in line with the CDA's first plea.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-9.u86	Yes. And I think you weigh the nature of the condition, as Mrs Dijkstra said. That's implicit already. You're making it explicit with this. That in itself is something so complicated, not wrong to do either.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-9.u87	On Tuesday we shall vote on the three amendments and one motion.
