ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-2.u1	Mr. Chairman. I'll take you all back to the third Tuesday of September 2014. We were in the Knight's Room together. Our King then gave the sermon of the throne, as we call it so beautiful, and in it he said the following. "After a zero line of years, the incomes of teachers, police officers, soldiers and other government staff can rise again with wage developments in the market." This was welcome news for all those in the public sector who are doing their work for the public interest. We are now months and months ahead and live in the month of June, on June 9th, to be exact. However, no collective agreements have yet been concluded. Over the past few weeks and months, we have noticed that there is a great deal of unrest among these government staff. In September they were made happy: a situation in which they have been living on the zero line for years was broken. There was room again. The Chamber passed a motion last week. In that motion, we told the government that it must do everything it can to break the deadlock on collective bargaining and to reach agreements with the trade unions as soon as possible. In the meantime, we're going to live another week. The minister responsible for the state service is here. Can he tell me what happened in the last week? What's the situation like? Can the words spoken in September for police officers, teachers, soldiers and all the other government staff finally be fulfilled?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-2.u2	Mr. Chairman. Mr Slob rightly referred to last year's speech on the throne. There's room for wages again. That is because we follow the system that the government's scope is determined by monitoring wage developments in the market. The Central Planning Bureau estimates this every year. The estimated space for this year was over 1%. That space is available for working conditions. In practice, this means that the ABP board first determines the premium. For the record, the ABP administration consists of trade unions and employers, who are equally represented. What remains is available for working conditions. This year, the established pension premium has made room for manoeuvre. This means that most of the commitment has been made in the pension contributions. In the coming years too, space will always be determined in this way. The Central Planning Office measures average wage developments in the market and thus follows the scope in the government budget. Mr Slob asked what had happened since then. I sat down with the unions and explored the possibilities. For me, an important part is also the modernisation of working conditions. In a number of areas, in particular older people's schemes and the super-statutory WW, government regulations are no longer at this time. They prevent a flexible approach as an employer. For my part, therefore, I have indicated where I would like changes to be made. Unfortunately, more than five weeks ago, the unions left the negotiating table. After that, I invited them back to the table. So far, they have not accepted that invitation. I very much regret that, because I too would like to conclude a new collective agreement as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-2.u3	I'm listening to the minister very carefully and I'm trying to imagine that I'm one of those government staff. After years of being on the zero line, I hear the Minister keep a fairly technical story. He concludes by saying that it is a pity that five weeks ago the negotiations were stopped and that he would like to resume them, but that they are not coming and that nothing can happen now. The same applies to police officers, teachers and soldiers. Now that the economy is attracting and the government has included in the budget, even multiannually, an amount of up to EUR 1.6 billion to do something, they simply expect the same government, after years of being on the zero line, to respect and understand at a time of crisis, that steps will also be taken. They do not expect the government, which actually illustrates this quite nicely here in the Minister's person, to be patient and waiting. So it can go on for weeks and maybe months. I know, Madam President, that the Chamber is not a party to collective bargaining and it should not sit on that chair either. However, through you, I would like to urge the cabinet, in the direction of this minister, to break the deadlock, to make a real wage offer and to ensure that there is really something to discuss. Where we have been able to experience the loyalty of these people for so many years when it comes to the way in which they have been treated financially, it is actually embarrassing that we have allowed this situation to last so long. If we are not careful, we will soon be far in the summer and will be lost for a whole year. Honestly, I don't think that's sellable. So through you, Madam President, towards the Minister: Cabinet, do something!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-2.u4	I agree with Mr Slob when he says that the officials in the Netherlands have shown a great deal of commitment and have made an important contribution to solving the financial problem created by the crisis by living on the zero line for so long. That is what Mr Slob is right about. Mr Slob is not right when he accuses the cabinet of a wait-and-see attitude. The cabinet didn't run away from the negotiating table. That's what the unions did. I specifically invited them to come back to the table. I have indicated that there are reasonable wishes in the cabinet to modernise working conditions. It doesn't matter to blame a cabinet that wants to sit at the table at any time for waiting and seeing if the unions have run away.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-2.u5	We asked the cabinet to take a step and break the deadlock. Then you can wait a long time for others, but if you want to talk, there will have to be something to talk about. Through you, Mr President, I would like to ask the Minister once again: will the cabinet continue its efforts in the coming days to break this deadlock as quickly as possible and to reach real agreements? Otherwise, I will be back here next week, because we simply want to see clarity in the direction of all those who are so faithful in the general interest in the various areas.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-2.u6	I am prepared to clear the agenda at any time to talk to the unions, but in order to be able to talk to each other, two parties are needed. Where a party does not want to talk at the moment, the urgency which I so clearly note with Mr Slob and who lives with me cannot result in an agreement being reached. For that agreement, I need two parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-2.u7	The people who serve the public cause, paramedics, policemen, etc. deserve respect and appreciation. Now a foreman from the party to which Mr Blok is a member has said: collective agreements on waste. Is the Minister now in the process of implementing that political line or does he want a collective agreement? If he says he wants a collective agreement, he should not refer to the unions but come up with an offer to discuss.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-2.u8	I have already indicated in reply to Mr Slob's questions that I want to conclude a collective agreement as soon as possible. That answers Mr Ulenbelt's first question. Of course, an offer was exchanged at the table we sat at until the time the unions ran away. Mr Ulenbelt can also imagine that I am not negotiating via the microphone. Of course, there was real negotiation there. Again, I would like to continue with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-2.u9	Before I got into the Chamber, I just had a job and I was a union manager. In that capacity, I have been able to negotiate many collective agreements. I know unions aren't used to coming up with crazy demands and then asking the negotiating partner if they can come pick it all up tomorrow and whether the bag they bring should be this big or even a little bigger. I understand that up until now it is not about bags where wage demands are put in, but about a box, a cigar box.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-2.u10	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-2.u11	My question is: if the Minister, who has been on the zero line for four years, welcomes the announcement that that zero line is off the table and then comes up with an offer that is closer to zero than 1% increase in wages, does he understand the unions for a moment and say that he can come back when he makes a serious offer?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-2.u12	I, too, just had a job before I went into politics. So I can certainly feel what it is like to receive an increase in wages or not. Of course there are wishes on the part of the trade unions, and I have every respect for them, but there are also wishes on the part of the employer. Once again, as far as I am concerned, this is about modernising working conditions. I really believe that the government should be able to be more flexible and that a number of schemes, especially for older people............................................................................................................................................................................................ Both parties therefore have wishes. That's normal, too. They can only come together when they get back into conversation; that remains my invitation to the unions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-2.u13	Thank you for your answers and for coming to the Chamber.
