ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u1	I would like to welcome all those present in the Chamber, particularly the Prime Minister. I propose to the Chamber that the number of interruptions be reduced to two in the first period. Then we'll see how we move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u2	Mr. Chairman. Cooperation in the field of refugees, visa liberalisation and accession negotiations are all important, but they are as separate subjects that cannot be exchanged. But what did Commissioner Timmermans do? He went on to negotiate with Turkey, without a clear mandate, ten days before the Turkish elections, while the European Union stood with its back against the wall. Meanwhile, the European Commission waited to publish a critical report on human rights in Turkey. When Timmermans presented the deal, Turkey's reaction was a day later: what deal? D66 doesn't want any misunderstandings, nor does it see anything in negotiating with principles. I therefore ask the Prime Minister: what mandate did Commissioner Timmermans have? Can the European Union deliver on the promise? Will the Member States deliver the €2.5 billion required of the €3 billion in total? And how hard are the agreements on the Turkish side? My group considers financial support for refugee shelter to be logical. We welcome the government's commitment not to interfere with the strict requirements for visa liberalisation. We would like to know more precisely how Turkey is going to spend the 3 billion. Can the Prime Minister guarantee that every penny will go to refugee shelter and not disappear in Erdogan's pocket? D66 is less reassured about the accession negotiations. That is why we have asked for this debate. The cabinet speaks of "a similar line" as with visa liberalisation. That's what it wrote in yesterday's letter. I ask the Prime Minister: why not an identical line? Why not just write clearly: accession requirements are not affected either? Maybe I'm a little too suspicious, but is there room secretly in the chosen words of the cabinet? I ask this because accession must be separate from agreements on refugee reception. Does the Prime Minister endorse that? And why does the cabinet write the following in its letter: "May the talks with Turkey lead to other chapters being opened in addition to Chapter 17..."? The European Commission's latest progress report on Turkey made no mistake. Turkey has a negative trend in terms of the rule of law, human rights and freedom of the press. That message was important just before the Turkish elections. It was therefore unacceptable to postpone the Commission's report. We must never avoid dialogue on human rights, not even at Sunday's summit. However, this is not reflected in the cabinet's commitment. For my group, human rights are precisely the most important issue this evening. My group is concerned about the reports that Turkey is refusing Syrian refugees at the border. This violates the fundamental right to asylum. Can the Prime Minister confirm that Turkey is guilty of this and will he call on the Turkish authorities to do so? The cabinet writes that the goal of the summit is to reduce the number of refugees to Europe. But should the objective not be to improve the reception of refugees in Turkey, with the possible result that fewer refugees come to Europe? What is the Dutch commitment to European resettlement quotas? What is the government's demand in this area of Turkey? In agreements with Turkey on refugees, D66 makes it a condition that asylum seekers' rights are guaranteed and that reception is actually improved.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u3	Mr. Chairman. In this matter, the main question is: do we take an approach to hope or cynicism? There seems to be every reason for a cynical approach. Erdogan's role in the Syrian conflict is questionable. The human rights situation in Turkey is vulnerable if not slipping. Freedom of the press is becoming increasingly restricted and the conflict between Russia and Turkey with the shooting down of the fighter jet does not make the international situation much more favourable to achieve anything. Nevertheless, the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance has chosen a different approach to this issue, namely that of hope and optimism. We have the hope and optimism that it should be possible, in this conversation with Turkey, with this contribution and support from the European Union, to achieve a real improvement in living conditions and the future prospects of 2 to 2.5 million refugees in Turkey. It's worth it to us to start the conversation. But that's what it's all about. As far as the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance is concerned, the focus is very much on Part 1 of the joint plan: ensuring better reception for refugees. This also applies to the fact that 3 billion seems to be a lot, but it is less than half of the amount that Turkey itself has already put into the reception of refugees. I think that's a significant fact. Can the Prime Minister please answer the question of where the money ends up? We received a letter very shortly before this debate. I must say that it presents a decision-making model that seems to me to be a dragon. It will be decided with representatives of 28 Member States and an advisory vote by Turkey. Is it possible to give UNHCR, in particular, a very strong role in this allocation of funds? After all, it is a question of getting the money to the refugees. Do we not have a good and relatively independent party in UNHCR that could steer it? Is the Prime Minister prepared to give UNHCR a firm place in that decision-making model or at least to advocate it with the European Union? When it comes to receiving refugees and ultimately trying to prevent a large, illegal and dangerous flow of refugees, tackling trafficking in human beings is an important issue. More than that is an important fact that we must improve people's future prospects on the ground in such a way as to reduce the pressure to make a dangerous journey. But if we prefer not to have an illegal flow of refugees, that also means that we will have to make the choice to reasonably oppose a legal possibility of resettlement. Is the Prime Minister, or the Government, prepared to advocate, at European level, a generous approach to the resettlement issue in such a way that we can include significant numbers of people in an orderly manner from the refugee situation in Turkey in Europe, in a way that also the most vulnerable are at the forefront of it and not at the back, as is the case today with the uncontrolled flow? Would the Prime Minister like to address that aspect? Finally, our group is taking an optimistic approach here, but that is not self-evident. It will be a question of the European Union and its Member States taking a self-conscious and credible attitude. This is an attitude in which we do not interfere with the principles of human rights, the freedom of the press and the real concern of refugees, but at the same time take our own responsibility. This means, among other things, a generous resettlement policy and broad financial support for the refugees in that area, in such a way that this money actually reaches the people who need it most.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u4	Mr. Chairman. Since the beginning of this year, the European Union has been negotiating with Turkey to make it an ally in controlling and limiting the flow of refugees. Those negotiations are difficult. The CDA is therefore sceptical about the Turkish Government's intention and concerned about the extent to which Europe seems to give in to the demands of the Turks. The main commitment for the CDA next Sunday should be that the accession negotiations should not be part of a deal between Turkey and the EU on refugees. President Erdogan uses the refugees as a political means. The Turkish threat to send masses of refugees to Europe in exchange for membership and visa-free travel is simply blackmail. The CDA recognises the need for Turkey to address the refugee problem. The flow continues in the coming years and the figures are disturbing. The numbers are slightly lower in winter than in summer. For example, there are currently fewer people crossing by boat because of the weather. However, there is a shared interest in finding a solution. That is what the talks with Turkey should be about: a common action plan in response to the worrying numbers of people fleeing. We need to talk about the fact that refugees in Turkey have absolutely no rights compared to the rights they have here. They are in camps there with hopeless status, barely education and no chance of ever becoming a citizen of that country. By the way, if we could talk in the margins about resolving the conflict in Syria, the problem would also be addressed at source. It seems as if everyone forgets that peace talks remain necessary there. The CDA Group understands that the summit may open new chapters in the negotiation process of Turkish accession. Can the Minister confirm that the Netherlands will not agree to opening new chapters? Does he share the CDA's view that, for the sake of democratic control, we should at least wait until the candidate country's progress report has been discussed, before we start to think about it at all? After all, only in November, after the Turkish elections, did the progress report appear. A better title would therefore have been "deterioration report." It indicates how the rapprochement I would say'removal' from Turkey is to European standards and standards. On the basis of this document, we politicians need to consider whether Turkey could take a next step, but it is the conclusion of the European Commission itself in this document that there is a setback in freedom of expression and a negative trend in the maintenance of the rule of law and fundamental rights. There is harassment of the media, the separation of powers is undermined, the judges are under political pressure and there is a significant deterioration in the security situation. On the basis of these observations, does the government intend to use Turkish accession as a means of exerting pressure to deal with the refugee crisis? Then there is something else that is important at the moment. The potential consequences of the shooting down of the Russian fighter plane by the Turkish Air Force overshadow this summit. Sources, as well as Turkey itself, state that the Russian hunter was only in Turkish airspace for 10 to 17 seconds. American sources say that the plane has exploded over Syria and all that while we know that Turkey is violating Greece's airspace several thousand times a year, in Northern Cyprus and, by the way, in Syria itself. As a NATO partner, we have the right to know exactly what happened. Turkey has dangerously scaled up the conflict in Syria with this action. Because of the potentially far-reaching consequences of this Turkish action, it is necessary to examine very quickly what has happened. On behalf of the CDA, I would like to ask the Minister to call on him next Sunday or in NATO to set up a committee of inquiry to identify exactly what has happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u5	Mr. Chairman. The influx of asylum seekers remains unprecedentedly high. Many thousands of asylum seekers still come to our country every month. Jihadists can easily move across Europe via the asylum influx. We say it for the hundredth time: protect our country, close the borders as quickly as possible, as the vast majority of Dutch want. The cabinet refuses. Rutte II is therefore a danger to the Netherlands. The cabinet, together with the EU, concludes a very bad deal with the Turkish dictator, with a country that stimulates the influx of asylum into Europe and plays a very dubious role in the fight against ISIS, with a regime that, through violence and intimidation in the last elections, has regained power and massively imprisoned critical journalists. While there is no guarantee at all that Turkey will limit the influx of asylum, the Netherlands will transfer as much as 117 million euros. The Turks will receive billions of help and will soon be able to travel visa-free, and the EU accession process will be accelerated. It's a very bad deal! The EU is weak and blackmailed. We say never visa-free travel and never EU membership for Turkey. In all its actions, Turkey is acting against the interests of Europe. The Netherlands and other European countries must forever distance themselves from the Erdogan regime. Turkey is not an ally at all. Turkey must leave NATO as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u6	I now give the floor to Mr Voordewind of the Christian Union. Apologies, Mr. De Roon. I didn't look very good on my list. How can I miss you?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u7	Mr. Chairman. The summit between Turkey and the European Union on 29 November is aimed at reaching agreement on the EU-Turkey Action Plan on Migration. The letter sent to the Chamber by the Foreign Minister yesterday states that the summit will discuss cooperation with Turkey. "Cooperation," Chairman. Firstly, to prevent migration and secondly, to prevent the reception of refugees in Turkey. There is no question of equal cooperation between Turkey and Europe in the eyes of the PVV. Turkey is using perhaps I should say 'abuse' of the flow of refugees in order to get out better itself. This is not a question of cooperation at all, but of blackmail. Turkey is not a poor country. Turkey is now demanding EUR 3 billion from the European Union, of which the Netherlands should cough up EUR 117 million. Furthermore, Turkey is demanding visa liberalisation for Turkish citizens. Turkey also wants a more energetic commitment on our part to Turkey's accession to the European Union and resettlement in the European Union of refugees who are already in Turkey. These are all things the PVV says: this should not happen. On the issue of resettlement in the EU of refugees in Turkey, I ask the Prime Minister if he can also tell us how many refugees Turkey says should be. Because I haven't been able to read that yet. On the issue of the EUR 3 billion to be put on the table by the countries of the EU, including the Netherlands, I have two questions following the letter we received this evening from the Foreign Minister. This letter concerns the Commission's decision to set up a Refugee Facility for Turkey, i.e. the EUR 3 billion. At the end of that letter, I read that the Foreign Minister, on behalf of the Netherlands, lays down two conditions. The first condition is that consent to this facility depends on embedding in a package of measures in which Turkey commits itself to concrete measures to substantially reduce the influx of asylum seekers to Europe. So it's not about stopping, it's about reducing. My question to the Prime Minister is what is the guarantee on which we can derive the confidence that Turkey will respect all this properly. The second condition set out in this letter from the Minister for Foreign Affairs is that it is ensured that all Member States contribute on the basis of the GNI key for regular EU payments. "All" Member States. My question to the Prime Minister is what the Dutch position will be if one or more Member States fail to do so. The PVV believes that we should not be blackmailed by Turkey. I told you, Turkey is not a poor country. It still has very good growth rates and it is the 21st place of the world ranking for gross national product. In 2014, the Turkish GDP was 820 billion dollars and the cost of receiving refugees to date is less than 1%. So Turkey should be able to carry it all on its own. It is absurd that this country is now asking us another 3 billion to stop refugees. We call on the Prime Minister not to be blackmailed and not to be blackmailed and not to give Erdogan a penny of Dutch taxpayers' money. We also do not want visa liberalisation; this Turkish culture does not fit in with European culture. Moreover, the country is slipping further and further; for the sake of short, I refer to what previous speakers have already said about this. As far as PVV is concerned, the only correct solution to the problem is: close borders.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u8	Mr. Chairman. Taking down a Russian fighter plane that would or would not have violated Turkish airspace has made the debate with the Prime Minister even more relevant this evening. Of course, the EU-Turkey Summit is primarily about the issue of refugees, but I assume that this incident will also be explicitly discussed at the summit. With this last escalation in mind, the cabinet's letter is a bit disappointing, because it does not mention this incident. Hence the question to the Prime Minister how he assesses the taking down of the Russian plane by Turkey. Apart from the question of whether Russia has violated Turkish airspace, Turkey is, of course, playing a very questionable role in relation to Syria. It has to be said that Turkey has violated Greek airspace many times. In recent years, this has not led to the destruction of Turkish aircraft. This action is rather dubious. Is the Prime Minister, like my group, concerned that questionable action by Turkey could even lead to recourse to Article 4 or 5 of the NATO Charter? My group does not feel that way. I'd like to hear the Prime Minister's reaction. Then I would like to take a moment to consider the problem of refugees themselves. Of course, we spoke with the Prime Minister during the previous debate about the phrase're-energizing the process of accession'. At that time, my motion was adopted in order not to link the accession process and the reception of refugees. I ask the Prime Minister to respond when he talks with Turkey next weekend. The accession criteria must not be affected in any way. At the moment there can be no question of a Turkish reward with free travel to Europe. Can the Prime Minister confirm that? Finally, my group does not read back on the content of the 3 billion financial package that the European Union intends to transfer to Turkey. There is no agreement on the amount, although it is already mentioned in the press that the Netherlands will contribute some 117 million. I'd like to hear from the Prime Minister if this amount is right. The Christian Union would like to see some of this amount reserved for NGOs active in the reception of refugees in Turkey. Amnesty International reports on human rights violations by Turkey. I ask the cabinet to allow part of the 117 million we should be paying to go through the Dutch Relief Alliance in order to alleviate the humanitarian need in Turkey. I'd like to hear a commitment from the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u9	Mr. Chairman. According to the President of the European Commission, Tusk, the summit will have two goals next Sunday. Firstly, giving new energy to the relationship between the European Union and Turkey and secondly, slowing down the flow of migration to Europe. I compare it with what you often hear in the Netherlands: "full is full" and "azc away with it." It is good to reflect on the situation in Turkey at the moment. For many refugees, Turkey is the first to receive the horrors that are currently taking place in the Middle East. More than 2 million refugees are currently in Turkey. This is the highest number in the world. The Turkish Government has spent more than 7 billion of its own resources. Neither Turkey nor the European Union can solve the refugee crisis alone. Turkey needs the European Union and the European Union needs Turkey. After a period of playing hide-and-seek, the realization has finally come out of the corner. It is now time for action, time to work together, time to put into practice the agreements on paper. We welcome the provisional deal, in which both sides show a will to find a solution. We do not want parties trying to take their spoils over the backs of people in need. The priority must be to take care of people in need. The European Union must also contribute to this, because this is an international problem. Money alone doesn't solve the problem. We must not only work for the reception of refugees in the region, but also ourselves to relieve the burden on the countries of the region, generously. We therefore call for even more intensive cooperation with the other countries in the region, such as Lebanon and Jordan, which can play a relevant role in resolving this problem. I would like to hear a response from the Prime Minister on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u10	Mr. Chairman. The SGP noted with interest the action plan on migration between the EU and Turkey. Due to its geographical location, Turkey is one of the key countries in the area of refugee reception. Given the large influx of refugees through Turkey to Europe, ongoing EU-Turkey consultations are inevitable. By improving structural reception in the region and curbing irregular migration, the EU is prepared to provide Turkey with political and financial support, but how does the EU assess whether the funds flowing to Turkey for this purpose are actually being spent in a targeted way? Will the Prime Minister also draw attention to Christians in regional refugee camps at the summit in order to better protect them from discrimination and violence by Muslims? There are some very sad reports about this. The SGP supports the migration action plan to combat irregular migration through co-ordinated cooperation. We support the Dutch commitment to ensure that the costs of migration policy are borne as much as possible by EU funds. At the same time, we are concerned. The necessary cooperation with Turkey on migration issues should not lead to far-reaching political and financial-economic integration of that country into the EU. The SGP explicitly opposes the visa liberalisation process and the Dutch consent to Turkey's renewed membership perspective. Turkey is far too far removed from other European countries, we must be sober, without, by the way, judging them by their cultural, political and economic value. The country can be called democratic, certainly, but not in the Western sense of the word. Opposition is increasingly sabotaged, freedom of the press is restricted and so on. Moreover, Turkey is currently making very dubious use of its regional key position. The country places very high demands on the EU in return for closing borders and cooperating in a European solution to migration policy. With all due respect for the autonomous state of Turkey, this really reminded me a bit of the hustling of an oriental bazaar: asking for a price, prickling and the like. You can also use unfriendly words like "blackmail" or "hostage." I'd avoid it, but I'd like to keep the image of the Eastern bazaar intact. While Turkey is trying to make a huge profit over the back of refugees, we have values of solidarity in Europe. Is this course of action not the strongest possible signal that Turkey does not fit within the EU in this form? Are negotiations with Turkey now and later conducted under EU conditions? I'd like a response from the Prime Minister. As far as the SGP is concerned, the Netherlands continues to speak to Turkey with two words: aid where necessary, yes, but accession, no. Is the Prime Minister prepared to take these signals to Brussels and pass them on? Finally. The shooting down of the Russian fighter plane by Turkey adds a new dimension to the complex struggle on the Turkish border with Syria. There is a need for extreme caution and restraint on the part of NATO members. Will the Prime Minister address Turkey? Will he insist that Turkey continue to commit itself to common goals in the fight against ISIS? We also have contradictory reports on this subject, and we should agree on this common objective. In our view, this is one of the essential ways of curbing the flow of migration.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u11	Mr. Chairman. In 2015, more than 580,000 refugees came to Europe on the so-called Turkey route. That is a tenfold increase compared to the year before. Next Sunday, Turkey and the European Heads of Government will meet in order to arrive at a joint package to curb this flow of migration. The VVD supports cooperation with Turkey. We need other countries, especially Turkey, to stop the flow to Europe and the Netherlands. This also means working with countries that we may appreciate as a holiday destination, but not with regard to the rule of law, human rights or democracy. However, this cannot be unbiased. Europe must not just be the questioning party. As far as the VVD is concerned, cooperation with other countries is not just about keeping roots, but also about using the stick when needed. We discussed the Turkey deal in this Chamber earlier. At that time, the cabinet and the Chamber clearly stated, inter alia through Mr Voordewind's motion, that the criteria for visas and liberalisation and the Copenhagen criteria for accession should not be applied. It's still standing up. The very critical report on Turkey's progress towards accession shows that the renewed energy will have to come mainly from Turkey itself. The tricky thing about this debate is that we do not yet know exactly what is going on Sunday. Negotiations are still under way both in Europe and with Turkey as we speak. Can the Prime Minister indicate where we are now and what, as far as we know, is on the table? Can he also indicate the position of the other Member States in this regard? What we do know is that at least we are talking about money for Turkey. We have just received the letter on this subject. Do I understand that the cabinet's commitment is to reduce the contribution of the Netherlands to the detriment of the EU budget and that all Member States are actually setting the bar? It is essential for the VVD that there can be no blank cheque. For what, I'll tell you what. Quid pro quo. No cure, no pay. Turkey must deliver to be eligible for money. As far as the VVD is concerned, for example, you work with a kind of system of tranches. My question to the Prime Minister is whether he shares that. The same is certainly true of resettlement. As far as we are concerned, this can only be discussed when Turkey has actually stopped the flow of migration and we can send refugees back to Turkey, in accordance with the cabinet letter of 8 September. Otherwise, we will de facto create two migratory flows, and that is exactly the wrong route. Does the Prime Minister share this? It could well be that the Prime Minister should immediately state that only political intentions will be on the table on Sunday and that the specific impact of plans on money and resettlement will follow. The VVD has already indicated what the basic principles should be: now cure, no pay, conditional. However, we ask the Prime Minister to involve the Chamber intensively in the further development of the plans. I'm rounding up. The migration crisis is one of the biggest crises of recent years. We need to manage and reduce the current flow, and we need to work on structural solutions with full energy. Unfortunately, the issue of migration will not be on the table after the deal with Turkey. However, on the basis of the right conditions, it can be an important step. Mr President, I should like to stick to this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u12	The spokesperson of the VVD rightly asked what the other countries want, but we really want to know what the VVD Group wants. So far it has been against opening new chapters in negotiations with Turkey. There is a progress report that I referred to as a deterioration report, because the European Commission itself says that it is worse in Turkey on crucial chapters than it was a year ago. Is it possible for the VVD to discuss the possibility of a deal, as it says, in which Turkey is given the accession process, to open up a number of chapters again and thus to move one step closer to joining the EU?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u13	Let us be very clear and clear that the VVD does not want to interfere with the accession criteria, the Copenhagen criteria. There's a spare on about eight headpieces. We all know that this has to do with the ratification of the Ankara Protocol. I share Mr Omtzig's analysis that it is not a progress report, but a decline report.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u14	There is a veto on eight chapters, but the VVD leaves open here the possibility of suddenly agreeing to the other about twenty chapters that still have to be opened. Although it is also a retrograde report in the eyes of the VVD Group, I hear the VVD spokesperson say that he will agree if the Prime Minister agrees to the opening of new negotiations with Turkey.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u15	No, Mr Omtzigt misunderstood that. We have already had a wide-ranging debate on this subject. I indicated that we supported the Voordewind motion. The criteria for Turkey's possible accession to the European Union are not being questioned. Let that be clear and clear. That's not gonna happen. It doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u16	The VVD says: no cure, no pay; the Member States must deliver. They are all understandable, but also a little soft conditions. The letter from the cabinet an hour ago actually says: we prefer a different relationship between the Commission's contribution and that of the Member States, but if this is the case, we agree with it. It also says: we want the other Member States to contribute. How is the VVD going to make sure that the cabinet gets real results on Sunday? Is it acceptable to the VVD if it doesn't?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u17	I think we're discussing the stakes now. The VVD sees this bet as conditional: for what hears. We can imagine that you will not transfer that 3 billion at once, but in instalments and that you will see whether Turkey is actually delivering. This is to reduce the influx it began with, the tenfold increase in influx through Turkey towards Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u18	The VVD has had a tendency in the past to work hard in the House of Representatives on certain conditions that must be met and hard limits that are set. The Prime Minister or any other member of the cabinet then goes to Europe, comes back and says, as the Prime Minister says in this case: I have not been able to increase the amount of the Commission and I have not yet succeeded in getting the Member States to deliver. Then the VVD says again: well, we actually like it that way?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u19	No, let it be clear and clear: the VVD does not want 3 billion to be transferred to Turkey at once, but that this is done in instalments and that we first check whether delivery is actually being made. I await the Prime Minister's response to this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u20	Mr. Chairman. Next Sunday, the leaders of the EU and those of Turkey will meet to discuss migration further. We have already discussed the EU-Turkey migration agreements in the Chamber on a number of occasions. These agreements are urgently needed because people are still driving the dangerous journey across the Aegean Sea. Because people use their last savings to be brought to the EU by smugglers at usury prices. Because people wade through rivers in the Balkans. Because people fleeing violence in Syria no longer have a perspective in their home country, but lack that perspective and protection in the neighbouring countries of Syria where they have taken refuge. In yesterday's letter, the government refers to last month's EU-Turkey Action Plan on Migration. This is primarily about improving the reception of refugees in Turkey. It is a good thing that the Commission is releasing money for this and that the government has also promised money. I would like to repeat the question that my colleague, Mr Kuik, asked two weeks ago: what aid has the Netherlands actually promised and what aid has other countries promised? Prangender is the question of how much money has actually been transferred, because the paper is patient and the promises are beautiful, but it really comes down to deeds. Butter on the fish. The cabinet also writes, in the letter we have just received, that it is important that all Member States make a proportionate contribution. If there is a willingness to do so, and if there is a willingness to do so, I am asking, as most of my fellow Members have just asked. The people who are in Turkish shelter camps have been there for years. A long stay without perspective, without decent health care, without adequate education, without opportunities to earn a living and without protection makes people choose to flee further as long as there is no vision of peace in their home country. By the way, most refugees in Turkey are in the cities. The same problems arise, with lack of care, training, job opportunities and protection. This also affects access to facilities for the local population. So it's a good reason to actually deliver now. My question to the cabinet is how it is going to take shape. Which organisations or bodies are going to be involved in this? How will the EU use these resources? How are projects selected? In the letter that has just been received, a little tip from the shutter has been conned about this. In addition to improving reception, Sunday will also have to cover the management of asylum, migration, visas and border systems, and the improvement of the legal status of refugees in Turkey. What is the situation with regard to trafficking in human beings? How is cooperation between the EU and Turkey going? What about the launch of several hotspots after which refugees who deserve protection, who can also be given protection in the EU? Are these subjects on the agenda, too? Will all Member States commit to this? What expectations does the cabinet have about resettlement, the distribution of refugees from these hotspots? I can be brief about Turkey's accelerated visa liberalisation and the renewed energy for the accession process. The criteria are there and there is no question of that. Moreover, in the light of the Commission's progress report on Turkey of 10 November last, we wholeheartedly support the government's commitment to opening chapters 23 and 24 on the rule of law, because reforms in these areas are urgently needed, for Turkey but also for improving the protection of refugees. In this way, these refugees and migrants can be given perspective in Turkey. Now all hands on deck, without any obligation on the part of the EU Member States or Turkey.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u21	Does Mrs Maij agree with me that if you want to contain an illegal migratory flow, there must be a legal flow of migration of some magnitude and a more generous resettlement policy must also be implemented?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u22	I have also talked about the hotspots and the way in which they need to be dealt with. It is important that these initiatives are now clearly defined. From the hotspots there is, of course, the possibility for people who need protection to get that protection in the EU.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u23	Does that also mean that Mrs Maij agrees with me that a proper, regulated procedure, for example through the UNHCR, should be aimed at re-establishing a significant number of people? I do not know exactly what its status is, but I have heard that the Dutch Government would be prepared to take in 500 people a year. That's three times nothing. Does Mrs Maij agree with me that this should be more generous?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u24	I think that 500 people have been government policies for 20 years. This does not therefore apply to the redistribution and resettlement of this group. I have just asked the Prime Minister a question about this: how is this going to take shape?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u25	Mrs Maij was just talking about opening chapters 23 and 24. They are about the fundamental position of people and human rights, but Human Rights Watch says that Turkey has refused Syrian refugees at the border. That is a violation of the fundamental right to asylum. Does the PvdA agree with D66 that you cannot agree to an agreement between the European Union and Turkey?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u26	I have to think for a moment, because I have also made it clear that it is important to talk about improving the rights, position and protection of refugees and migrants in Turkey. It is precisely by opening the chapters on the rule of law that you are talking to Turkey about improving the rule of law, the legal status and the issues Mr Verhoeven is talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u27	That's what we're all warmed up for. Opening chapters 23 and 24 and talking about the very broad human rights situation in Turkey is, of course, quite different from the acute refusal of Syrian refugees at the border. Does Mrs Maij agree with me that the European Union cannot just conclude an agreement with Turkey when these refugees are simply refused? I want to make it a little sharper than opening the chapters.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u28	Yes, but you yourself were just talking about opening the chapters and that is why I referred to them. It is very clear about the legal status of refugees, and that also means that people should at least go into that procedure when they knock on the door and ask for asylum, just as we do.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u29	Does Mrs Maij agree that Turkey should sign the entire Refugee Convention?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u30	I know that at present Turkey only accepts refugees from Europe in its own legal system and gives people from other parts of the world some sort of temporary status. That is exactly the point I referred to when it comes to improving the status of refugees.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u31	Then I assume that Mrs Maij will also give that to the Prime Minister to discuss with Turkey at the summit next Sunday.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u32	I think so. I don't know if you want to hear another answer, because you're running away now. It is really important to improve the legal status of refugees and that therefore means the legal status of migrants who, according to Turkey, do not come from the countries with a right to asylum. Only those from the countries of Europe are eligible, but they are also the countries around Turkey.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u33	This has put an end to the first term of office. The Prime Minister has indicated that he can respond directly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u34	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to address the questions on the action plan and funding and then the questions and comments on the accession negotiations, the capita selecta on Lebanon and Jordan, the Human Rights Watch report to which Mr Verhoeven referred and the Russian fighter plane. That seems to me to be the most logical approach, because with that I can answer all the questions. The action plan itself has been asked, among other things, who has given the mandate to do so. On 23 September the European Council asked the Commission to draw up a plan for strengthening cooperation with Turkey. This plan was published on 14 October and presented to the European Council on 15 October. As usual, the Chamber has been informed both in advance and afterwards. I have also argued before that the Commission has been asked at each of the previous informal and formal European Councils to work with Turkey to address the migration problem. The question has been asked as to where this mandate has been given, in so far as the Commission accepts, of course, contracts, because this is not the case. However, an urgent need has been expressed by the European Council. The question is relevant what the hardness of these agreements is when agreements can be made with the Turks. If it all succeeds, Turkey will commit itself through the action plan to ensure at the same time that the reception of refugees in the region is improved while at the same time reducing irregular migration from Turkey to Europe. Turkey is already doing a great deal about this. They have already lost some EUR 6 to 7 billion to the reception of over 2 million refugees. The idea of the fund of 3 billion is also to improve this reception system in a structural way and to ensure that more structural reception is possible, as described in the letter of 8 September. I think the Turks are able to reduce the influx. We also see the numbers falling in recent times. So Turkey is capable of controlling and controlling that. The aim now is to improve cooperation with them through the action plan in the fight against trafficking in human beings and for better border control. There are many agreements in the Action Plan which further reduce the numbers. I therefore see that cooperation between the European Union and Turkey is important in order to achieve these common goals. This also includes, and that fits in with the cabinet plan of 8 September, that if it succeeds in reaching final claims at some point, you will look at forms of resettlement. Moreover, there is no specific proposal on the table, as some of the Members have rightly said. However, we are told that the talks with Turkey and the Commission talk about the possibility of a resettlement programme. We described this in our letter of 8 September with the beta term "overpressure valve." In these plans there is thus also such a type of pressure relief valve. For this, it is important that the existing asylum influx is contained. The Chamber is aware of the letter of 8 September in which the cabinet indicated that it would eventually look for forms of structural reception in all regions from which large groups of refugees come. This will make it possible to return people on the basis of the safe third country criterion. That is also important because it can break the business model of the smugglers. So I can very well imagine that you will eventually continue to talk about such a resettlement programme. It is, of course, also important that a number of members of the Chamber report that the current inflow is going to dry up via the dangerous land or sea route. In the end, you can't have two routes, because then people come in through resettlement and in the classic way. In other words, it is about resettlement, ultimately of smaller numbers than we are getting through the existing influx. It comes instead of the existing influx and not on top of that influx, because then you have nothing. Then you've got a lot, but not what we're looking for. In the end, the goal of everything we do here is to contain the influx of refugees into Europe, so that it falls significantly. The second thing we want is to break the business model of the smugglers. The third thing we want to achieve, which will not succeed next Sunday, is the government's view of a permanent relocation mechanism to break asylum shopping in Europe. That is why Turkey must ensure that people are protected from the dangerous voyage by sea. It also includes the fact that if asylum seekers still arrive in Europe via the Turkey route, you should be able to have them taken back by Turkey. This applies both to the influx in Greece and to people who would eventually emerge in the Netherlands. It is important that Turkey delivers there. We will soon have three instruments: the instrument of reducing and then reducing as much as possible to zero the influx of refugees from Turkey to Europe. On the other hand, Europe's willingness to make a significant financial contribution to improving reception capacity in Turkey. That's one. That's the $3 billion I'll get back to. A number of questions have been asked. The second is the willingness, if the first succeeds, to use such a resolution instrument.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u35	I understand the Prime Minister's approach. He wants to see the illegal flow decline so he can talk about resettlement. However, there is also the risk of the chicken or egg problem. We want a number of things from Turkey. In any case, we want the Syrian border to be reopened, if only to properly implement international conventions. I just think we can agree on that. However, this means that Turkey's influx is increasing. We also want people not to get into crummy boats. This also means that, if you do not want Turkey to be left entirely with the issue of even more refugees, a significant resettlement programme would be put in place. Does the Prime Minister agree with me that at least that perspective of a substantial, generous resettlement programme should be realised and that this should be included in the negotiations in a certain way?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u36	I choose my own words for that. Mr Grashoff uses many adjectives in which I almost hear the numbers ringing through. If I leave out those adjectives, I think we'll say the same thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u37	The Prime Minister is right that the discussion should not be about whether it should be exactly number X or number Y. However, if we really want to understand each other here, we do need those adjectives. It does matter whether we stick to the old standing policy agreement that we want to accommodate up to 500 people a year. The Prime Minister will agree with me that there will have to be significant deviations from these figures if it is to have anything at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u38	It is, of course, about larger numbers; I realize that. I am not going to put numbers on that right now, but I now understand what Mr Grashoff means. That is, of course, another programme.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u39	That's kind of my point, too. If there is no concrete plan on the table for next Sunday, I think the Prime Minister said that it is not possible to say what the Dutch commitment will be. That was one of the questions I asked. In fact, the Prime Minister says nothing more than that they are going to be higher numbers. He is now refusing to give an impetus to mentioning some, but the Turks may ask for some. They want to know, of course, whether we are prepared to do more.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u40	I don't have that impression. I think it is important that we make the political agreement on Sunday, in particular, that we are prepared, as part of a successful programme, to look at the resettlement instrument as well. Given the tens of thousands of refugees entering the Netherlands this year, in much larger numbers than last year and the year before, we are, of course, prepared to look at the resettlement instrument, if it would reduce the influx. That is much more attractive than the current high influx. We must be sure that this influx will not happen, otherwise we will have the resettlement instrument on top of that influx, and then we will be completely in the lurch.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u41	So the Prime Minister says: we are not being held hostage by a discussion about the chicken or egg, as Mr Grashoff described, where one does not move and the other does not want to move. That's not gonna happen. The focus is on higher resettlement rates, so as to reduce the large flow of refugees. That is the commitment of the Netherlands. Does the Prime Minister expect this to be the commitment of the other Member States?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u42	Everyone agrees that the influx of refugees cannot continue at this level. We will therefore have to take action. The most obvious measure is to make agreements with Turkey in order to reduce the influx of refugees. I would point out that the refugees who are now coming from Turkey largely did not flee Syria from bombs and grenades, but were already in Turkey, although in difficult circumstances, but not in mortal danger. It is therefore very important that we improve the conditions there. We want to make good agreements with the Turks so that the people can stay there. In this way, the influx decreases significantly. Of course, there are other currents that are coming to Europe; a large stream is coming across the Western Balkans and causing the great problems we now know. If the resettlement instrument turns out to be successful in our letter of 8 September, we are using the terrible term 'overpressure valve', but it is appropriate in this context, then it goes without saying that we are looking at how we can alleviate the pressure in the camps.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u43	The Prime Minister states that he is prepared to meet the 3 billion package on conditions. Has he taken note of the European Court of Auditors' report on accession aid to Turkey? In that report, the Court notes that the Council and Commission strategy papers do not sufficiently focus EU support on achievable objectives. Those objectives were not sufficiently specific, so it was not possible to evaluate them at all. Does the government intend to set clear objectives in the agreements with the Turks before any instalments of aid to Turkey will be paid out? This will prevent us from saying in a few years' time: Turkey has received the money, we have had to deal with a double power and nothing has changed at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u44	This brings me to the question of D66, GroenLinks and SGP, among others, how we will ensure that the funds are properly spent. That question was asked in different variations in the first term. Let me start by saying that these funds are not intended for Turkey's accession to the European Union. That's a separate flow of money. I say this to Mr Omtzigt, who knows this too. These funds are intended for the reception of refugees in Turkey, both for humanitarian matters and for improving living conditions. This is all in line with the cabinet letter of 8 September. The Commission will monitor this and this is important for the prioritisation and allocation of resources. The Commission is also ultimately responsible for spending. The proposed facility is managed jointly by the Commission and the Member States. Turkey has an advisory role, especially as regards the proper coordination of aid on the ground. The UNHCR, as a partner in the field of migration, will play an important role in cooperation between Turkey, the EU and UNHCR. This cooperation is important for reception on the ground. I think it is important to consult these experts, but they do not play a direct role in deciding on the use of funds from the facility. That's what we have now. This is of course very fresh, because it's all from the last days and week. This will therefore have to be further developed. I very much agree with all those in the Chamber who say that the money should be spent in a useful way. It should not go to the government in Ankara, but to the objective of strengthening living conditions in reception locations.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u45	Do I now understand the Prime Minister in the sense that the 3 billion will not be transferred to Erdogan's bank account, Ankara, but that the money will go to UNHCR, to the UN refugee organisation? A suggestion could also be to transfer it to private organisations that are currently operating there. Do I understand the Prime Minister correctly?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u46	It does not go to Erdogan's account, nor does it go to the government's account in Ankara. The details of what is going on are yet to be worked out, including the way in which the Commission manages the pot together with the Member States. This brings me to Mr Azmani's tranche ring. Others have also said things about this. It all needs to be further worked out, but it's obvious. The Facility is part of a broader package of measures in which Turkey also commits itself to concrete measures. This calls for a good phasing, a good order; call this tranche ring. We will certainly discuss how this is going to be done in practice in the near future. I think what I hear about it from the Chamber is obvious and very close to what is being thought of at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u47	That would at least reassure my group, because I know that this is a problem at the moment. Many refugees are being received, especially at the Syrian border. They are being taken care of by Turkey itself. UNHCR has nothing to say there. Turkey coordinates and directs those camps. This would really be a turnaround. I really hope that it will be possible to negotiate with the Turks that UNHCR will be given the leading role in the reception, because we know that the protection of the rights of refugees is better guaranteed through UNHCR than through the Turkish Government.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u48	UNHCR is a partner. It is not that we do everything through UNHCR, by definition. That's a partner we consult. We can now, as one of the 28 Member States, fill out in detail exactly how the money flows are going to run. We can also say that we agree in terms of direction, and we will certainly come back to this when this is further developed. I do not think we are different in that, just to use modern socialist jargon, sorry, sociologist jargon "how do you fit in" for a moment. We're not different in this. The Socialists are not even here tonight, only the Social Democrats are here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u49	Well, some of the slips are fun.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u50	It is a question of who Mr Grashoff is referring to.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u51	I'm gonna come over to the steering model anyway. Shortly before this meeting we received a letter in which no mention was made of the position of UNHCR. I noticed that when I read that letter quickly. It does mention the fact that the money is not deposited in Erdogan's account, but that the European Union continues to be concerned with the use of its own money, with a consultative role for Turkey. The latter seems perfectly logical to me. I also see that a model is being chosen in which 28 Member States in the Commission will participate in deciding on the use of money. It'll scare the hell out of me. I see that the position of an important institution that knows how the world works on the ground and what to do is not secured, but I see that the position of 28 Member States, each with their own supporters, will look at where their dime is spent or not, is secured. Is the Prime Minister prepared to use a more effective and efficient steering model in the debate in Europe, i.e. at the summit, under the direction of the European Commission and with the involvement of UNHCR and not with 28 individual Member States?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u52	Again, UNHCR is an important advisor. It's not gonna go through UNHCR. They keep saying that, but that's not true. He does play an important role in the advisory function. The Commission also gave a first insight into what such a facility could look like, with a more intergovernmental approach being adopted. I get that on my own. That can happen very quickly, by the way. I think we should be careful here, too, not to micromanage, not to me, but not to us. We have to say it's important that that facility gets there soon. If this can be done quickly along the lines outlined by the Commission now, I would say: let us do so; that is efficient. If it turns out to be a lot of trouble, you're gonna have to look at it again. For us, of course, it is important that all Member States contribute. We'll bet on that. But the precise legal and financial implications will be discussed in Brussels over the next few days, at the meeting of ambassadors. I don't think that's gonna cut Sunday with the Turks in it, but I'm sure that's gonna come back later. For us, it is important that clear agreements are made on contributions per Member State. Then it helps if you start from the gross national income, from the bno. That is also the most objective form. To Mr Azmani, but also to others, I say that we are indeed talking even more about the financial implications and, of course, looking for more room in the EU budget. The first bid from the Commission is: there is no room. Anyway, if that space is there... those are all things that need to happen in the next few days. That is the normal work we always have between Member States and the Commission.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u53	At the risk of the Prime Minister calling me a micromanager, I would like to ask a question. He mentioned support for refugees in refugee camps. Of the approximately 2 million people who fled from Syria to Turkey, only 10% are in those camps. The rest live in cities and often lack access to care, jobs and education. I assume that this programme is also intended for this purpose. That's even more meso-than micro-management, if we call it that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u54	Absolutely, 100% sure. By the way, I don't blame anyone for micromanagement. I say that more to myself. When I read it, and I hear Mr Grashoff say that we are going to have 28 Member States there, I think: yes, he is right. So, basically, I'm telling myself more. If I point one finger at the room, I point four at myself. If such a facility would work eventually: fine. In reply to Mrs Maij, I say that this programme is intended for all refugees, not just in the camps. I totally agree with her on that. Last time we talked about these chapters too. It's a bit of a rerun of moves. The cabinet believes that the accession process has its own dynamics. This is based on a number of very clear and strict criteria. They must also be fulfilled. This means that the opening of chapters by the Council is always done on the basis of a screening by the Commission on the specific subject at hand. This is not related to the annual progress report, I must add. In fact, it gives an overall picture of a country's progress and the extent to which it fulfils its accession obligations. No decisions are taken on the opening of chapters on the basis of that reporting either. Those are separate trajectories. There are no Dutch blockades on chapters. There are eight chapters related to the Ankara Protocol. There's a collective blockade. There are no specific Dutch blockades on opening chapters. There is no need to ensure that we stop the Turks from complying with the conditions of the accession process. I notice this not only in the Netherlands, but also widely in the European Council. Turkey is a candidate country. That's a fact. With that Turkey, as we speak, has an accession perspective. That process knows its own dynamics. I just sketched that. All conditions must be met, strictly and fairly. That is the starting point. In other words, that doesn't really change anything. That's what we talked about last time. The same applies to visa liberalisation. There is, of course, a link with migration and border surveillance. We, too, as the European Union and the Netherlands, have an interest in ensuring that this visa liberalisation happens once, along all the conditions and criteria that have been laid down for it. This also means that taking over third-country nationals and all kinds of other matters will be much more flexible. But only after all the criteria have been met.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u55	The Prime Minister is really clear here, as in his letter: there is no question of changing the demands. I read yesterday's letter from the cabinet and I'd like to take a look back. Following the Turkish elections, a report was suddenly sent by the European Commission. That is what we discussed with the Foreign Minister. He said it was a procedural point, that it was a little weird. In my view, however, it raised a feeling in the sense of: we have to deal with the Turks very much and we should not overdo them, because we need them so badly for the refugees. Am I being too suspicious, or is the Prime Minister saying that he can really ensure that, at forthcoming summits, no report or news report will come out which is yet another indication of any broadening or an explanation of the Turks that is moving in the direction?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u56	Not with regard to those criteria. Look, it's clear that the Turks are linking. This link lies partly in the content of the visa liberalisation process. The Turks have a political link with the re-energising of the accession process. I have no objection to that, provided they do not mess with the criteria. That's what we agreed. Once again, that view is very broad, from the French, the Cypriots to the Dutch and many others. There's no discussion about that at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u57	Despite the pattern that has been shown over the past few months, the Minister says quite clearly here: the commitment of the Netherlands and of all the other Member States is very clear: there is no need to change it, no way. So I don't have to be afraid of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u58	Not to the criteria, certainly not. A few other questions have been raised, for example on cooperation with Lebanon and Jordan. They are also catching a lot of refugees at the moment. In addition to humanitarian aid, they deserve political support from the European Union. The Union will therefore have to start developing partnerships with these countries. Jordan has already indicated its commitment to a similar approach to the EU-Turkey Action Plan. It is important that, in all these cases, support for Syrian refugees should focus on self-reliance. As we all know, employment and education are crucial and essential for this, also in order to provide the Syrians with a perspective. The economic integration of refugees requires long-term agreements. Trade promotion is important. There must be an integrated approach combining development cooperation, diplomatic trail, humanitarian rail, security and trade. Then there's the report from Human Rights Watch on how Syrian refugees are no longer allowed to go through. I am familiar with the stories of refugees who would not have been let through, but it is not clear whether this is a structural practice. I must say that the Turkish authorities are denying this. The Turkish-Syrian border is indeed partly closed; only a limited number of border posts are still open. It is not easy for people, not even for non-refugees, to cross that border. Turkey tells us that the refugees are welcome and has so far been generous and welcoming towards the 2 million Syrian refugees. We will follow that carefully, but at the moment there are no indications that something is not right there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u59	I think this is a little weird. Human Rights Watch is not the first to be the best organization. She is sending a very detailed report with all kinds of interviewees, supported by the fact that they have spoken to those people. It is a litany of personal experiences of people who, under very harsh conditions, try to cross borders with smugglers and then return. That's not gonna fall out of the sky, is it? Isn't the Prime Minister a little too flexible here?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u60	No, I'm referring to my previous answer. I have nothing to add. Like I said, we're familiar with the stories. It is not clear to what extent there is a structural practice. There is denial from the Turkish authorities. If you look at what the Turks have done so far, there are 2 million Syrians walking around in Turkey, you can't say they're inhospitable.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u61	Of course, I have also wondered about the reports of Human Rights Watch. I would like to ask the Prime Minister to ask more and more intrusively about this on various sides in order to get those signals confirmed or denied. I'd like to ask him that question. The picture sketched is that until April of this year, the Turkish border was to a limited extent open and that many refugees have normally entered through border posts, but that this has not happened since then. That is exactly the point that this organisation is deeply concerned about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u62	Agreed. We will, and then we'll report on it. That's a good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u63	I might want one more step. When I ask about it, I'll find out.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u64	Again?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u65	I've asked about it before.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u66	It's not me, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u67	No, I wouldn't dare. But does the Prime Minister also find it incompatible with the conclusion of an agreement if it turns out that it does?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u68	That's a like-dan question. I find that complicated. I think we need to find out again first. We don't have any leads on that. We'll find out and report on it. But to connect the question with one then already, I find it very complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u69	As-dan questions are often also about principles.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u70	Yeah?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u71	Yes. Principles are important in this discussion. We have said very often with each other, including Chamberwide, the principle that human rights in Turkey are really a leading point in all contacts, especially in the negotiations that are currently taking place. That is why this debate is here. If it turns out that it is, the Prime Minister will report it to the Chamber; he has just promised it. But then there's a consequence to it, isn't there? Or is it conceivable for the Prime Minister to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u72	I find it complicated. We have no leads and no confirmation. Now I have to anticipate the possibility that it would be so: what we are going to find out further, as I have just promised, and how we are going to act on it. I find that a little complicated, because then I'm already accusing a country of what might not be necessary. Once again, Turkey is taking up 2 million Syrians. Then you can't say that Turkey doesn't do anything? Then I come to the results of relocation up to the moment. The problem with this is, of course, that in order to be able to relocate, you need hotspots. That's really complicated to do right now. The Netherlands said a little while ago, I assume that this is now in progress or is about to happen - 50 have to try to test the system. But they have to be there. The big problem, of course, is that they are not at all there in Greece and that they are working very difficult in Italy. I believe there's one on Lampedusa now. In any case, Italy is receiving much less refugees at the moment. The large number of refugees runs through Greece. If you ask me what I am doing all day now, it is at the summit of Sunday with Turkey. With Klaas Dijkhoff and with the countries with which we are in much contact, we are busy moving Greece to set up those hotspots. We'd like to help with that, too. We already do a lot with Frontex et cetera. We are willing to do much more, also financially, because they need to get there, including a very large reception capacity. I've already said that you should probably be able to catch up to maybe 100,000 people there. It's all not here. So, yeah, I could do with a reallocating, but those people aren't even there. That's the problem. We are going to see if these 50 are there at all, and that is going to be exciting, because everyone is currently just walking across the Western Balkans through Slovenia into Austria. They're not going to those hotspots because they're not there. That's actually the hard part. It's really the chicken and the egg. Finally, I would like to say a few words about the Russian fighter plane. Yesterday, that Russian fighter, as we know, was shot down by a rocket from the Turkish Air Force, because that Russian aircraft violated Turkish airspace. The Turkish Air Force said it gave ten warnings before the plane was brought down. It was shot down in Turkish airspace and then crashed in Syria. Turkey has not made an active request to the North Atlantic Council for support. That is why the Secretary-General of NATO, Rasmussen, subsequently confirmed that the Turkish reading of the events corresponds to the information given to the Secretary-General by other NATO counterparts. It also corresponds to our own Dutch information. There is therefore no reason to doubt the Turkish reading of the events. That is why we discussed this afternoon with the Foreign Minister that the Dutch intelligence and that of other NATO countries confirm what Turkey put forward yesterday in NATO. It has been confirmed by NATO's sg and that is why we are not in favour of a committee of inquiry.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u73	The Turks claim, among other things, that there have been ten warnings.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u74	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u75	There's also an American source who says the plane hit over Syria. That is a different lecture from that of the Turks themselves. Have these two cases been investigated? Has the Dutch Government seen evidence that ten warnings have been issued and that the missile hit the aircraft while it was flying over Turkey's territory?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u76	No. What I know is that the Turkish reading of the events corresponds to the information that the Secretary-General has also received from other NATO alliance members. It also corresponds to our own information. In addition, the aircraft was brought down in Turkish airspace and then crashed in Syria. That's what we know. I hear Mr Omtzig talking very suspiciously about the Turks, but that country is our NATO ally. All NATO members and the security services say that this message is correct and that is confirmed by the sg of NATO. The Netherlands also confirms it and perhaps it is right. Why don't we just take that now?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u77	Such an incident can have quite geopolitical consequences. That is why I would like to ask whether these two details are correct. The first detail is that it would have been warned ten times. Has that been checked? I'm asking because there's no evidence of that yet. The second detail is where the plane was shot. Is NATO able to verify that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u78	It was knocked down over Turkish territory and then crashed into Syria. This is confirmed by the NATO allies and by our own information. I don't know if we can check that point of those ten warnings, but we do know where the plane was hit and where it crashed. This is confirmed by all this information.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u79	I would ask the Prime Minister to check that with his minister and then come back to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u80	On those ten warnings?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u81	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u82	But you have already discussed this in detail with the Foreign Minister this afternoon, haven't you? Does it make sense to do it again?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u83	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u84	Then I'd like to check it out. You didn't ask Koenders this afternoon?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u85	I wasn't there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u86	Okay. I'm gonna check what happened in the debate this afternoon. Probably already it's been treated there and then we don't have to double-do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u87	I read tonight that the Turkish Prime Minister is linking the Russians' attacks on the Turkmen in Syria. That might put the attack in a different light, namely that the Turks were out to stop the Russians from attacking the Turkmen in Syria. How does the Prime Minister feel about that? So it is a point that the Turkish Prime Minister himself raised this evening.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u88	I know that what the Turks have said is confirmed by the information received from the Secretary-General of the other NATO alliance members. That also corresponds to our own Dutch information. That information says that the aircraft was hit over Turkish territory and then crashed in Syria. That's all I know; I wasn't there. At least this is what all the sources confirm.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u89	According to the latest reports, the Turkish Prime Minister says that Turkey will continue to protect its brothers the Turkmen in Syria. He now suddenly establishes a link between taking down the Russian MiG and protecting the Turkmen in Syria. That seems to me to be a very remarkable new fact. I'd like to hear the Prime Minister's reaction to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u90	I am not going to respond to every statement made by the Turkish Prime Minister, Davutoglu. The question was what happened to the Turkish plane. As I have just said to Mr Omtzigt, I do not know whether the talk of the Turks is so detailed that it is also about the ten warnings. We'll check; maybe that's already been promised this afternoon, we'll check it out. But in itself, the talk of the Turks is confirmed by all NATO intelligence. And I say: shall we assume that this is true; Turkey is a NATO ally. If Turkey says that and the intelligence confirms it, then maybe it's just true. I believe I have answered all the questions. And I note that Mr Verhoeven is still looking cheerful.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u91	"He's still watching," I hear him say... Thank you. This has put an end to the government's first term. I can see from Mr Verhoeven's face, where everything can be read out tonight, that there is a need for a second term. There is a two-minute speaking time, including the reading of motions for resolutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u92	Mr. Chairman. My motions are always brief and concise. That means I'm gonna have more time for other things. The clock is not running either; that is very reassuring. Thank you to the Prime Minister for replying. There were a number of nice and also special passages in the letter which was sent 45 minutes before the debate. The cabinet writes: we want to see the money from the other Member States and we also believe that the relationship between the money from the Member States and the Commission can be different, but we also agree with the fact if it does not succeed. That seems to me to be a very smooth negotiating position. I can't wait to see what comes out of it. The Minister is much clearer about non-marketing with the accession requirements. I'm very happy about that. The Prime Minister said it before, but then things happened again that made us doubt. Now, however, we can see that it is not going to be affected. That's profit. Then there is the issue of human rights and, in particular, the refusal of refugees. I have heard the Prime Minister's commitment to GroenLinks. I get that, too. I have given it some thought, which is why I may have looked a little surprised, but I would like to table a motion, because I think that is important. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the EU intends to conclude an agreement with Turkey on the reception of refugees;]] [[Whereas human rights organisations report that Turkey refuses Syrian refugees at the border and thereby violates the non-refoulement principle;]] [[calls on the Government, the establishment of safeguards against the return of refugees and guarantees against human rights violations in border control as conditions for the conclusion of an agreement with Turkey,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Verhoeven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1055]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u93	Mr. Chairman. I have already said in the first term that we think it is positive that we are talking and trying to reach an agreement in a good way. The position of refugees in Turkey and the improvement of conditions must be at the heart of this. In principle, we can also get out of our way with the answer around sending the money, not to Erdogan's bank account but to the people for whom it is really necessary. I have heard the Prime Minister's commitment that UNHCR is an important advisor in this. I think I'm quoting him so well, otherwise I'll hear it during his second term. This seems to us to be very important for the proper management of these resources. Finally, it is good to hear that there is no blackmail with any conditions in relation to accession, not even with regard to the discussion on visas. However, my group is in principle in favour of resolving this visa issue, but this must be done within the rules of the game. I would like to conclude, but not until I have supported my first-term plea on an important point; this is about the resettlement programme. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Netherlands is committed to a joint resettlement programme within the EU;]] [[noting that resettlement is on the agenda for the forthcoming EU-Turkey Summit;]] [[Whereas a resettlement programme can provide vulnerable refugees, who cannot be adequately received in Turkey, with a legal and safe way to enter the EU;]] [[Whereas an ambitious resettlement programme could be an alternative to illegal migration;]] [[calls on the Government to commit itself to including an ambitious resettlement programme in the Action Plan on Migration of Turkey and the EU,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grashoff. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1056]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u94	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Prime Minister for his clear answers. I have three things I would like to put to the Chamber. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the European Commission's progress report on Turkey on human rights, the functioning of the rule of law and freedom of expression shows a very marked deterioration;]] [[calls on the Government to vote against the opening of new chapters in the Turkish accession process and not to agree on them,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Omtzigt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1057]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u95	I would also like to see which parties in the Chamber take that view. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that there is a great deal of uncertainty as to the events surrounding the taking down of a Russian fighter plane by Turkey;]] [[noting that the Netherlands as a NATO partner of Turkey is entitled to complete and correct representation of the facts;]] [[calls on the Government to call in NATO for an investigation into the events of the defeated Russian fighter plane by Turkey,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Omtzigt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1058]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u96	If you want to draw conclusions from it, these matters must also be verified. There are American sources at the services there that told Reuters that they saw a missile hitting the plane over Syria's territory. If that kind of press agency reports it, there's a good reason to reconstruct how it went. It seems to me good to have warned a plane that was flying over another airspace for ten to seventeen seconds, with ten warnings for five minutes. The next motion, which I have tabled with Mr Voordewind, regulates a point that we have often raised, but which I have not mentioned in the first term. It is about the fact that a number of vulnerable minorities do not have access to aid in Turkey. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that minorities from Syria have more difficult access to assistance in Turkey;]] [[calls on the Government to commit itself to making specific agreements on the access of minorities to aid in Turkey,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Omtzigt and Mr Voordewind. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1059]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u97	Mr. Chairman. I believe that Turkey's accession to the EU and visa liberalisation are really being messed up at the moment. I have already tabled motions last time to ensure that this is not allowed. In the motions, the government was asked not to apply visa liberalisation and not to allow Turkey to join the EU. This was two weeks ago and I do not intend to retable these motions. It is clear to me that we are being messed up in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u98	Mr. Chairman. The Prime Minister wants to break the business model of human smugglers, curb the influx of happiness seekers to the Netherlands and break asylum shopping in Europe. He wants to do all this by giving gifts to Erdogan. Of course, the EUR 3 billion will not go directly to Erdogan's bank account, but he will benefit from it. The Prime Minister not only wants to give EUR 3 billion, but also facilitate a Turkentsunami by allowing visa-free travel from Turks to Europe. He wants to offer more perspective on Turkey's accession to the European Union. He also wants to resettle more refugees from Turkey in Europe. When I ask how much, I don't get an answer to that, but there is of course no answer. That's not gonna happen until later. They're all gifts that Erdogan doesn't deserve at all; on the contrary! It is not going to help to break the business model of smugglers, to stop the influx of asylum or to break asylum shopping, because despite these gifts, it is still more attractive for those asylum seekers to come to Europe than to stay in those refugee camps in Turkey. With the European Union's planned policy, which this Prime Minister apparently wants to join, people smugglers continue to continue, the influx of asylum seekers continues and asylum shopping continues. So it doesn't help anything. What does help is what the PVV says. The Netherlands simply needs to set up proper border control and we need to keep everyone who shouldn't be in here out of the door.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u99	Mr. Chairman. It is a good thing that Turkey is talking about better reception of refugees. I stress the word 'better' because I know that 80% of the refugees are not being received in the camps at the moment, but are being left to their fate, simply because Turkey has not signed the entire Refugee Treaty. Is the Prime Minister prepared to bring this to Turkey's attention, preferably jointly with the EU? If we are to encourage Turkey to receive refugees in a humane manner, Turkey must sign the Refugee Convention as soon as possible. In order not to leave the reception to the Turks, but above all to be carried out by independent experts, so that human rights and the rights of refugees are guaranteed, I come to the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that twelve Dutch development organisations have successfully collaborated in the Dutch Relief Alliance to provide rapid emergency relief in the event of acute disasters and have available EUR 120 million over a period of 3 years;]] [[Considering that the European Union is negotiating with Turkey on a common approach to refugee issues with a commitment of EUR 3 billion in support, while Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch have identified several human rights violations of refugees by Turkey;]] [[calls on the government, at the forthcoming summit on 29 November, to urge that financial support for tackling the refugee problem in Turkey should in any case be granted in part to NGOs, including for the Netherlands through the Dutch Relief Alliance,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Voordewind. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1060]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u100	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Prime Minister for the answers he has given in the first term, all the more so because he also places the priority on the issue of helping people in need. I would ask him to make a specific request at the summit to tackle human traffickers in Turkey harder. There is a real need for action. My second point concerns the involvement of Lebanon and Jordan. I'll make a motion on that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that an EU summit is being organised with Turkey;]] [[noting that countries such as Lebanon and Jordan also receive large numbers of refugees;]] [[Whereas a summit with Lebanon and Jordan can also contribute to curbing the flow of illegal migration to Europe;]] [[calls on the Government to commit itself at European level to organising a summit with Lebanon and Jordan, inter alia, to reach further agreements to address human traffickers and thereby to curb the illegal flow of migration to Europe,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1061]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u101	Mr. Chairman. First of all, thank you to the Prime Minister for answering our questions. It was clear and compact. I always admire his compactness. Usually the answer is also complete, except this time. The Prime Minister forgot one question. I asked for attention to be paid to the particular position of the Christian minority in camps, which is also less accepted by Muslim refugees. In the meantime, there is a motion by Mr Omtzigt and Mr Voordewind which is reasonably in line with that without mentioning the Christian minority. I would like to draw attention to this. I ask the Prime Minister to draw Turkey's attention to this and ask him to take action. Then I don't need to make a special motion for it, and that's a win again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u102	Mr. Chairman. I'll be brief. I'm not filing any motions. I don't do that much, so I don't do that much now. However, I would like to thank the Prime Minister for answering the questions. I'm happy with the tranche ring. I am also pleased that the issue of resettlement is only raised when the influx has been reduced in combination with the possibility of returning asylum seekers to safe third countries, which means that applications can be rejected in accordance with the letter of 8 September. Finally, I wish the Prime Minister a great deal of wisdom and success for the summit next Sunday.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u103	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his first answer. I would like to focus on two more questions that I raised in the first term. My first point concerns hotspots. The Prime Minister indicated that it was quite difficult to start relocation now, but the hotspots are of course also an initiative of the European Union itself. This means that not only a country such as Greece or Italy must work with it, but all 28 of us must work with it to set it up. I hope that the Netherlands will play a decisive role in this, not only in order to possibly relocate people from those hotspots, but also in order to shape those hotspots themselves. My second point concerns financial contributions. The Prime Minister has already said a number of things, including in the letter sent an hour before our debate, about the Dutch financial contribution. I have also explicitly asked him about the willingness of other countries. Does he have any idea what the other countries are currently willing to contribute? Will that indeed mean that these other countries are prepared to contribute financially to that initiative in the same way as the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u104	The Prime Minister has already stated that he can proceed immediately with the answers to the questions put and the response to the motions tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u105	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Maij's last point was about the 3 billion and contributions. An inventory was held in Valletta. My impression is that they are somewhat opposed, but everyone also understands that they have to contribute and that the GNI key makes sense. That's not a guarantee. It was an informal summit, so that will have to be further demonstrated, even tomorrow at the ambassadors' meeting. I cannot imagine that we will be negotiating on Sunday in front of Davutoglu, but then it will have to continue after Sunday. The Netherlands believes that everyone should contribute and that the GNI key is the best. Nor do we mind having more money from the European budget than the current 500 million. During the Valletta Summit, on behalf of the British, I had the honour to represent it; Cameron had the right to visit the Indian colleague and say that they also agree with that key. That's 400 million. We can agree; that is more than 100 million for us. However, that is, in the end, under the assumption that the other countries are doing the same. There is no security, but I do have the impression that it is moving in the right direction. We will have to wait and see. We also agree 100% on the hotspots. That is a joint responsibility. The Netherlands is really willing to help build the Greek hotspots, for example. Behind the scenes there is a lot of consultation going on to see how we can support the Greeks in developing not only that processing capacity, but also the reception, so the reception capacity. I think that you should think about very large numbers in order to ensure that this goes well in Greece. Then that relocation mechanism, that redistribution mechanism, can also work. I can inform Mr Omtzigt that, in any case, NATO has reported that Minister Koenders has confirmed the ten warning shots to the Chamber this afternoon. These are confirmed by NATO information, mentioned by Minister Koenders in the Chamber. Then I'll come to the motions. The motion in part No. I would like to advise against Mr Verhoeven's 1055. We're gonna figure it out, like I promised. However, I would not want to block a political agreement on this now, because then we will indeed be in that then. I understand the motion and see what the Chamber thinks about it, but I'm going to dissuade her for that reason. The motion in part No. Mr Grashoff's 1056 concerns the resettlement programme. All this needs to be worked out in the action plan. As I said, we are open to these resettlement arrangements under all kinds of conditions, including as part of the whole. To do so now, including those adjectives like "ambitious," I find premature. I refer to the first-term debate. I'm dissuading the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u106	The Prime Minister says it needs to be worked out in the programme, and that is exactly what this motion is asking for. Isn't she just policy support?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u107	We've talked about the meaning of adjectives before. Ambitiously, I can't do much with that. I think we should be careful that we don't shine that we're eager to resettle. We must radiate what we expect if the European Union is prepared to invest a lot of money in it. We understand that the Turks are a political link, but they must understand that we are sticking to all the criteria and other political processes that run with the Turks. We also have to say that we understand that it is important that we also think that it is important, and that is also the cabinet commitment that resettlement, if it all goes well, is part of it. To come up with a story now that we want an ambitious resettlement programme... Oh, we thought you wanted to reduce the flow of refugees, but you want an ambitious resettlement programme and that's another story. We have to be careful of that. That's the wrong signal. I get it. I think Mr Grashoff will eventually get his sentence, perhaps without that adjective. As it stands, however, it is really premature. Then I come to the motion on part No. 1057 by Mr Omtzigt. Referring to the detailed and, I must say, pleasant exchange of views between Mr Omtzigt and myself in the first term, I advise her. The same applies to the motion in part No. 1058. I have just mentioned once again what NATO views are with regard to the warning shots and so on. Anyway, I think we have talked about this in detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u108	As regards the motion in part No. I didn't really think 1058 was gonna do anything other than dissuade the Prime Minister. He does not want the independent investigation and has also been quite clear about what he bases himself on. I understand, though I still think it's necessary. The motion in part No. However, 1057 only calls for one thing: do not agree to accession negotiations now. What is the problem of considering them as support for policies? Why does it need to be dissuaded?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u109	Because the Netherlands is not in favour of stopping the accession process. We have not blocked any chapter except where we collectively did so under the Ankara Protocol. So it's not government policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u110	Does the Prime Minister therefore wish to keep open the possibility of agreeing to or agreeing to the opening of new chapters this weekend?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u111	Again, if there are no blockades on it. The Netherlands is not blocking anything, so it would be weird if we were to block now. Why would we do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u112	Proceed, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u113	In the motion in part No. 1059 calls for specific agreements on access for minorities to aid in Turkey. Of course, that's important. The action plan also speaks of vulnerability as a criterion. If I may read this motion in this way, I consider her to support policy. And then I recommend it, I think it's called. I've only been doing this for 15 years.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u114	You don't always have a clear line in that, so it's a good thing you say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u115	I can then imagine that this motion will be adopted. I would like to ask for the motion in part No. 1069 to hold. We're not gonna work this out this weekend. It's all gonna be later. Then I can imagine many of the things from Mr Voordewind's motion. For the moment, my advice would be to hold her, because at least it is not on this weekend. This really isn't going to be discussed until later, as we're going to work it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u116	I understand that she would be discouraged if she were put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u117	Then I have to dissuade her now, because I really can't see if all this is gonna work out. It's all so fresh. I don't want to commit to that in detail right now. I don't think it's bullshit, either. Maybe we'll do it. It's really a building block for us to fill it out, but I can't give any guarantees right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u118	If the Prime Minister says that he agrees with the motion, that the money should not be transferred to Erdogan, that the European Commission should also involve the private organisations because of the importance of the refugees, and that he should take it with him, then I can withdraw it. I don't necessarily have to file a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u119	I want to serve Mr Voordewind completely. I need to be very specific. The motion asks "that the financial support for tackling the refugee problem in Turkey is at least partly granted to NGOs including for the Netherlands through the Dutch Relief Alliance." I can't promise you that right now. That really needs to be worked out. Maybe the most honest thing to say is this. Hold the motion until we come forward with the further elaboration of this. I promise that we will look carefully at this, but I cannot promise that we will do it exactly this way, because I simply cannot see it now. It's all so fresh. We need to look at what form this takes and whether this is going to work or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u120	I'm holding the motion...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u121	I think that's the fairest thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u122	... thinking that the Prime Minister will keep this in mind when he goes that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u123	If I can avoid her, then absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u124	At the request of Mr Voordewind, I propose his motion (21501-20, No. 1060 to be retained. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u125	Then I come to the Kuzu motion on part No. 1061. We are talking to these countries. We are also working on partnership with these countries, but it will be a bit hysterical to organise summits with each country with which we want to enter into a partnership. I would advise against this element, but the spirit of the motion is already part of government policy. That must satisfy Mr Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u126	We shall vote on the motions tabled tomorrow at the beginning of the afternoon sitting.
