ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u1	At the beginning of this debate, we agreed with the spokesmen and the Minister that he would reply in blocks. At the end of those cubes there's room to ask questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u2	Mr. Chairman. I'm not much of a cube man because I don't have a elaborate text. First of all, let me make some general comments, then I will tackle the main problems. Then I go through the main points raised by the spokesmen and then I walk by all the spokesmen again to see if things have remained. I'll try to fit that into cubes with you. In their own words, the spokesmen have all indicated what this is all about, namely all the Groningen people who have been affected by the earthquakes in that area. The spokesmen have really looked for the individual and put down from the individual what the problem in that area is. Since 1962 we have been winning natural gas in Groningen and we all benefit from it. We thus heat up our homes to 98%, and we all benefit indirectly from the high revenue generated by gas extraction for the State. Then the first earthquake occurred in 1986. That's not the end of it. We know that these earthquakes are caused by gas extraction, and those earthquakes are a real threat to the people of Groningen. When I talk about a real threat to the people of Groningen, that sounds so impersonal. I am well aware that these are tens of thousands of people who have suffered damage and who are faced with a serious problem. If there had been three of these serious cases, it would have been enough for Members of Parliament to look into them and ask for action. If you look at the nature and extent of what is happening, and see how long it has been and what the perspectives are, then it is quite clear that this is very serious. I am very aware of my expensive duty as a responsible ruler to defend the interests of all the people of Groningen in that area. I do that with conviction. I do that by making careful decisions on the extraction of gas. I do so by taking decisions on compensation for damage and by preventive measures. I am also doing so by taking compensatory measures. All this doesn't have to be fought with me by anyone, I do it on my own. And by the word "I," I mean the whole cabinet. The spokesperson commented that in 2013, after an opinion had been given by the SodM in order to quickly gain less gas, more gas was won. Let us look at the actual situation at the time. I joined Economic Affairs in October 2012. At that time, there was a gas extraction decision applicable from 2007 to 2013, which was not subject to a ceiling. Then there came an opinion from state surveillance to quickly reduce the amount of gas produced. I have looked into the factual information and whether that was sufficient for a far-reaching decision-making process. I felt that this was not enough; I also shared that with the Chamber. I said at the time: there is, but I think things should be done; I want to use the year 2013 to do all kinds of research. I shared with the Chamber what investigations I was going to do and what had to come out. I did. So in that current year 2013 I did not intervene in the extraction of gas. Gas extraction was carried out on the basis of a valid extraction decision with no ceiling. When that winter turned out to be a cold winter, more gas was extracted because the people who depended on the gas from Groningen needed more gas. That gas was delivered at the time. By the end of that year 2013, all the data from those investigations were listed. Then there was a new advice from the State surveillance of the Mines. It was not that we had to reduce as quickly and as much as possible, but that we had to reduce extraction as much as possible in the core area, where the problems lie. That's what I did. I have made a decision on this which involved two things. Firstly, it meant that we would go back by 80% in the core area. Secondly, I have decided that there would be an upper limit of 42.5 billion m3 for gas extraction. That amount was allowed to be won and not anymore. In the past it could have been more, but not since then. That is the decision I made at the time, but that decision did not come through completely in the procedure, because there was an intermediate earthquake in Ten Boer. That earthquake also affected the city of Groningen. That was a new one. For the first time an earthquake was also felt in the city of Groningen. I had the NAM find out what was going on, and I was advised by the state authorities. I am being advised because there is going to be an enormous amount of information available from all sides, which should ultimately lead to a decision on my part. I would like that information to be funneled by state surveillance, an independent and expert organisation that collects all the information, draws conclusions from it and gives an opinion on that basis. Then it is up to me to decide on this. I do not hide behind state surveillance; I think it is important for state surveillance. So I also think it is important what that advises me, and I take that into account. The SodM advised me at the time, and I quote: "On the basis of SodM's conclusions on the actual observations, SodM advises the Minister of Economic Affairs to set a lower production ceiling for 2015 and 2016, which is 39.4 billion m instead of the current ceiling of 42.5 billion m (...)." State surveillance proposes to divide the gas extraction area in four. For each of these four parts, state surveillance has indicated what the ceiling should be. I followed that decision of state surveillance literally, because I thought it was a wise decision. That is why, at the end of that procedure, I decided to set 39.4 billion cubs for the current year, 2015, and for the year 2016. I said right then that I would not leave it there, because I think that the matter is too moving. I would like to review on 1 July 2015 and 1 January 2016 what information and any additional advice are available. Then I want to take a new decision on this. This may mean that there will be a different production ceiling than that 39.4 billion cube. This has been further crystallized by all the consultations with the people in Groningen, the organisations of the people in Groningen and the directors in Groningen that have taken place in recent months. Of course, we don't talk to all these people for nothing. It's not for nothing that we're impressed by what they're all going through. We are not listening for nothing to the conclusions drawn by the drivers in the area. At that time, I concluded that it was necessary to look not only at the 39.4 billion cub as of 1 July 2015, i.e., at 1 July 2015, but also at an alternative. That alternative would then be what is expected to be needed on the basis of the security of supply for this year. We looked at this at the beginning of February. Spring can still get cold and the next winter can also get cold. In such a situation, we need 35 billion cubs for security of supply. From this, I concluded for myself that I would have the details of the 35 billion cube and the 39.5 billion cube examined. I will be advised on this by state supervision and then I will take a decision on it. That's what's gonna happen now. I have realised the following. If you decide to take a different view on 1 July on the basis of new information and any new advice, you must make it applicable from 1 January of this year and therefore for the whole year 2015, not from 1 July of this year, but for the whole year. In my view, this could also be done by saying that if we do not win more than 16.5 billion m3 in the first half of the year and we have the situation on 1 July that there is another opinion on the basis of which I should decide that it should be 35 billion m3 I can do so. If there is no other advice, it is possible to maintain the decision that lies ahead and this year 39.4 billion m3 will be won. However, that is not the end of the story, because I will only talk about 1 July. I don't think that's stable enough. I want something else in view, and that's the possibility to change the system. Now we have the system of as fixed a level of extraction from the Groninger field as possible. Depending on the temperature, what extra is needed is added via conversion. To this end, we introduce nitrogen into high-caloric gas. This combination gives you low-caloric gas of the Groninger quality. We've had that system for many years. There's no other way. You can also blow those conversion plants, those nitrogen plants, for 365 days a year and 24 hours a day. We buy natural gas, LNG/Russian gas, on the world market. Then we mix that with the nitrogen and insert it into our system. For what extra is needed, we use the Groninger gas. That's a possibility. Depending on the temperature, in a warm year we need 21 billion plus 2 billion, which is the reserve for technical problems, i.e. 23 billion m of natural gas. In a cold year, like the last year comparable to 1985, we need 33 billion cuub billion plus 2 billion cuub billion or 35 billion m. My big question is: what is the best thing for safety? Is it for safety's sake that you're always close to 35 billion every year? Or is it better to sit on a lower level? In practice, in an average year between 23 billion and 35 billion, approximately 30 billion m will be needed. Is it better to sit on that average of 30 billion, depending on the temperature? Then the situation may arise that 23 billion is needed one year and 35 billion the following year. Is that last one safer now? You're gonna be on a lower level, but you're gonna be on big fluctuations. Or is it safer to sit at a slightly higher level of 35 billion and keep it stable? I don't know. I'd like to have that sorted out properly. What's the answer to that question? I also want to know what the impact is if you get 20 billion gas from abroad. What's the impact on the countries you're getting it from? And what's the impact on the prices you get it from? I also want to know what's going on with the technique. Are the nitrogen plants we have really able to run without risk for 365 days a year and 24 hours a day? If one of these installations fails, we have to add a lot of Groninger gas at one time and that also has safety effects. I'd like to have all the questions I have on that. This must be done before 1 December of this year. I can decide what I'm going to do by 1 January. But the first decision comes on 1 July, which is the 35 billion or 39.4 billion. Something's coming up. Then I will see if the decision can be taken on 1 January next, in a responsible way, to change to another system.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u3	I feel like we've finished the introduction. I think Mrs. Mulder was the first to rise. No, it was Mrs. Van Veldhoven. I'm trying to avoid a fight, which is why I'm gonna have it fought on that side of the microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u4	There was no argument in the making here. The Minister is advised by experts. That is right, because this is a matter of careful decision-making. The experts who can best assess how much is needed in a year are the people of GTS. They have advised the Minister: 35 billion cuub. This is minimally necessary for the security of supply. This also makes it possible to operate everything that is needed in a cold year; 35 from the Groningenveld and in addition we use all the options. Now the Minister says: I also want to see if we can go lower, between 23 billion cube and 35 billion cube, but for that we need more knowledge. We'll hear about that later. My question remains, then, what is the basis for the Minister's intention to leave the ceiling at 39.4 billion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u5	Under the Mining Act, a mining plan must be submitted, on which I must take a mining decision. There was a mining plan. There's an opinion from the SodM that I just read. On the basis of that extraction plan and the advice I received, I took the decision of 39.4 billion cubic metres, which I also communicated with the Chamber in December this year and next year. I said that on the one hand I followed that opinion and on the other on 1 July and on 1 January I included those two re-examination points. On that request for that extraction decision, the submission of the extraction plan, I took a decision which is literally in line with the final opinion I received from the SodM on this matter. I did that last time, I do that now, I want to do it on 1 July and I want to do it on 1 January. I am not saying that I am blindly following the advice of the SodM, but I am saying that these are very important to me. If I do not have good arguments to depart from that, then I am inclined to adopt those opinions in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u6	The advice of the SodM was based on the question: what should be reduced at least in order to exclude the worst risks? The question that has now arisen, which the Minister has not for nothing also asked GTS, is what is minimally necessary for the security of supply. Then there will be another advice, which is a maximum of 35 billion cubic metres. The Minister himself said it: between 23 billion cubs and 35 billion cubs. The Minister may at any time decide to adjust the ceiling on the basis of the security argument, according to the legal provisions in place. We have now taken the step together to "let's go win what is minimally necessary for security of supply." Then why does the Minister not lower the ceiling to a maximum of 35 billion cubic metres?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u7	I may decide at any time, but I do not intend to decide in the wild. I intend to do so under a regular procedure, verifiable and explanatory, in a way that remains valid when others act against it. I want to be able to defend that sufficiently. If I have been presented with a plan and I have received an opinion from state supervision in the sense of "setting a lower production ceiling for 2015 and 2016, which is 39.4 billion m," and I do not have any good arguments to depart from it at that time, then I will not do so. I shall then decide in accordance with that. All those people in Groningen, all those administrators and all those organizations are sitting in the Chamber and I am not talking to a deaf person. We have all listened very carefully to this. I therefore believe that it is necessary at the next rethinking moment, on 1 July, to really check whether alternatives should be considered. This alternative may be based on the security of supply. I have therefore asked those who are concerned: what is needed for this security of supply? They advised me on this. They specified that. I checked that out. I've agreed to that, too. Then I said: that is the alternative. There are now two options. One is 35 billion cuub, the other is 39.4 billion cuub. What it's gonna be, I don't know yet. I understand that several Members have views on this. I find that very interesting and I very much respect that. I also think there are arguments for this. However, I do not yet have a view. I'm waiting for that case to be sorted out and for further information to be available on July 1st. There will be further information from several quarters. Then I'll get further advice from state surveillance. At the same time, I have a view of my own.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u8	The Minister replied, as he always replied: I need more research and advice. He is consistent in that. The minister also said that he can't lower the ceiling in the wild. However, can the opinion of GTS be regarded as "in the wild"? The Minister also says: I do not have good arguments. I've been wanting to go over this with the minister for a while. The SodM's opinion was in 2013: as much as possible and as soon as possible as realistic. The 2014 opinion simply repeats this, despite the fact that this is often denied. The January 2014 opinion says on page 22: SodM still believes that the speed of gas production can have a significant impact on the total number of earthquakes. I come to the opinion of 2015, the most recent advice we have received. In the hearing, the SodM said, "I can't guarantee safety." The opinion states: SodM cannot say whether the proposed measures comply with the standards for an acceptable level of risk. This gives the Minister three incredibly firm arguments and there is also the amount of GTS. Those are very firm arguments to say now: I am going to 35 billion cube. That is also the wish of the coalition partner. The Minister has delivered the supporting evidence ready-to-use. The Minister can intervene; that is what he himself says. Why is the Minister acting like an iron hen despite the fact that the Minister has a different first name? Why is he holding on to that 39.4 billion cube?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u9	It's not like I'm investigating or hiding advice. I'm only gonna have tests done if I don't think I have enough information. It is my responsibility to make careful decisions. I am prepared to do so and I am decisive. However, I only make decisions when I think that they are sufficiently prepared and I have an insight into what is going on, what are the alternatives and what are the consequences. I ask for advice from those who know it, such as the State surveillance of the Mines and my own officials. Then it comes to me and then I decide for myself. That's how it goes. In this case, I have received a strong opinion. I am fine with Mrs Van Tongeren quoting things from the advice of State surveillance of the Mines. I'll put my quotes to it for a while. The advice to the Minister is to set a lower production ceiling for 2015 and 2016, which is 39.4 billion m. That's the advice. I did not see any arguments to depart from that opinion, so I made that decision. After that, I said that I took a decision not only on the 39.4 billion cube, but also on two rethinking moments. I am going to give the first moment of review extra weight by having work done on 1 July in preparation for that decision, which will enable me to give a serious picture of an alternative - 35 billion m - and to seek advice on this and possibly decide on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u10	The Minister undoubtedly agrees with the Chamber that Groningers is in a much more unsafe situation than other Dutch people. Surely the Minister doesn't need more arguments than that to do this now? GTS says we can go to 35 billion cubs. The SodM supports the advice it has given. I've asked the people of the SodM that several times. The SodM never took away the 2013 and 2014 opinions. However, the Minister asks the SodM: we want to do this, should we? Then the SodM says it has to happen that way and that way with those and those clusters. I shall return to the example I have just given. What if your doctor tells you not to eat sugar? What if you ask your doctor, "What if I want to?" Then the doctor can say, "Eat it only at night if you've already had a meal." The minister says in that ship ownership: my doctor advises me to eat sugar after my meal. The Minister is distorting the SodM's advice and is hiding behind it. There are arguments about reducing this now. I call on the Minister to reconsider this, for the safety of the Groningen people. How many more arguments does the Minister need?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u11	I object to being told that I am distorting the advice and that I am hiding behind it. I'm not twisting anything, and I'm quoting literally. I'm not hiding behind anything, because this is just my responsibility. So I really do object to that. I come to the point made by Mrs Van Tongeren. I put that 35 billion cube in the picture myself. I did it with conviction. I also said that if we choose to do so on the basis of opinions and on the basis of the consideration I am going to make, then I think that it should start with retroactive effect from 1 January rather than 1 July. That is why I am going to win so much until 1 July that even from 1 January that 35 billion cuub can become reality. I think that's a very clear line. I think this is also aimed at the interest of the people in Groningen. In addition, I am not restricting it to this. I am already starting with the very complex complex of the preparation of the decision that I intend to take on 1 January. What about safety when you go up and down and the average is lower than a slightly higher average? What's the safest thing? I'll have that checked out. What about all the technical aspects? What about the dependence on gas from Russia or from LNG that we need to involve in the world market? I'll get those things sorted out. On 1 January, I could take another decision on the basis of the situation, data and advice I know. I am very conscientious and careful about this. In that light, I find the words of Mrs Van Tongeren that I am distorting the matter and that I would hide, inappropriate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u12	Before I give you the floor, Mrs Mulder, I say the following. I know you all have a lot of questions, but if you make them all as long as your predecessors, then... It is wiser to ask short questions, because then you can ask many. You have been able to tell us what you think in your eight minutes' speaking time. Now it's about you asking short, factual questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u13	Is there a peak load in a very cold winter anyway? If so, how does the Minister indicate whether the hot, medium or cold scenario is being considered? That's what we're talking about. So it might as well be 27 instead of 33 billion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u14	I've already indicated that this is true. If we assume full use of nitrogen capacity, we can make our supplement dependent on the Groninger gas. Then there are fluctuations between 23 billion and 35 billion. That will indeed be the situation. There will be two fluctuations. You'll have a fluctuation within a year because in winter you'll get more out of it than in summer. Moreover, you have the fluctuation from year to year, where the level varies throughout the year. The question is whether the sum of fluctuations is more unsafe than if you take one stable level of 35 billion per year, which means that the same amount is won as much as possible throughout the year. You can realize that by supplementing it with nitrogen. I am absolutely not convinced that the average of 30 billion is safer, but it may be. I'd like to have that examined. I like to get advice on that. If that were the case, I wouldn't know why we couldn't decide.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u15	Is the Minister now saying that he could decide to go back to 30 billion on July 1st? Does that mean he also wants to look at the minimum variant? So far, I only hear the cabinet talking about the maximum amount of gas extraction, while the CDA is just so looking for the answer to the question of what we need at least.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u16	What I just described applies to my decision on 1 January 2016. The decision of 1 July 2015 concerns whether we stay at 39.4 billion or go back to 35 billion. If we go back to 35 billion, we have already made it possible with retroactive effect from 1 January. In addition, we are now working on a new decision before 1 January next.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u17	There are several questions to ask, including a lot about the bandwidth, but let's see if the Minister is able to provide clarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u18	Shortly, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u19	I have the impression that the Minister is confusing two discussions. There is an opinion on which temperatures and conditions we can still meet our security of supply. The upper limit is 35 billion. The Minister wants to hold on to space for himself by doing 39.4 billion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u20	Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u21	The question is whether that's true. The second question is: why does the Minister want more than security of supply and how does it relate to his plea that Groninger's security is paramount?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u22	I don't know if I want any more. I know that I have already decided on 39.4 billion, which is in line with an opinion of state supervision. That opinion on the 39.4 billion involved three things, by the way. In the southwest, the amount of gas would be reduced to the level of 2012. You divide the entire area of Groningen into four compartments and you put a cap on each compartment: one on the total and one on the parts. Moreover, I have linked it to the fact that I am going to talk again about roads on 1 July and 1 January. That's what I've already decided. That decision is there. That is in accordance with the opinion. In addition, we present the 35 billion as an alternative. We will look at what will be for advice on these two alternatives later on 1 July. It may well be that, as I understand that the PvdA Group estimates it, we will opt for 35 billion. If the opinions and arguments do not point in that direction, it is also possible that we will remain at 39.4 billion, in accordance with the opinion I have already received and followed. That does not alter the fact that I am going to do the other thing as of 1 January next. I'm gonna find out from January 1st if the whole system's gonna kick ass. The result is that we reach an average of 30 billion. I do not hold you up in that regard, because there are a lot of questions that need to be answered first, but that possibility does exist.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u23	It doesn't make any sense to give a vegetarian a sausage, so we'll be done with that soon. Like my colleagues, I still have questions about the 35 billion, because we think that is far too much. GTS says you don't need more than 35 billion for security of supply, but again, we can still discuss that. It is my concern that the Minister should be able to hold on to EUR 39.4 billion. Then the Minister has to admit that he wants to keep space for himself to get more gas out of the Groningen field than the security of supply strictly demands from him. I therefore believe that he should say honestly to the Groningers that not only security of supply is at stake, but also additional commercial interests.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u24	Mrs Ouwehand is not going to put the answer in my mouth, because that is what I happen to be about. It is true that I took that decision to 39.4 billion at the end of a careful procedure. I am literally in line with the advice given to me by state surveillance. I have no reason to distance myself from that decision. I do think there should be an alternative. That alternative is the alternative to security of supply. As I said, there is a review on 1 July. At that point, I would like to see whether there are decisive reasons to move away from the 39.4 billion and move to 35 billion. That's the trade-off I made.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u25	The Minister says that he has no reason to deviate from the 39.4 billion, but for my group the safety of the Groningen people is a very important reason. Surely I can assume that this applies to the Minister and that I misunderstood him? In any case, please, let's go back to 35 billion cubs. My group wants to go further, but let us go back to that. If we win 16.5 billion this first half of the year and then complete the ceiling that keeps the minister possible, up to 39.4 billion, we will open up the gas tap enormously during the second half of this year. The Minister doesn't want that, does he?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u26	Of course, it's about security. On the basis of this security, the decision can be taken not to sit at 39.4 billion, but to go to 35 billion. That could prove to be true. I do not now have any advice to show that this is appropriate, but it may be that such advice is there and that I am convinced of it. Then I'm gonna step off the 39.4 billion and then I'm gonna go to 35 billion. To allow us to go retroactively to 35 billion, it has been decided, which went into yesterday, to go back to 16.5 billion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u27	The Minister says he does not have any advice to support this, but I would like to ask how many opinions he still needs. There's already an opinion from State surveillance on the mines. Those are even several advices. I read from this: the more gas production, the more heavier, damaging earthquakes. This is literally stated in the opinion of state surveillance: the more gas production, the more tremors and the less gas production, the less tremors. That should be enough for the Minister to say that he really does not go above the 35 billion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u28	I've already formulated it twice. I will not do that a third time, because that is not necessary, because Mrs Dik already has that very well on the retina after one time. I have received a final opinion from state surveillance, as I have quoted. There's a lot of information coming in from all sides. You've got a lot of things to take into account. In the end, state surveillance looks at what the minister can do best. He formulated it, and I followed it. What I have just said is that the review will take place on 1 July and an alternative has been presented. If it turns out that 39.4 billion is bad for safety and that the other is good for safety, I can estimate what will happen. The PvdA Group has already done this. However, I do not take that decision until I have the facts and the opinions available to me, and that is 1 July.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u29	In my view, the Minister has already had these opinions three times, namely three times the advice of State supervision of the Mines to reverse gas extraction as much as possible as quickly as possible. I'm gonna go back to the sum, 'cause I don't quite get it. The Minister has set a ceiling of 39.4 billion cubic metres this year. We then have enough gas in cold weather and do not use the nitrogen conversion capacity available. In the introduction the Minister said that if we do use this conversion capacity, we have to win 35 billion cubs in cold weather. The conversion capacity is between 19 billion and 23 billion cubic metres. For the sake of convenience, let us say that we are talking about an average of 20 billion. What's the difference? You'd be 39 billion minus 20 billion instead of 35 billion, because you're using the conversion capacity? You're gonna end up at around 20 billion, aren't you? I don't get the 35 billion at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u30	I do not understand Mrs Klever's question at all. I'll tell you what I think. At the moment we have the system that we have as flat a pattern as possible of natural gas extraction in Groningen. Depending on the temperature, we use conversion and the insertion of nitrogen into high-caloric gas. The nitrogen production and insertion into high-caloric gas is what we are going to do on top of Groningen. You can also approach it differently: maximum nitrogen production and Groningen in addition. In the first case, the situation is as we now have it and we come to the decisions that I have taken and to the advice on security of supply given by GTS, NAM and GasTerra. In the second case, we are in a whole new situation, and I have already described it a few times, on which I will take a decision on 1 January 2016.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u31	The Minister does not understand my question and talks about peak capacity and so on. I also understand the need for peak capacity. However, you can also solve this differently, for example by building gas storage. Let me put it more simply. Last year 42 billion m of gas was extracted and no use was made of the available conversion capacity of 20 billion cubic metres. Why didn't the Minister make use of the conversion capacity last year? After all, the crane could have been down a lot. Why doesn't the Minister use it this year?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u32	Mrs. Klever says you can also use gas storage. We have gas production from the small fields, we have gas production from the Groningen field and we buy high-caloric gas to which we add a little low-caloric gas, so that it remains within the standards. We also have the conversion capacity in which nitrogen is introduced. A whole mixture of technique has been set up. There is a large industrial system behind it to ensure that customers are sure that they have gas at their disposal at any time. This is the system with which we have been working for decades. I do not think this system can be the last word at the moment. I started with the problems in Groningen and with my responsibility to defend the interests of the Groningen people. I'd like to recreate that in two moments. The first moment is July 1 when I present the alternative to security of supply. The second moment is 1 January when I alternatively present a completely different system. I think that's my responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u33	You can cross two cow breeds and when you've done that, you hope the cow will produce more milk. This can be due to genetic composition, climate or better use of fire. If you have done research on this as a cow researcher, you can conclude that this new breed is better or not. However, this is geology, man-induced geology that is known very little about worldwide. In his reply, the Minister says: 'I congratulate the officials who have given a very thorough and complete answer 'The models and methodology of the NAM, the KNMI and TNO lead to different results, without at this moment being able to determine on the basis of available observations which model or methodology is the right one. That is also consistent with what I have just said: this is an area on which not so much is known at all. If there's a quake later, where's the epicenter? How heavy is she? What depth does she come from? When does she strike? We just don't know a lot of things. The Minister now says that he knows all this on 1 July and that he can tell us at what level we can obtain responsible gas. That doesn't cut wood, does it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u34	What happens with the earthquakes in the Groningen field is a unique situation in the world. We scrape experts from all over the world to do research. They're all unique investigations. These investigations are necessary because we want to have as much information as possible to base our decision-making. I can't wait. I cannot say: let us first investigate for five years, then see if we are sure and then make a decision. I think I should take decisions earlier, because of the urgency of the situation in Groningen. Over the past two years, we've done a lot of research in Groningen. Now another five technical-scientific working groups are in progress to explore all kinds of things. On top of that is another advisory committee with foreign and Dutch experts who must manage all this in the right direction. The whole thing is delivered to me again around 1 May, so that it can also be studied by state supervision. That can give me an opinion on 1 June, after which I can take a decision on 1 July. I know that it is not certain and that there is no precedent yet, but I have to make a decision every time. I want to take that decision as well as possible and well-founded, and that includes research. I will have the investigations conducted in the best possible way and as intensively as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u35	I don't disagree with all that, but if there's so much uncertainty, then you're going to be on the safest side, by definition, as long as you don't have any more certainty? My advice is more helpful to you than the advice you receive on 1 June. Why don't you sit on the safe side?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u36	We have now taken a decision in accordance with the opinion of state surveillance. We have said that we will be presenting security of supply as an alternative on 1 July. With effect from 1 January, we will examine whether a completely new system can be introduced. I think that we have very conscientiously sought the middle ground between, on the one hand, ensuring that the decisions are sufficiently well-founded and, on the other hand, ensuring that the pace is maintained overall. The urgency is great in Groningen. Improvement is really necessary. Here's about the improvement. We are now moving to a level of 16.5 billion. We have shown 35 billion m as an alternative for this year. I think it was 46 billion in 2011, in 2012 it was 47 billion. Now we are talking about a possible decision for this year of 35 billion, and I have already said that I am doing the preparatory work for a possible decision that could lead to an average of 30 billion for next year. So the case is really on the move. This is necessary because of the seriousness of the problem in Groningen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u37	Knowing the Minister, I suspect his procedural reasoning is just right...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u38	I would ask the people in the public gallery to refrain from any sounds of consent or disapproval. If it happens again, I'll be forced to clear the public gallery. I'd hate to do that, but I'm willing to do that. I therefore hope that we will be able to continue with the dignity that we have been able to exercise earlier on this day. Proceed with your interruption, Mr Dijkgraaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u39	The Minister approaches this procedurally. That's the way it should be, because that's how he's supposed to operate as a driver. He's got to weigh it all in. At the same time, almost all parties in this house are asking the Minister to amend that decision. My question is actually very simple: how does the Minister take that into account in his decision-making?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u40	I think I do justice to that feeling by doing three things. First of all, I read an additional review moment on 1 July. Secondly, I am presenting an alternative. Thirdly, I am already ahead of the implementation of the alternative in the event that it is chosen. So I think I'm gonna go along with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u41	It was already known. Nevertheless, we have a debate here. Almost all the political groups want the Minister to clarify the second half of the year. The advice suggests that it will be safer if you win less. So if you approach it from a safety point of view, it's a well-founded advice. That is why I appeal to the Minister. We can, of course, make statements in the second term, but everyone will see what happens next. Then there's probably a 35 billion motion. I also like it when the Minister says that he supports his reasoning, but that he also looks at the reality in Parliament. An overwhelming majority now wants to clarify: 35 billion and no more.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u42	If Mr Dijkgraaf is convinced that this will be the outcome on 1 July, he is pleased to see that I have already made it possible to implement this measure. We will look at the situation on 1 July. We'll see what facts and research data are there. I just described what's going on behind the scenes. We'll see what advice there is and then I'll make my decision. If I take that decision and the decision reaches 35 billion, it can therefore be applied retroactively from 1 January. I think the difference between what I do and what Mr Dijkgraaf says the Chamber wants is not great.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u43	In line with what Mr Dijkgraaf and the Minister say, I also think that the difference is not great. It may not be appreciated in Groningen, but I admire the way in which the Minister handled the dossier, which is very conscientious. However, we must note that the Groningen people do not trust the situation. That's because it hasn't been properly arranged for 50 years. They are now thinking: the elections are coming; it will be with those people in The Hague. Let me just say it the way it is. That's the feeling that lives there. The whole Chamber, all the people here in the benches, is proposing to bring it back to 35 billion, so that we all know where we stand. Then perhaps the Minister is formally right in the way he wants to deal with it, but is he no longer entitled to the political majority that appears here?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u44	In this whole procedure, I have not accelerated or slowed down at any time in connection with approaching elections. I really haven't made any other decision in relation to approaching elections either. I have a responsibility to make decisions which I can sufficiently support and which I can also defend if they are challenged. In my opinion, they are also in the interest of the Groningen people. The decision we have now taken on the 39.4 billion was already there. However, I thought that the next moment of review should include a reasonable alternative. That's the security of supply. If you choose to do so, it must also be possible to carry out it retroactively. I think we've made a very neat story, which is also well defendable in the procedure. In the end, it is also in the interest of the Groningen. It may be decided for reasons of safety. Its implementation has already begun.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u45	The chance that we go up after 1 July is about as good as the chance that the Italians no longer eat pizza. It is quite clear that my group, the Labour Party, considers this unthinkable. I want to mark that. We are in this position together with the other parties. I note that there is a slight difference between that position and the position of the cabinet. It is a very small amount of light, but there is. Or am I wrong about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u46	The Group of the Party of European Socialists therefore assumes that it is unthinkable that there will be an opinion on 1 July which states that there will be no improvement if we switch to a security of supply of 35 billion m. That's your assessment, Mr. Vos. You have every right to do so, as do your group. I do not draw that conclusion, and I will not make that decision until I have it prepared for that decision. A lot of information needs to be collected. That information must be evaluated and converted into an opinion. If that's there, I'll make a decision. Without advice and without consistency in a reasoning, I do not move from one decision to another. That is not the care that should be expected of me as a ruler.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u47	I understand that this is at the heart of the debate. That's why I'm giving everyone another chance to ask a question in this round. Mrs. Mulder is also at the interrupting microphone. She came to me at the very beginning to ask if she could interrupt again. I said sit down for a second. She did. It was only when others returned to the interrupting microphone that she did so again. So I think it is appropriate to give Mrs Mulder the floor first.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u48	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Minister has announced that he is going back to 16.5 billion cub for the first half of this year. I wonder what specific SodM report is behind this. Can we receive this before the start of the second term? After all, the Minister does nothing without advice, including that of the SodM.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u49	This is anticipating the opinion and decision. I expect to receive an opinion on 1 June and I want to take a decision on 1 July. Then I was asked: do you then allow that decision to enter into force from 1 July of this year, or do you make it possible for that decision to take effect from 1 January? I have thought, on my own behalf, that we can take a step now. If we consider this to be a serious alternative and if we consider it possible, in the interests of safety, for it to apply throughout the year, then we must take the step to move to 16.5 billion cubs already in preparation. I'm not just doing what the State Department of Mines says. I'm responsible for that whole procedure. For me, it is important that good information is available. If there isn't, I'm gonna run tests. For me, too, the advice I receive from state supervision is very important. In the end, I make my own assessment and make my own decision, which I am solely responsible for; not the officials, not the state surveillance, not the GTS, not GasTerra, but me alone.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u50	The Minister is already ahead of that decision. Is it not conceivable, then, that the whole decision should be brought forward and that we should now move on to the 35 billion cube? Can't that reduction take place already? The CDA prefers just to go to 30 billion cubs. We are very clear about that. Perhaps, however, it is conceivable for the Minister, in the same reasoning he has just put down for the first half of the year, to take this decision for the second half of the year as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u51	No. I believe that, between now and 1 July, I still need the necessary additional information to be able to take a responsible decision and to ask for an opinion on this matter from state supervision. Not until I have that information and that advice, I will make my decision. However, I do believe that there should be an opportunity for that decision to come into force already. That is why I am getting it dressed up in such a way that it can apply retroactively from 1 January of this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u52	Is that possible if the decision is not taken until 1 July, rather than now? Can the Minister not just say: for the security of the Groningen people and the security of supply I go to 35 billion cuub? My party also prefers lower, but let's try what's feasible. Is that still possible on July 1st? In an interview in 2013 the Minister said that the winter contracts are really bought in well in advance. If an opinion is delivered in June and a decision is taken in July, another hearing will be held...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u53	Your question is whether it is still possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u54	The answer to that question is yes. I have already said that we are no longer concluding long-term contracts. The only thing we do now is to offer gas on the gas market in the Netherlands. There, contracts are concluded that are shorter than five years. We must do the same in accordance with what the ACM has decided on this matter. So we have our hands free to the maximum. The result of this line, which has been in force for some time now, is that it is now technically possible, if I let 16.5 billion kuub win, to go to both 39.4 billion kuub and 35 billion kuub on that date. Some spokesmen said that there are also security aspects if you switch from 16.5 billion to 23.5 billion, which you would then win in the second half. I realize that very well. I will also include them in my request for advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u55	Is there any way in which the Minister can make a legal commitment to this? After all, there is now a decision that the NAM can reach 39.4 billion. GasTerra has not been instructed by the Minister to sell at a lower level. The Minister says that all this is still theoretically possible, but can he somehow record it? Then the Chamber will be sure that in July it will not receive the answer that the gas has long been sold. After all, the Minister cannot give any indication to GasTerra to sell less gas. He can't force the NAM to pump up less right now. So we would have the answer in July: I would have wanted to, but I am now at 37 billion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u56	The Chamber is sure because I say so, and I'm sure it is, because the NAM told me that she does.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u57	I'm going to make a prediction to the Minister, namely that in May we still don't know everything. So the question is not really: what does the Minister know for sure? The question to the Minister, to the Cabinet and to the Chamber is: what do we do, given all the uncertainty? The Minister would like a consistent reasoning. Let me take him into account in the reasoning of the SodM report: more extraction is more compact, more earthquakes, is bad for safety.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u58	What is your question, Mrs Van Veldhoven?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u59	If the Minister says in the first half of the year that he is going back to 16.5 billion, but leaves open the possibility of winning more again in the second half of the year, he leaves open the possibility that security will deteriorate in the second half of the year. That is why my question to the Minister is: is he, like all the parties who have stood here, worthy of honour and honour: that includes the Labour Party, which is now clearly asking the Minister to set the ceiling at 35 billion, based on his own consistent reasoning?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u60	I've already answered that question. Of course there is not complete certainty on 1 May, 1 June and 1 July, but a lot of information has been gathered. That's expert information. They shall exchange and assess that information with each other. There will then be opinions from steering committees and guidance committees. At some point that leads to something going into State surveillance. We will then be given an opinion from State surveillance on this matter. So it's not like I have all the information and complete certainty. At some point, however, I think that I have sufficient information, advice and certainty to base a decision, especially the decision I am taking now. Maybe I can illustrate that briefly? I have now decided to apply a certain level of natural gas extraction for the years 2015 and 2016. I said that before 1 July 2016 a full application should be made by the NAM for the period from 1 January 2017. In addition, I said that I would review it on 1 July and 1 January next. Given the seriousness of the problem, it is a nuanced and cautious decision. However, it is a decision that is the basis for gas production, gas distribution and gas consumption in the Netherlands and a large part of Germany, Belgium and France. So these are important decisions that must also be consistent. Mrs Van Veldhoven said that it would not be possible for you, against the safety issue, to decide for the second half of the year to win more? In my view, it is obvious that I will reach a decision of up to 35 billion if the opinion shows that it is necessary for safety to sit at 35 billion and, in the interests of safety, it would be unwise to sit at 39.4 billion. However, I await that information and that advice. At that point, I'll make my decision and not before.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u61	But the Minister already has the advice. The advice of the SodM says: more winning is more earthquakes. The minister now shuts down the crane after 16.5 billion cubic metres. Does he have any indication that it would be safer to turn the crane on? Or is it safer to keep up with the same ceiling? The question is, what do you do in the event of uncertainty? Has the Minister received concrete advice that it would be good for safety to keep the crane open? If so, I would like to see that advice. If not, he can only set the ceiling for 2015 at a maximum of 35 billion cubic metres.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u62	For the third time, on the basis of the conclusions on the actual observations, the SodM comes to the following opinion: set a lower production ceiling for 2015 and 2016, which is 39.4 billion cubic metres. That's what SodM literally said to me. That advice is just there. That's the advice. There's a lot to say about that. That is what I have just been allowed to do a number of times. I won't do it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u63	At that time, the SodM did not know that the minister would go to 16.5 billion cubic metres for the first six months. We are therefore curious about the effects of the possibility of an increase in production after that. Has the Minister received any new advice on this matter? My question concerns the following. I get a very bad feeling that the Minister is so stubbornly holding onto the space for himself and the cabinet for that 39.4 billion cub. I conclude that, when you talk about security of supply combined with security of supply, there is no information that would argue for a higher extraction than that 35 billion cub. I'd like to hear a confirmation from the Minister on that point. I would like to say here that I have a strong impression that the Minister is playing 'hard to get' here, so that the debate is just about whether we are going to reach that 35 billion cube, and that we are not going to get at all to the observation that much more reduction is needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u64	It's the second time I've had such a suggestion. Mrs Van Tongeren has already made a suggestion in my direction, and now Mrs Ouwehand suggests that I am sitting here playing a bit of games and saying a few things, because I would like something else. The moment I do that, I'm not worth a snipe in front of me. Then I'm gonna have to get back to my birthplace and do something else. There's no way I'm doing that. I've never done it like this before. I'll tell you exactly what I believe. The Chamber can then respond to that. I think it is inappropriate for Mrs Ouwehand to suggest that I am telling a story when I am actually thinking something else and trying to get it done. I think that's really inappropriate. Let me now turn to the content of the question. I don't have any information right now that it would be safe to start winning more gas. All I have is an opinion from state surveillance that I've literally followed. I can imagine an opinion coming up that points a different direction. I'm open to that advice. Moreover, I am already ahead of that advice in its actual implementation. That's what I do in the interests of the safety of the people in Groningen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u65	The Minister may find it inappropriate, but I don't see any other explanation unless he provides it. The Chamber, like the Minister, has the information leading to the following conclusion. From the point of view of safety and security of supply at the maximum level, as the Minister had his own advisory body send to the Chamber, there is no reason to set a production ceiling above 35 billion. I really don't understand why the Minister doesn't want to do that right now. The explanation I have put forward is that he thinks it is useful if the debate continues on 35 billion, because it should be about an even further reduction. If the Minister has any other explanation, I'd like to hear it clip-and-ready, but at the moment he's not getting away from that suspicion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u66	Who has now started on a further reduction? That's you, isn't it? I said we could turn the whole system upside down. I have indicated which questions are involved and I am not at all sure what the results will be if we turn the system upside down. I'm willing to investigate that. If that proves to be better, we could decide to do so, you and I. I brought up that alternative myself. Furthermore, it has been said that there is no reason to win more than 35 billion cubs. I referred to the advice of state surveillance. According to you, it is likely that on 1 July 2015 it will be decided not to hold onto it but to go back to 35 billion. If advice shows that this is the right course of action, it is conceivable that, on the basis of the advice and information available to me, I will reach the same conclusion as you do. But I don't do that until then and not before.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u67	With all due respect to the Minister, I am increasingly eating up my ass. I believe I have heard the word "advisory" 200 times since the Minister started his speech. The opinions are clear. The extraction must be reduced. The province is not waiting for an opinion on 1 July 2015, which wants action. The Minister thinks everything and everything is inappropriate. The whole province considers it inappropriate to zoom in at EUR 39.4 billion, whereas it is clear that we can go to EUR 30 billion. The director of GasTerra has said that with 30 billion you can still meet the security of supply. Why the stubbornness? Why can't you turn that button on? I don't get it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u68	We could go to an average of 30 billion if we turned the system upside down. If you have an average, you're between 23 billion and 35 billion. Then you have both a fluctuation in a year as well as fluctuation over the years. I'm not convinced that that system is safer than a system where you're stable at 35 billion. I'd like to have that examined. If it's been investigated, I'd like some advice on that. If it turns out to be a better system, I am open to deciding in that direction. However, I would first like to do the necessary preparatory work. I'm not going to draw a final conclusion at the beginning of the preliminary work. I'm not doing that, and I can't do that. I have to make a careful decision. I need to be predictable and transparent. I have to abide by the rules in force. I'll do it this way. I recognise very well what is going on in Groningen and what pressure there is on the people in Groningen. In that sense, I anticipate the decision of 1 July 2015. Should the decision turn out as well as you think it will work out, it can be dealt with retroactively.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u69	The minister says he has to follow the rules, but he doesn't. He makes the rules. He's got the lead. He decides what happens in Groningen. Those opinions and this false certainty that we all know exactly what is happening on 1 July 2015 and what is a safe extraction are all bullshit. The number of quakes and the extraction are related and they have to go down. That's what the Room and the Groningen want to hear. Why don't I hear that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u70	All I say and what is not what Mr Smaling wants to hear is bullshit. That's his reasoning. My reasoning is that I don't make the rules. The Mining Act is made by the legislator, namely the government, the Lower House and the Upper Chamber. It states that a extraction plan must be drawn up and a decision must be taken on a extraction plan. It also states in the rules which apply to me that I must make a careful decision. So that's what I'm doing, the way I just put it. I understand very well the urgency of the whole matter. That is why, at the next review, I have also identified an alternative based on security of supply, and that the actual application of a reduced ceiling makes it possible to implement that alternative throughout the year.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u71	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u72	In doing so, I have looked at the extent of the extraction. Some spokesmen have mentioned that once every 10,000 years an accident could occur which could cause someone to die. We apply the standard of once every 10,000 years for existing construction in the Groningen area. A Dutch practical directive is being developed which states what the homes and other buildings in Groningen must comply with. The standard that applies to the whole of the Netherlands is once every 100,000 years. This is a risk that applies to the whole of the Netherlands and should therefore apply to Groningen as well. We'll let that come into effect immediately for the new building. As far as existing construction is concerned, I have noted that the work we have done before that standard is still in motion. We are currently working on a new card for that risk. A committee is studying the question of risk weighting and the chances of exceeding earthquakes. We are also going to gain experience in the next few months in the field of strengthening. In order to start immediately with the reinforcement work in the area, in accordance with the advice of the steering committee I have received on the Dutch practical directive, I apply the standard of once every 10,000 years for existing construction. Although it costs a great deal, and although this is a very big task and very far-reaching, we can nevertheless address a more responsible number of houses and other buildings. We are going to work on refining that standard in the coming period and finally finalising it. I expect that if that standard can finally be definitively established, there can be two effects. The first effect is that the work we are doing now to increase to 1 in 10,000 is such that they are also sufficient for the application of the standard once every 100,000 years. Moreover, as a result of this refinement we are currently working on, I expect the city of Groningen to remain outside the area. I don't know if that's true. I know I have to get right on it. With the city of Groningen I went through a separate route and made a separate amount available to ensure that in the coming months the matter can continue as it should. I'm going to start by strengthening the houses according to the steering committee's advice. Ultimately, the situation in Groningen must be such that the standard that the houses in Groningen meet is also the standard that applies to the rest of the Netherlands. Let me now turn to a number of other points that have been raised. Mrs van Tongeren spoke of the need to keep working with one calendar year and to work with one unit, which is why we are presenting figures to the Chamber. She says that we work one time with a certain description of m natural gas and the other time with a slightly different description. TNO did indeed use a different description. However, I think that we should be clear about the information given to the Chamber, so I will ensure that there is clarity on this point. Next, a comment on the transition from calendar year to broken year for a new gas year. The new gas year will apply from 1 October to 30 September. This way it is possible to plan things as flatly as possible for Groningen. Now we are at the end of the calendar year in the middle of winter. Anything can happen. It can be very cold or warmer. It is difficult for us to adapt the extraction to that. If we are going to work with the period from 1 October to 30 September, that is much better to control, in the interests of safety and stable production. That's why I'm switching to a broken year.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u73	This was the end of a block?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u74	Not yet. But the cubes are getting very small now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u75	It's gonna be a block per spokesperson now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u76	Not yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u77	I would like to thank the Minister for his commitment that we will now have all the data in one clear unit of measurement so that they are comparable. It is not quite clear to me yet whether all the reports that go to the Chamber keep the calendar year.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u78	No, we're not gonna do that. I will continue the broken year from 1 October to 30 September in the subsequent reports. However, I will ensure that the decisions we take on the ceilings for the coming period, the period 2015-2016, are maintained. So the transition to the broken year does not lead us to deviate from what we want in terms of content. I'm going to go to a broken year because it makes it better possible to have things checked out.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u79	I have no objection if the Minister deals with the NAM in this way, but the Chamber must be able to compare long-term cases. It's incredibly complicated when we have to recalculate everything. We should then go to the website to look at the situation per month and then add up everything to see to what extent the different years differ. I therefore call once again on the Minister to provide us with the data per year. Members of Parliament still have some support, but the figures must also be provided for the Groningers in such a way that they are comparable to those of previous years. I see the fog again, and then the Minister will feel wrongly attacked because we would not trust him, when it is just that we cannot follow the figures.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u80	I believe that Mrs Van Tongeren and the rest of the Chamber should be able to follow the figures. I will therefore ensure that the transition to the system of the broken year is not at the expense of being informed of the Chamber. I'll make it clear to the Chamber how I'm going to do this. If the Chamber wishes to speak to me about this, I am available for that. I would also like to make a comment about the investigations that are under way. I'm told you're investigating and you're working on it. However, it is necessary to carry out research. If we are to take decisions on the extraction of gas and the way in which we do it, we need to know what the possible consequences are and how we can possibly influence them. This means that, in addition to the studies we are currently working on the five different working groups in preparation for decision-making on 1 July, we now have a more comprehensive measurement system. We already had a comprehensive system, but that has now been strengthened and extended. The combination of measurements and investigations must lead to us becoming more and more informed, increasingly able to receive well-founded advice and to take more and more informed decisions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u81	Mrs Mulder has a question on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u82	By "investigations," the Minister probably also means risk analyses. Based on the risk analysis of the Loppersum cluster, the Minister and the SodM decided to reduce 80% there. This decision is also based on data from, inter alia, ARUP and the acceleration data of the KNMI. I am surprised that these data are not yet available to the House of Representatives and not yet to the Minister, while the decision was taken by the Minister at the beginning of last year on the basis of this information for Loppersum. I wonder now what he's waiting for. Or is it a risk analysis based on completely different data?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u83	I don't know what data Mrs. Mulder is referring to. My policy is to be transparent about the available data. If Mrs Mulder indicates what she is missing, I will see how I can provide her with information. I've come to investigate. I think it is necessary to make good decision-making in order to ensure that you have up-to-date and best information. That information can be better, I can see that. That is why I want to see further information on the basis of research, but I also want to know how to assess that information. I've got State surveillance on the mines for that. Mrs Mulder spoke about the weighting of risks. How do you estimate the odds of overrun? Do you have to assume an excess chance of 0.2% or 5% or 10%? There are variations possible. That is also a complicated issue. That is why I would like to be advised separately on how to interpret the data available on that point and how to make them contribute as much as possible to a responsible decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u84	I refer to the risk analyses which the Minister would have liked to receive from the NAM no later than six months after the decision. He said he'd bring it up to May 1st. In fact, there would have been a response from the Minister to his earlier draft decision by mid-year. That's where opinions came in. Last summer, the Minister decided to postpone it a little. At that time, we had a debate with each other in October. One reason to delay was to receive the risk analyses from the NAM. The Minister said he wants those risk analyses on 1 January. The SodM made its own calculations at the end of 2013. We have also received a report on this. It has therefore also made a risk analysis of the effects on the Loppersum cluster. The question was: how many people are at risk there?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u85	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u86	There's all these graphs. It's quite complicated, but the core is the question of what about the buildings in the area and what about the acceleration rates. The KNMI has those numbers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u87	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u88	My question is: if the SodM was able to make that for Loppersum then why aren't those data for the rest of the area at the moment? That while the data is essentially there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u89	I don't know what Mrs. Mulder is referring to. I guess that's me. I'll find out what's going on. My line is that the information that is available should also be available so that everyone can respond to it and take note of it. That's how I approach it. The reason we postponed it is the earthquake at Ten Boer, which for the first time involves Groningen. I have said that I want an analysis that shows what is going on and what we should do with it. I've been given that more detailed analysis and advice. Then I made the decision that we have just discussed in detail. So I will see what Mrs Mulder thinks is available and has not been published. Then I will apply my main line to that, namely that relevant information should be available. So I'll deal with that as well. I'm coming to the National Coordinator Groningen. What needs to be done to strengthen the area is a huge task. Several scenarios have been considered. In any case, thousands and thousands of homes must be strengthened and strengthened. That is a far-reaching process. For a part of the homes this can be done in a fairly simple way. For another part, that's pretty far-reaching. So that has a huge impact. This not only has a huge impact on every family involved, because that can no longer just live in his home as we all do in the Netherlands. You need to get out of your house temporarily. The house needs to be handled and then you can go back, just to be put in the same situation as the rest of the people in the Netherlands. So that is a very far-reaching process. A great deal will have to be done around it in order to make it work properly and to ensure that it also has added value for the people in the end. If we can combine this with the project Power acceleration, by also doing something about the energy efficiency of the house, that's fine. If we can combine it with village renewal, which improves the quality of the environment, that is also fine. So we will have to look very closely at how we can make all the efforts we have to do in terms of strengthening, fast, socially responsible and careful. There's got to be someone with power on it. Moreover, it must be a person who is seen as one of the municipalities, of the province and of the Empire. We are all involved, but we all want results. You can achieve that by assigning some of your powers to the national coordinator Groningen. Because he would then have been given a mandate, he could ensure that the necessary performance was carried out in terms of both due diligence and quality and speed. That's what we agreed on. Last time, I was able to conclude an administrative agreement with the province and the municipality of Groningen on all the measures that had to be taken in connection with the earthquakes. Now we have reached an additional administrative agreement. That is what this national coordinator is part of and I will do very much to get them to work as quickly as possible and to do what is needed in that area.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u90	The Minister is talking about strengthening damaged homes. People have to leave their homes for months, the minister himself said. Now a lot of people have been trapped in their unsaleable home for a number of years, because it has been damaged. Isn't it much more convenient to just offer these people a buyout arrangement? They won't have to leave their apartment for months. The costs are also high...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u91	You explained that in your contribution. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u92	It's not just about strengthening damaged homes. It is about strengthening homes that are at risk of being damaged, homes that are to be considered weak and that need to be strengthened. Some of those homes will be damaged. Others do not, but all those homes for which this is necessary will need to be strengthened. I will now go into the so-called buy-out scheme that Mrs Klever spoke about, but if you wish, Madam President, I can also go into that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u93	I think that's wise.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u94	Then I will. As far as the buy-out scheme is concerned, I believe that we should, above all, act in this respect with respect for the Eastern Groningen region. That's not just an area where you can say: people, get out of there and make it a nature reserve. It is an area where people have grown up for generations, where there is their entire social environment, where people are proud of, and what still has a future of hundreds and thousands of years after natural gas extraction. That area is as valuable as the Green Heart or areas in Limburg or in Brabant. This means that it is my task to ensure that people can continue to live in that area in a responsible way and with sufficient safety and enjoyment of life. So I do not want us to set up something where all the people there are, as it were, provoked to leave that area. Never mind that, as Mr Öztürk suggested, I would like to make it a policy for everyone to disappear there. What I do want is to consider whether the worse functioning housing market in that area, compared to so-called reference areas, can be made into a normal housing market and whether a buy-back scheme can contribute to this and, if so, in what form. I think that is the case, but that should be an arrangement that respects the area and the social cohesion of the area, a system that will preserve the area for the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u95	I don't deny that the vast majority of the Groningen people probably prefer to just stay in their own home in Groningen. Let's leave that out of the question. However, there are also people sitting there in a damaged house, people who want to leave for other reasons, for example because they want to accept a job somewhere else, because they want to live together, maybe because they have a house in store, which means they have two houses. These people are all trapped in their own homes and can't leave, because their homes are hardly worth anything because of the earthquakes. Is the Minister prepared to offer this group of people a buy-out arrangement? That does not need to be investigated, as I said in my contribution. It already exists, for example for Moerdijk and for people living under high voltage towers. Is the Minister prepared not to keep these people, who want to leave, captive against their will in their own homes?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u96	We already have an arrangement which provides that, if there is a loss on a property in the sense that a lower price is obtained for it than would have been the case in a reference area, the difference will be adjusted. This system can be improved, especially at the start of the sales process. If someone hires a sworn broker and gives a sales order, and that broker starts working on that assignment, an assessment of the value of that property must be made. The seller may then take this into account. Suppose he sells the property and has done his best to get the best possible price for it, but there is still a difference with the originally determined value. This could result in compensation being given at the end of that process in the order of magnitude of the difference. So in order to make that work better, we are going to improve this in the way I have just outlined. A valuation and valuation will therefore be made possible at the beginning of the process. Furthermore, we will investigate what to do with, among other things, a buy-back scheme. There is already a buy-back scheme for special cases. In special cases, therefore, housing is already being purchased. How can we design a buy-back scheme in such a way that the negative aspects I mentioned do not arise, but that the positive effect is achieved, namely an improvement in the housing market to the level of the reference areas? That's how I approach it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u97	I have two questions about strengthening the houses. The Minister writes: the aim is therefore to strengthen the houses where there is an acute security risk, a risk once every 1,000 years, in 2015. If you add the appendix, it turns out to be 30 homes. It would be the aim to achieve the strengthening of these homes in 2015? It seems to me that the Minister should be able to guarantee that. The report also includes 1,000 to 2,000 houses which must be strengthened in the shortest possible time. The Minister does not refer to this in his letter. Can he guarantee that they will be dealt with this year as well? That is the first question. My second question is about...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u98	Let us let the Minister answer that first question first, Mrs Van Veldhoven. There are two questions to this first question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u99	I agree with Mrs Van Veldhoven that the strengthening of these 30 houses should take place this year. She's also talking about those 1,000 to 2,000 homes. These are 1,500 houses which should also be classified as weak. This year capacity will be set up to strengthen 3,000 homes on an annual basis. To this end, a programme is being developed at the Safe Living Centre. I think it is necessary to start with the weakest homes in the core area. This means that a large part of these homes will also have to be tackled.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u100	If 3,000 houses can be strengthened in a year, then the Minister must be able to secure the strengthening of these 1,500 houses within that year. That advice is not for nothing. The Minister just stressed the extent to which he was following all these opinions. There is a reason for this opinion: this is a category which must be strengthened in the shortest possible time. Those houses are actually very close to the 1,000. They may be just underneath, but they are almost as dangerous as those 30 homes the Minister says about: we must indeed guarantee that these houses will be strengthened this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u101	Yes, but there are 1,500 households. These people are confronted with the fact that they should leave their homes for a certain period of time. They must therefore be offered an alternative. If you're gonna amplify so many houses, you're gonna have to get a good look at how you're gonna do it. You should also take into account the shrinkage and aspects of village renewal. What can you do to make the village better? How can you talk to these people? It's not that easy to get all this going. Let's not talk too easily about this reinforcement operation. We are now going to talk to the people about the first 50 homes in Loppersum. How exactly can we handle it? Then we have to take a step by involving the housing corporations. Then it can happen on a larger scale. We have capacity for these 3,000 homes this year, but it still needs to be put into practice. So it is not easy to say something about between 1,000 and 2,000 homes that are being dealt with this year. We will consider what we can do to the maximum within the limits of care. It should also take into account what can be carried by the people and by the villages. However, I agree with Mrs van Veldhoven that these are the houses where first and foremost results must be achieved as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u102	I have also understood from the pieces that there is really fast-paced work on strengthening the houses. That has to be done. I have two questions about it. The risk of a more severe tremor is once every ten years. I see now at what rate the houses are being strengthened. I understand that care must be taken in this regard. I see huge numbers. There are 35,000 weakest homes in 5 years. Is that pace high enough, given the risk we're running? Mrs Van Veldhoven has identified specific categories that are at the top. I understand it all has to be careful, but I urge the Minister to speed up. Is this tempo enough? Could he take the county and the municipalities to see where they can get a tooth?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u103	We'll find out where the base of the area is. You have to realize what all this is going to mean: 35,000 homes in five years. That is truly unprecedented. 20,000 homes are also unprecedented. We also need that national coordinator. We will have to see what we can do in a responsible way, to keep society together. It must be a process for people to accept. I am well aware that these large numbers of homes are a huge task. We are therefore setting up an intergovernmental administration in that area, led by that national coordinator, who is given powers through a mandate. I believe that this is absolutely necessary in order to ensure that this process is conducted properly. At the moment, I do not want to comment on the numbers that can be achieved within five years. I would first like to see how we can get things going this year and what our experiences are.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u104	I have just mistakenly mentioned the number of 35,000 homes. My colleague told me that 23,000 homes were involved. Part of the task remains, over the next five years, while the risk of earthquake is considerable. During this debate there was another earthquake in Hoogezand. We're being pushed right into the facts. Something really needs to be done. And then when we see how the pace is... I agree with the Minister that we need to be careful, because this really means something to the area. Shouldn't we do everything we can to increase the pace? The risk is high and we are dealing with a housing stock that is not earthquake-proof.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u105	Yes, we must do everything we can, but it must be for the people and the community to bear. That is where we must look for the border that is acceptable to the people. If it had to come from this alone, it wouldn't be good. We have already talked about the extent of gas extraction. In the first half of the year, this will be 16.5 billion m. We're talking about 35 billion m for this year, as an option. So if this were to become a reality, you would have a substantial difference from the level of the past five to ten years. I think we are working in two ways towards the solution: on the one hand strengthening the houses, on the other hand reducing gas extraction. Thirdly, compensatory measures must be taken to take account of the population affected by earthquakes and house renovations. There's got to be something to that. That is what the compensatory measures are for. That's what we agreed on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u106	Whatever measures the Minister is taking, the earthquakes remain. During this debate there was another earthquake, I heard. People feel trapped in the environment where they are. The buyout scheme isn't working properly. There are long procedures, so people can't take a step. Is the Minister prepared to investigate the question of the citizens who really want to leave and how we can extend the buy-out arrangements so that those people who have to live every day with the fear of an earthquake can move to other areas? It's about moving voluntarily now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u107	Yes, I just heard Mr Öztürk say that he wants to turn it into a nature reserve.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u108	That comes in my second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u109	Now he's coming up with another question. I can say that I have agreed with the province and the municipalities to shape the buy-back scheme in such a way that it contributes to the creation of a normal housing market, while preserving the cohesion and social structure of the area. I'd like to check that out.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u110	In my opinion, the Minister's plans remain to give people a little more sense of security. We need to get these people home right away. They get a little more security, but it is and remains false safety. I think that the Minister should not be so bathing about our proposal to support those who want to move from areas where in the end a huge number of tremors will take place. When I hear the minister like that, he wants to send the people back to Groningen with a little sense of security and no more than that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u111	I didn't propose to turn it into a nature reserve. Mr Öztürk has done so, so I can quote him on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u112	That's not an answer to my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u113	You didn't ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u114	Yes, I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u115	Mrs Van Veldhoven, a brief question. A lot of questions have been asked and the Minister hardly gets to answer them because of the interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u116	There are also many questions to ask. I'll come back to the vulnerable houses. It says here that if you have a risk of around once every 1,000 years, the house or the building, in the eyes of the steering committee, must be strutted or evacuated immediately. If you ask people if they prefer to have other shelter or the roof on their head, the answer will be fairly easy. I think the Minister is being rather light on the 1,000 to 2,000 houses the steering committee says need action in the shortest possible time. I would particularly like to urge the Minister to ensure that this is prioritised within the 3,000 houses he was planning to do in that first year. My question is about the total number of houses.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u117	I'd like to respond directly to this. Mrs Van Veldhoven put it this way, but the houses where the risk is once every 1,000 years are those there are 30 of them need to be dealt with immediately. The 1,000 to 2,000 houses mentioned by Mrs Van Veldhoven are weak houses that also need to be addressed as soon as possible. We are therefore starting with the reinforcement programme in the core area, aimed at the weakest houses. That is what we are working through and that means that the 1,000 to 2,000 houses are coming into the picture as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u118	I can only quote from the report: of the 35,000 houses, between 1,000 and 2,000 houses, the level of safety is very low, in the direction of 1 in 1,000. If there is 1 in 1,000, the report says: immediately strut or evacuate. I would therefore ask the Minister to pay particular attention to this category, which I did not see in his letter. Between the lines, I can tell he's willing to do that. What does the Minister intend to do in total? In total, at least 35,000 houses need to be dealt with, because they represent a risk of less than 1 in 10,000. In five years, the minister is going to hit 3,000 plus four times 5,000 houses, a total of 23,000. There'll be 15,000 houses left. We cannot do everything at once, but is the Minister prepared to draw up a ten-year plan to tackle all these houses, so that no one is left with an empty perspective?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u119	Mrs Van Veldhoven and I agree that the 30 houses that only meet the standard of once every 1,000 years should be dealt with immediately. The other 1,000 to 2,000 houses also need the utmost attention. The estimate we are currently making is a total of 35,000 houses. I want to realize as much of that as possible, but I do not want to cross the border of what is to be carried for the area. I welcome Mrs Van Veldhoven's suggestion to make longer-term planning for this. I will discuss with the National Coordinator Groningen whether it makes sense to do so or whether it makes more sense to do so for a period of five years. I'm open in there. How many houses it becomes and how many houses we can tackle at the same time depends on how the norm develops and what experiences we gain in strengthening the houses. In any case, I am convinced that we need a large-scale approach as soon as possible. We need to release industrial systems, make maximum use of housing corporations and discuss it in the context of village renewal. It's the art of keeping the residents around.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u120	So there are 35,000 houses in which Groningers are ten times more at risk than Dutch people in their homes elsewhere in the Netherlands. The Minister is not prepared to talk about this in the previous debate on the interruption, so that we can make every effort to bring gas extraction back as far as possible. He says further here I understand that it is a major operation to strengthen so many houses. The people have to get out, the houses have to be converted, the standards have not yet been set, there are many individual houses and there are hardly any plans for them. How many houses have been strengthened since 2013 and how many houses does the Minister think he will get strengthened and secure this year?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u121	I don't know exactly how many have been strengthened, but it's a small number. I know that capacity will be available this year to tackle 3,000, at different levels of reinforcement. I also know that we still need to get this process going. It's not that easy to get that process going. I don't want to pretend like I'm just gonna make this happen. This is a very big and heavy task but an absolutely necessary one. We must get it going quickly, but also responsibly, and we must keep the population alive. In order for that process to succeed, we first set up the Centre for Safe Living. Now we come with a public service led by a national coordinator. A united cooperation between governments, housing corporations and residents must lead to a sufficient pace.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u122	Even if the Minister managed to break down 3,000 houses in the second half of this year, rebuild metal skeletons, throw concrete in, let people out and back in, and so on, then at the end of this year 32,000 houses remain in which the Groningers are ten times more at risk than in the rest of the Netherlands. The Minister said earlier that he has no arguments to further reduce this gas extraction. Isn't that an argument to further reduce this gas extraction?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u123	We have just spoken about the return of gas extraction. I believe that both the reduction of gas extraction and the strengthening of the houses are at issue, and rightly so. I'm not going to do the discussion about gas extraction again. However, I believe that with these houses we should achieve as much results as possible and as soon as possible, focusing on the numbers that are the objective. I really mean that. However, I believe that this should be done in such a way as to keep the population alive. I would point out to the Chamber that this is going to be quite a lift.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u124	I asked the Minister in my first term if he could involve the inhabitants in a good way. If things in Groningen are dealt with so widely, he should not just inform people about how things are going. For example, agricultural entrepreneurs, but also other people from the region have plans. I also mentioned the Association of Own Houses. How does the Minister intend to give way to such initiatives?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u125	I believe that there must be much possible, both in terms of innovation and inventive ways of working on the problem and in terms of involving the population. If the population does not feel that the way we do it is right and that the end result is also in its interest and in the interests of the area, then we cannot do it. The people must support this whole process. I have two things to do: I have to make sure that I get and keep the population, but I also have to keep pace and achieve sufficient scale. There's tension in that. You can't keep talking about individual cases for too long and still achieve large-scale results, but you can't get those results if you don't involve people. The search for a balance is an important task for the national coordinator.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u126	That's a nice little bridge to those individual cases. I would now like to talk to the Minister in particular about the harrowing cases. I hear from people that they do get an offer, but that, in their opinion, this does not do justice to the situation they came from when they were not affected by the earthquakes. This is often also about the social problems involved. How do we get perspective for these people again? In my opinion, it is not being handled generously enough. How can the Minister make an effort to ensure that these people are clear? How can the Minister ensure that he knows, and we with him, that these people are satisfied? I find it really poignant. The minister may have been at people's homes who happened to him. We, as MPs, have done the same. I ask the Minister to look at it generously, because things are not going well at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u127	A single spokesperson said that it was just bullshit and that the whole stuff we rigged should be wiped off the table and that we should do it differently. We have, among other things, rigged a special case commission. He also has a budget to get through. We have an independent counselor who can be brought in. We got the Tcbb. This can be used to provide technical advice. I think that we have already built up a whole system that can work well, especially when we realise that people need to be cared for in a number of cases. Some can deal with this type of problem and also see a challenge in it. Luckily, you have those people, too. However, there are also people who really look up to it and cannot deal with it as others do. Those people must also be helped throughout the process and must therefore be taken care of. We have to deal with these people. I also think that this is an important task for the national coordinator. He and his people must ensure that those who feel mugged and who cannot handle it are helped. They must be given the support they are entitled to.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u128	I would like to sigh here: doesn't the Minister really understand? I hear him saying that it's hard to strengthen those houses, that the population needs to be kept in mind and that it's a difficult operation. That's right. For Groningers, it's not a gift. It's a necessary evil they're not waiting for.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u129	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u130	They're not waiting for them to leave their homes so that they can be strengthened. Doesn't the Minister really understand that people can wear that better if they feel that the gas tap is closing as far as it takes to take their safety seriously and that this strengthening doesn't happen for nothing?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u131	I've just had the discussion with the Chamber about the gas tap. I don't think it makes sense to do it again. Two things have to be done. We need to look at the volume of gas extraction and at strengthening the houses. Thirdly, we also need to look at what needs to be done as compensation. I can see why people didn't ask for it. They are faced with it and we will therefore have to make it acceptable to them by the way we handle gas extraction and the way we apply compensatory measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u132	I just don't understand why the Minister refuses to make a connection between the feeling that we can give the Groningen away and the misery they have to endure to get their homes strengthened. I just don't get it. The Minister himself acknowledges that it is very important to keep the population involved and that it is not a nice process, but then he wants to see that separately from the signal that The Hague sends to the Groningers. Isn't that the only way to go through a process that's a little bit of a good feeling when you're sure your government has done the best it can to reduce the risk of damage to your home? Come on, everybody gets that!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u133	Why are you suggesting this isn't happening? The last decision on the extent of the extraction of gas is in accordance with the opinion of the State Monitoring of Mines. In addition, we will reconsider this on 1 July. We're putting an alternative in the picture. In the alternative, we will make it possible to implement it retroactively by already reducing gas extraction to a level of 16.5 billion m. On 1 January next we will see if we can take a further step by moving to a whole new system. Mrs Ouwehand summarizes this as follows: the Groningers get the feeling that nothing is happening. I don't think that's a good representation of reality.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u134	The Minister just referred to the qualification "priest talk." I gave that qualification to the process that has taken place around involving or not involving some communities in the supplementary administrative agreement. Why did I say that? Of course, that didn't affect all those people who work so hard in Groningen to strengthen or restore homes or to improve the process. I gave that qualification because some people with earthquake damage do not live in the area designated in the supplementary agreement. Therefore, they are not covered by the measures for the inhabitants affected by earthquake damage. In other words, these people suffer from earthquakes and live in that area, but because their residential area is not covered by the agreement, they do not receive the assistance and support other people receive. That's what I've qualified as administrative bullshit. My question to the Minister is: are those 500 people who do not live in that area just being helped properly? After all, they are suffering from these earthquakes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u135	Let us note for a moment that the people who are outside the core area of the nine municipalities, that core area, was the basis for the governance agreement we concluded over a year ago, will be compensated for all the damage. The preventive measures to be taken shall also apply to them. Mr Vos talks about the sum of 125 million that we have earmarked to increase the value of houses. This has been transformed into a scheme that is currently in force, but will be changed. At the moment, however, the scheme applies that from a damage of €1,000 an extra amount of €4,000 will be available for depreciation of your home, for example in the form of insulation or other measures to make your home more energy efficient. Under the administrative agreement, that scheme applies only to those nine municipalities. If, on the basis of an administrative agreement, I have made money available to nine municipalities, I cannot just give that money to everyone. It can't be. That's not bullshit. I have decisions to implement, and I have to do so in a way that is too accountable. I did say I'm gonna do things differently from now on. First of all, I am going to involve the municipalities of Hoogezand-Sappemeer and Menterwolde because it appears that there have been more earthquakes there. We are therefore taking a measure to reduce the extraction of gas there. That is why we are now going to do the same for these two municipalities as for the original nine municipalities in terms of the increase in value and the Commission's special cases. I also said for the whole of Groningen that it might be better to start from a outline plan, instead of saying: here runs the municipal border; if you live outside, you will not be eligible for that extra €4,000 and if you live in it. I think it is useful to examine whether we should not switch to another system, based not on the municipal boundaries, but on where the contours of the risks run. I'm gonna go with the county and the municipalities and see if we can switch to a contouring system. Then there will be a modified arrangement. I will also look into whether the people who are now outside the scheme because they live outside those nine municipalities can apply for this new scheme retroactively. It is therefore not mere talk, but it is the implementation of a decision and the willingness to improve that decision, so that it is more reasonable than it is estimated by the province, the municipalities and myself at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u136	May I summarize it as follows? With the Minister's new outline plan, if you suffer from those earthquakes, you fall under the regime that applies to people who get compensation for those earthquakes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u137	If we change to that outline plan, I'm gonna find out. You're gonna be covered by the new scheme, which still needs to be set up. The line of that new scheme will be to bring the additional amount to be paid more into line with the amount of damage. That was my answer on preventive reinforcement. A few have referred to the city of Groningen. Although only one earthquake was felt in the city of Groningen, the impact on the city was of course great. The situation in the city is also very different from that in the surrounding countries. A lot of facilities for Groningen as a whole concentrate in the city. Those are large-scale facilities. If anything happens to it, it will have a major impact on the whole province, including the surrounding countries. So we have established that two things must be done with regard to the city of Groningen. First of all, we need to look at whether the city of Groningen, if we are doing what we are preparing now, know its effects and have further data available on the standard to be applied, is still at risk of earthquake at that time. If that is the case, we will have to take this into account specifically in relation to the city of Groningen. Until we know whether this is indeed the case or perhaps not, we need to keep pace with the ongoing projects in Groningen in the interim period. We have made available a provisional budget of 50 million. That budget can be used to keep the momentum going, as I said. As soon as there is clarity, it will become clear whether that budget may not be entirely necessary or whether more is needed. That will be discussed at that time. I'm coming to work for the construction workers. One of the spokesmen, I am not ready for who it was, for which I apologize: all the work must be done in a proper manner in that area. I very much agree with that. There is a great deal of work to be done in the area. The Centre Secure Living becomes a very large client for contractors. We must ensure that these contractors treat their employees in a proper manner and that they deliver the required quality in their work. The Safe Living Centre will therefore set up a certification system. One of the things that is judged whether or not contractors receive a certificate is how they deal with employees and working conditions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u138	I also made a specific request to the Minister. It is, of course, wonderful that all this work will be done for our construction workers, but it is not intended that illegal work will then take place there. Trade union FNV in particular has called for a lot of attention to be paid to this, partly because of the abuses that have occurred in the past. My request to the Minister was this. Is he prepared to enter into talks with the union to ensure that all processes that fail there are detected and addressed in a timely and appropriate manner?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u139	Sure. I believe that if the public authorities are to spend huge sums of money in the construction sector, they must also ensure that they are properly spent. This includes compliance with the rules. We want to achieve this through the certification system. I am certainly prepared to discuss this system and its application with the trade union movement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u140	I thank the Minister for this commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u141	We have talked about the housing market, but I have already talked about it during an interruption. There has been talk of the buying-in scheme and the increase in value. Almost all spokesmen spoke about reversing the burden of proof. Like the other spokesmen, Mrs Mulder raised this issue. I'll start with her point. I do not see how reversal of the burden of proof could improve people in Groningen. There is no discussion on the causal link between gas extraction and damage. The earthquakes are caused by the gas extractions and they cause damage. This means that the person carrying out the gas extractions, the NAM, is responsible for compensating for the damage. For the way that should be organized, we have engaged the Centre for Safe Living. So there's no discussion about that. If there's any damage anywhere, a damage expert will be sent there. It happens every time. That damage expert will record the damage and draw up a report on it. If the resident disagrees, he can apply for a counterexpertise on behalf of the NAM. An arrangement was then made in the event of disagreement between the two experts, so that a decision is finally taken. In addition, those who have damage can also consult the Technical Committee on Soil Movement for advice. This means that there is no problem in practice in this area. It is all done in a way that fully respects the interests of the people. After everything I have mentioned, there is ultimately also the judge who, if there is any discussion about the burden of proof, can divide on the basis of reasonableness and fairness and even reverse the burden of proof. So the possibilities are already there at the moment. The existing regime is satisfactory. I see no advantage in reversing the burden of proof.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u142	Let me give you an example. It's exemplary for a lot of buildings I've seen. A farm has suffered damage and someone is coming to see the damage. There are, so to speak, whole walls loose. Those people are freaked out when they're visiting. They wonder what's going on there. And then it doesn't end up adequately in the report. The damage seems to be too great. And then I think: the moment you reverse the burden of proof, the NAM has to prove that things are different. Now it's all in the hands of these people. I'm deeply ashamed of the way things are going now. That we have to deal with the people in Groningen like this! If the reversal of the burden of proof can provide a solution to these issues, then I think it is very worthwhile to look urgently at them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u143	"Then someone will come to see the damage." Mrs. Mulder and I know there's an expert on the way. An expert is being sent somewhere. He looks at the situation and draws up a report on it. It's possible the resident doesn't agree with that. Then he can have another expert prepare another report. The costs are borne by the NAM. If the resident disagrees with the results of these two investigations, then there is also an arrangement to make the decision. Meanwhile, this resident can also go to the Technical Committee on Soil Movement to be assisted in the technical field. So we've developed a good system for that. If problems arise in individual cases, people can contact the independent counselor, who can then give a ruling on them. I do not deny what Mrs Mulder says, I take that very seriously. I believe that we have a system for achieving satisfactory settlement in such situations. If we now turn the burden of proof back, I do not see any improvement in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u144	In our view, it strengthens the position of the person experiencing the nuisance. I think it is very worthwhile to take that step together. I hope the Minister will consider what possibilities there are. It also works this way abroad, in the countries around us. We hope that this can be a solution to all the problems facing the Groningen people. One of the colleagues in the chair also mentioned it: we were in a village...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u145	Yeah, but you already said that. I'm trying to give you the space to ask questions. You have been able to make an extensive speech. I'd like you to ask your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u146	Yeah, but there's so many people running into this place. They're getting over it too fast.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u147	There are still a lot of Members of Parliament who are ready to ask questions on this same point. I'd like you to ask your question. That's an opportunity I'm offering you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u148	Would the Minister look at this option when dealing with the Mining Act?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u149	I have indicated that I am convinced that the way we work today will not improve if we turn the burden of proof. Mrs Mulder asks me to see if I can learn anything from abroad and to include these conclusions in the Mining Act. I'm prepared to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u150	That is appropriate, because I have already tabled an amendment to that Mining Act. The Minister must come up with very strong arguments as to why we should not accept it. Otherwise, I propose that the Chamber do what Provincial States in Groningen have done, which is to say unanimously that it is enough. The Minister is the only one who doesn't think it's gonna improve. I'll tell the minister what the improvement is.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u151	I'd like you to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u152	I have been rather limited in the interruptions, but this is a crucial point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u153	Yes, but I'd like you to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u154	I'd like to introduce the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u155	But I'd like you to do that briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u156	I'm trying to keep it as short as I can. I would like to thank the Minister for his commitment to make an international comparison of the situation in other countries with regard to mining law, so that we can involve them in dealing with the Mining Act and our amendment. I would like to say to the Minister that the improvement is a relief from the people who are saddled with damage why they have not asked for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u157	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u158	I would like the Minister's recognition that these feces are a wish that we all share and the recognition that, if the burden of proof lies with the NAM, citizens who are faced with this damage will be relieved, so that they do not have to run for compensation themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u159	I am convinced that the NAM is sending a good valuer there. There's not just anyone being sent. Those are good valuers. Then there is the possibility to make a counterexpertise on behalf of the NAM. We have an arrangement to settle in the event of disagreement and we have an arrangement to request technical assistance from the Technical Committee on Soil Movement. We also have as an outlet once again the independent counsellor where one can go. Apart from all that, there's the judge. I am convinced that we have a careful system in which reversal of the burden of proof cannot improve. I have promised Mrs Mulder that I will see what experience there is abroad and whether we can learn anything from it. I will involve the information I collect in the treatment of the Mining Act. I am not saying that I would believe that the Chamber should adopt the Old-Hand amendment. I have carefully formulated how I want to do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u160	Then we would like to receive that information from the Minister within two months so that we can deal with the Mining Act before the May recess and adopt the amendment. Finally, I would like to say to the Minister that he is the only one who has this conviction. In the hearing we heard exhaustively, including from the minister's party in the Provincial States in Groningen, that the current situation leaves citizens in the cold. The people in Groningen themselves, who form the government and the parliament, who are close to it and conclude that the current system is not working, ask this minister to take care of it. Take that with you in the search.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u161	I have argued why I believe that there is no improvement to be expected by reversing the burden of proof. I made a commitment to Mrs Mulder. Mrs Ouwehand asks if I can do that in two months' time. I'm gonna do that in two months.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u162	I would like to know what the Minister is now so afraid of in reversing the burden of proof. Is that indeed the NAM of all the money it has made in recent years has to spend a little more on the residents? The Minister says it's well arranged. One does not look for a new hobby there in Groningen, one has to walk five steps. What is the Minister afraid of? Is that perhaps the cost to the NAM something if the burden of proof is reversed?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u163	I'm not afraid of anything at this point. All I want is for there to be an optimal arrangement. I am convinced that the regulation currently in place is optimal and that there is no improvement to be expected from a reversal of the burden of proof. It's just a business review.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u164	This Minister is already very good at this whole debate to repeat how he sees it, rather than giving an answer. The only risk of reversing the burden of proof is that there could be more costs for the NAM. But this is the minister who's there for the people, isn't it, the Minister for the Shell?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u165	Why is it now said that I do not give an answer when I say that there is a capable valuer going from the NAM? That if the resident disagrees with that, who can ask another valuation by another valuer on behalf of the NAM? That if they disagree and the resident is not satisfied, another knot can be cut? He can be technically assisted. He can go to the independent counsel. Then Mrs Van Tongeren's summary is that I am not answering.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u166	I welcome the Minister's commitment to Mrs Mulder, but I would like to point out that he would spare himself a lot of trouble if he were more receptive to this. There are quite a lot of cases in Groningen, which I visited myself, of people who wanted to move for example and got a good broker's report. Then there was a quake where cracks occurred. There was then a damage expert who said that there was late maintenance. That's not one example, there are a lot of them. We have a province with which things have not been going so well economically lately and where there are very large buildings, which indeed have a crack here and there. So why not make that leap at once, in a plan that you would still like to have with the province, for a future as energy province that lives and thrives again? Then this is also a nice handle to make that happen faster.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u167	Rear maintenance is a real problem, but reversal of the burden of proof is not the answer. You own a building that needs reinforcement. If you have overdue maintenance in that property, you can decide as owner-inhabitant to what extent you want to maintain it. So you have overdue maintenance in that property, then there will be reinforcement of that property and there will be doing everything that includes that overdue maintenance, which one has done himself while another hasn't. Whoever didn't do it will get it through the reinforcement operation. That's not considered reasonable. That is also the reason why a number of reinforcements are not being implemented at the moment because they are being discussed. We talked about this together with the province and the municipality. We have found that if someone has chosen not to do any late maintenance, for example because he himself does not have any money for that at the time, then the reinforcement should never stand in the way. So then all this work is done anyway and the overdue maintenance is eliminated, but it is determined what the amount of the overdue maintenance is. This is financed by the fund. If that property is sold once, that part of the overdue maintenance financed by the fund will be returned to the fund. That is the solution for the delayed maintenance that is part of the supplementary administrative agreement. That is separate from this question from the alleged benefit of reversing the burden of proof.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u168	I'd like to question that. There's a pile of shit in the county. If you change the law, you're out of it, because then a tear is a tear. It will be repaired or the building strengthened preventively, whatever it takes. The province therefore has a new future. Now we're dealing with all kinds of bulldozers, expertise and counterexpertise, all kinds of stories of people who don't know what to do anymore and want to be cared for. You would be doing yourself a tremendous service by now, by adapting that law in such a way, solving this problem at once. We also note that all neighbouring countries have already implemented this legislation in this way. Well, then I guess this is a piece of cake.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u169	I shall leave the latter on Mr Smaling's behalf. It remains to be seen whether this is the case. I don't think that's true. The damage is in most cases agreed. A report of the damage shall be drawn up and an amount shall be fixed. It'll be settled further. In most cases, that goes well. If it does not go well in certain cases, there may be several reasons for this. One cannot agree with the assessment. For those cases, what I have just said applies. I believe that I have provided both the issue of late maintenance and the point of not being useful in reversing the burden of proof.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u170	I'll come back to the late maintenance. During the work visit to Groningen we spoke with a lady who had put her house for sale. She had reports drawn up for the purpose of the sale. Then the earthquakes came and she never lost her house. Next, the NAM told this lady that there was late maintenance of her home. For me, this example is exemplary, because in such a case who determines exactly what is the situation with regard to late maintenance? In this case, the lady concerned had everything in order, if we can believe her, so it becomes difficult.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u171	At some point it will be necessary to determine whether there is any delay in maintenance. If we do not agree with that, we must look at how to find a solution. It is precisely the problems that have arisen with regard to late maintenance that Mrs Mulder cites as an example of this that has led us to say that this discussion should not prevent the strengthening of it. In cases where people have chosen to deal with the maintenance as they have done, because they cannot afford that maintenance at the moment, it has to be done, after which the settlement takes place at the time of any sale. I believe that we have found a good solution to this in the supplementary administrative agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u172	That agreement makes it absolutely clear where people can go if they do not agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u173	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u174	During the discussion of the Mining Act in 2003, my group, the PvdA Group, tabled an amendment which deals precisely with what we have just discussed, namely the reversal of the burden of proof. I have read well what the Minister wrote to the Chamber. I understand that there are objections to such a procedure. The amendment was voted down by the majority of the Chamber at the time, but now the situation is different. There is now a majority in favour of such an amendment. I do not want to disrupt the process initiated by the Minister in Groningen, on the basis of which he tries very carefully in all manner of ways to help the people there, but all the MPs who have been in Groningen have found that there are a lot of residents who are not being helped very well. We really must have a different situation before the end of the year, otherwise I feel compelled to table an amendment on the reversal of the burden of proof. I hope that it is clear to all those concerned that the word 'beautiful' should not only be spoken out, but must also be translated into action.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u175	I believe that the procedure I have described is a generous procedure which can lead to a good outcome. We will have to monitor whether this is indeed the case or whether there are bottlenecks. If bottlenecks arise, they must be resolved. If anything can be learned from abroad, we will collect the relevant information and involve it in the treatment of the Mining Act. If Mr Vos thinks that he can reach certain conclusions and wishes to express them by tabling an amendment at the time, then I would like to leave that consideration to him. For my part, I will do the necessary preparatory work and come up with arguments for one or the other during the discussion with the Chamber. Mrs Mulder spoke about involving the region in the initiatives and plans that lie ahead. I have already said that, in my view, it is absolutely necessary to do so, in order to gain the necessary support. This must be done in such a way that we do justice to the scale and pace of events. I have dealt with all the comments made by Mrs Mulder on the extraction and data that she still lacked. The situation around the chemical industry in Delfzijl really needs to be looked at per company. A general analysis has been made and the situation has now to be looked at per company. The companies themselves must take the lead in this respect. We will work together with the companies on this issue. But it goes without saying that we must give the chemical industry there the attention it deserves in relation to the earthquake problem. I have dealt with Mrs Mulder's points.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u176	When, according to the Minister's estimate, was it analysed per company? The risks there are greater for the whole area. I can imagine that this will be given absolute priority. Can the Minister give his assessment on this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u177	I can't control that myself. The knowledge of the processes in a company and the risks lie mainly in the company itself. The company will therefore also have to be active in this. I will inform the Chamber about the progress of that process, about the commitment of both sides and what timetable is realistic. On the next occasion, I will come to that point with information.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u178	Thank you for this commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u179	Mrs Van Veldhoven spoke about using the nitrogen plants for 1 January and what could then be discussed. I've already gone into that. We have also talked about the 30 billion and the 1,000 to 2,000 homes. We also talked about the National Coordinator Groningen. Mrs Van Veldhoven also asked whether there was a perseverance force. The national coordinator is primarily mandated by municipalities, provinces and ministries. He must then exercise those powers. In a large number of cases, it will have to be dealt with. He can do so by expressing his opinion and ensuring that, in conjunction with the mandates he has obtained, whatever needs to be done will happen. We'll follow that. We have agreed with the province and the municipalities that we will look at how this is going and whether it is necessary to come up with a supplementary legal provision. I do not think that is necessary, but it may prove necessary. In case it is necessary, we will also make that legal provision. The point is that the National Coordinator Groningen, to the satisfaction of the municipalities, to the satisfaction of the province and to the satisfaction of the departments and the departments, which is even more important to the satisfaction of the people in the area, ensures that what is needed there is realized.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u180	Perhaps the Minister wanted to say a few things in response to my questions. Then I'll wait and see.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u181	Mrs Van Veldhoven spoke about the Ombudsman who must remain separate. I agree with her. She said one phone number is needed. In any case, I think we should ensure that people are not sent from the locker to the wall. One refers to the NAM, the other to the Safe Living Centre, the third to the National Coordinator and another to the Ombudsman or the Independent Counsel, while another refers to a special committee. That is what makes people crazy, so we will have to coordinate it in such a way, through the national coordinator, that there is one clear point of contact for people. I will see how I can fill that in the context of the functioning of the national coordinator. We have provoked the positive response to the alternative proposals that are being made. We've provoked companies and people to come up with ideas a few times. They are accepted in gratitude and we are looking at what we can do with them. I thought I had answered Mrs van Veldhoven's points.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u182	I have two short questions. I have also talked about the buildings where many people come together and where people stay for a long time: schools, hospitals, nursing homes, nursery homes. Even if these buildings are not the first to be used for reinforcement measures, what could those schools do? What can nursing homes do? What are interim measures that they can now easily take on their own? I very much note in the area that there is a need for some kind of directive, for assistance in this area, so that the drivers can also take their responsibilities. Is the Minister prepared to draw up such a document, at least to help the people there, to help themselves? That was my first question. Shall I put the second one right away?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u183	That's a little tricky for me, Mr. Chairman. Can I answer this question first?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u184	Oh, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u185	The schools, the hospitals, the places where many people come together outside the city of Groningen are covered by the standard for existing construction that we are going to apply, once every 10,000 years. We must therefore work quickly on this. All the schools have been in the picture. Two schools are taking short-term measures. I think that the priorities we have given to the houses are right, but it is clear to me that the places that Mrs van Veldhoven describes should go with them. That's how we're gonna work.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u186	For the sake of clarity, we cannot help everyone at the same time, but in the meantime there may be simple things people can do themselves. Then we can help them help themselves in the meantime. My second question has something to do with the ceiling. If you see the sum of what the national annual gas demand consists of, then this needs to be related, among other things, to gas plants that account for 7 bcm. Now a lot of gas plants are standing still, because the coals are so cheap. What does that do with the total annual ceiling? Part of the buffer requested has to do with the breakdown of technical installations. Does the Minister agree with me that such a buffer, which is only used in the event of a failure of a technical installation, may not have to be 2 bcm per year? Maybe you need to put that amount in a buffer once, so that it can be used, and then only add the buffer when needed. Maybe that could also mean something for what you need annually as a maximum ceiling.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u187	Mrs Van Veldhoven would like to draw particular attention to the way in which gas plants have been included in the ceiling and to the fact that they have been partially out of service. She also asks whether the fact that coal is used in particular at the moment still influences our discussion on that ceiling. I will look into that, and if that leads to a new insight that is interesting for Mrs Van Veldhoven, I will let the Chamber know. That buffer of 2 billion is not only for the production of the nitrogen plants, but also for the transport of the gas. There may be hiccups both at installations and during transport. This means that an alternative solution must be found. Then we're gonna need that 2 billion m a year. That is the real assessment that has been made, and that concerns both the transport and the production of nitrogen. Mr Bosman has drawn attention to the problem of monuments. I too, like Mr Bosman, am concerned about this. You can also imagine how you can work responsibly to strengthen homes, schools and business buildings. But how do you do that with ancient churches and monuments? This is mainly about keeping the character. There is therefore a separate problem. Something special needs to be developed for this. That's what we're gonna do in a hurry. In the first section are all the houses and buildings in which many people come together, such as schools and hospitals. Mrs Van Veldhoven just spoke about this. Then, among other things, these monuments. That is what we really need to do now. A separate approach needs to be developed to this end. I share Mr Bosman's concern on this point. That is why I think it is important that we come quickly with a method of doing so. Mr Bosman said that you should be open to alternatives and innovation. I've already gone into that. The NAM has already written a design competition last summer. There have been a dozen designs that will now be tested. We also started a new building innovation scheme in January. We're going to try out a few dozen houses in practice according to those plans. Furthermore, we will explore how we can apply the method we have developed with Power Acceleration. In this way, we really want to do justice to that innovation. However, I have already told Mr Bosman and the Chamber that I want to continue to monitor progress and the scale of this. Mr Bosman also spoke about joining the research institutes and universities. In this context, he also talked about the many monumental farms and the application of the Monumentenwet. It is very important that we set up a separate knowledge centre in Groningen. That center brings together all the expertise needed to make this kind of thing go well, or to let others sort it out and do it properly. A strategic knowledge agenda will have to be drawn up at that knowledge centre. There must be a tailor-made approach for the monuments. Initiatives are already being taken. I mention the protocol drawn up by the association for Groninger churches. I think that is a very good contribution to this tailor-made approach. We will therefore be happy to take advantage of these initiatives. Mr Bosman also mentioned the city of Groningen. I've already gone into that. The same applies to the administrative agreement. Mr Bosman also said that the decision that we have to take on 1 July must actually be a decision that includes a kind of social cost-benefit analysis. I think he puts that right and sees it well. So if we are going to take that decision, we have an opinion on safety, but we need to go further with that standard that we are going to apply to both the new construction and the existing construction. How do the contours lie down? What exactly is this NPR standard gonna look like? If you have and apply this NPR standard, what are the costs and what are the effects that you can achieve? In my view, it is indeed important that we present this whole picture on 1 July and that it will ultimately lead to an analysis similar to the social cost-benefit analysis. Both Mr Bosman and I will, of course, have safety in mind in the first place, but we want these other things to be reflected in this too. Mrs Klever spoke about the buying-out scheme and about the reversal of the burden of proof. I've already dealt with those cases. She also said that exports should be reduced and that contracts should be opened and force majeure should be invoked. If there were force majeure and I were to call for foreign contracts, I would have to make the same appeal for domestic contracts. I cannot treat customers abroad differently from those in the country. I actually think that's real. Someone who lives just across the border in Germany and is connected to the low-caloric Groningengas, is a German in Germany, but still as important as a Dutchman in the Netherlands. We must also treat the people in other countries who are connected to our low-caloric gas in an appropriate way. These countries will have to switch because our low-caloric gas is running out. They will have to switch to high-caloric gas, which they import from Russia, for example, or to LNG, which they buy in the world. Germany, in particular, will start with this in the year 2021 and will lead the way in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u188	I have here an overview of GasTerra's long-term export obligations. Until 2021, we are obliged to export between 25 and 29 billion cubic cubic metres of low-caloric gas. That's mostly gas from Groningen. What is the Minister going to do to reduce these obligations?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u189	Those are obligations that concern people I've just described. These people are just as dependent on low-caloric Groningengas as the people in the Netherlands. They also need to be treated properly. Apart from that, you have the legal obligations. In contracts with abroad you can rely on force majeure, but then you have to do exactly the same for your domestic customers. I'm not allowed to cut off foreign customers and serve domestic customers. You're gonna have to act in that right away. We haven't concluded any new foreign contracts for some time. Contracts that expire, they expire.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u190	The Minister talks about legal obligations abroad, but the Minister also has the legal obligation to the people in Groningen to guarantee their safety. The Minister pretends that gas is scarce and that the world will end if we reduce gas extraction in Groningen. So it's not. There's an abundance of gas in the world. There is so much gas that the price has fallen 20% compared to the estimates. The minister just doesn't want it because it's about money in this cabinet and not about gas extraction. Just admit it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u191	The price of gas, Mrs Klever says, has fallen by 20%. The price of oil at some point, a few weeks ago, fell by 50%. You can make gas come from abroad. If you let that come from a pipeline, it's usually Russian gas. There is a whole story to think of about the advantages and disadvantages of dependence on Russian gas...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u192	There's Norwegian gas, Canadian gas...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u193	Please continue with your answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u194	... and depend on Russia. You can let the gas come from Russia, but you can question the risks involved. Furthermore, you can have gas discharged in the form of LNG. That's what you need to buy on the world market. That gas is extracted somewhere, liquefied and transported to the Netherlands in a ship. It is then pumped into the system via a terminal. It's all possible. Those possibilities are Russia's gas, gas from other countries, such as Norway, in so far as that country still has gas, and LNG is part of the preparation of the consideration that I am going to make for the decision-making on 1 January 2016.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u195	Mrs. Van Tongeren. Excuse me, I had to turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u196	That's okay, Mr. Chairman. We've all been working on each other a long time. It's still important. The minister says that Germany is already working hard and is turning to high-caloric gas in 2021. In the Netherlands, we use about 15 billion cube for heat that is simply lost. 15 billion cubs! If we go after that with full force, it doesn't have to come from Russia. The gas you don't use costs nothing. We also need to take less out of the Groninger field. Isn't that a much better solution than getting gas from Russia?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u197	That 15 billion is lost is Mrs Van Tongeren's summary. I don't share that. I do think that we should look at ways of making the most of the gas. That is why we need to realise the European Union's ambition to achieve 1.5% per year energy efficiency between now and 2020. That is also what the energy agreement is aimed at. According to the calculations, the measures contained in that agreement will enable us to achieve this important improvement. In addition, the Netherlands has already made considerable progress in terms of energy efficiency.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u198	I think it's two: whether the Netherlands has to accelerate to high-caloric gas, as they do in Germany, and then we can pump less in Groningen. Or we're going to have to go much faster than that 1.5% to make it more economical. We'd like to do both at the same time, because we're stuck on all sides. People can't take any more. The Minister doesn't want to go any further down with the extraction. We don't want gas from Russia. Then there are two options left. GroenLinks, of course, prefers the option that is also most advantageous; to make savings much faster. We have just heard that it is not very easy to break the energy agreement. But is this great misery, this industrial disaster in Groningen not the reason to open the energy agreement and to say: we are going to speed up the rehab of gas, and we are doing so, among other things, out of solidarity with the Groningen people?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u199	The Minister does not want to reduce extraction, which is a summary of what we discussed with each other that I do not share. Mrs Van Tongeren says that you must try to use the gas as efficiently as possible and to use as little gas as possible. I agree with her. I also believe that we should do all the other things that we have just discussed, such as look critically at the size of the extraction. We must also continue with energy efficiency. All these things have to happen. I don't think we can afford not to do one part. We have set ourselves high demands to improve the situation in Groningen, to reduce CO emissions and to comply with the energy agreement. This means that measures must be taken on a broad front, and so does the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u200	Mrs Van Tongeren mentioned the figure of 15 billion. That is not just Mrs Van Tongeren's experience, but that is the result of research that I have also read. This means that there is considerable potential when it comes to housing insulation and reuse of residual heat, whether it is discharged into the air or into open water. You can also see this as a hole in the energy agreement. You can close that now. Because of the situation in Groningen, this also serves an additional purpose. I ask the Minister to look into this and to make use of this opportunity, either by adapting the Heat Act or otherwise, to deal with the problems in Groningen in an extra speedy manner.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u201	I have agreed with the Chamber that I will come up with a heat vision, in which all the possibilities in this area are dealt with. As far as energy efficiency is concerned, we will improve by 1.5% each year until 2020. Two funds have been set up for housing insulation, including 300 million; 75 million public money and 225 million private money. This gives both landlords and residents/owners the opportunity to do insulation. Much needs to be done in this area, but a lot is also happening. Mr Smaling spoke about the Convention on Human Rights, but it is better to keep the right order. I think I have had Mrs Dik-Faber's points.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u202	The Minister has already referred to Mr Bosman's speech, but my question concerns the monuments, the old churches. I felt that Mr Bosman stressed in particular the importance of flexible handling of the Monuments Act, because it helps us to strengthen those buildings. My intention is precisely that we should enforce the Groningen Monument Law and prevent damage. I would like to hear a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u203	Yes, I think we should avoid damage to churches, monuments, business premises, schools, hospitals and houses. We all have to do that, and that is what we are doing. This is what we talk about all the time. I believe that the task we are imposing on ourselves cannot be greater than what we are already doing. Monuments are part of the motivations and the results we need to achieve. Churches are definitely part of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u204	I still want to have named this group, monuments, churches and men's farms, also called the cathedrals of the Groningen landscape as a separate group, because it is very complicated to strengthen or repair those buildings if damage has occurred. How should we deal with this category? Should we not, because it is irreplaceable heritage, look at its economic value as well as its cultural and social value? They're really asking for a special approach. I'd like to hear a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u205	I agree with Mrs Dik-Faber. I also agreed with Mr Bosman when he said the same thing. I think we should develop separate policies for monuments. We have a standard that we apply to homes, schools and hospitals. We involve the combination of business and residential premises, but we need to develop policies for separate business premises as well as for monuments. This must be done quickly. It is a great concern for me to see what is currently happening to the monuments in Groningen. I think that Mrs Dik-Faber and Mr Bosman are right to draw attention to this. Mrs Dik-Faber also talked about energy-efficient construction. I find it attractive, if you are going to invest such large sums of money in strengthening houses in that area, to make use of the opportunities to make savings for the people involved. It is a question of what we can do, if we are going to carry out that reinforcement, to make the homes more comfortable and energy efficient. That must also be part of the whole thing. I have dealt with Mrs Dik-Faber's points. I now come to Mr Smaling. He cited Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights. That article states that every human being has the right to respect for his private life, his family and family life and his home. The policy we are now pursuing with regard to the problem of earthquakes in Groningen is entirely the translation of what is contained in that article. We do what's in that article in Groningen. Mr Smaling also spoke about the amount of 6.5 billion for 35,000 homes. I have already gone into it and indicated that it is already a huge task for the first five years to strengthen 23,000 homes. We need to see how far we can go within the area's support. There's half a billion available. On the basis of the estimates currently available, this will be sufficient until 2017. If this budget is exhausted at some point, additional resources will have to be made available. Mr Smaling said I should show leadership and as an example of my lack of leadership, he cited the situation that I would have awarded Shell a prize for corporate social responsibility in China. In China, the following has occurred. Shell and a Chinese partner have a chain of 170 pumping stations there. One of those pumping stations existed for ten years. Shell has handed a certificate to the four employees of that pumping station, who had worked there for the past ten years, out of respect for the work done by these people during those ten years. I was there and I looked into it. Mr Smaling now says that I have awarded Shell an award for corporate social responsibility. Well, everyone chooses their own words. In any case, I do not think that this is the basis of the claim that I come here with empty words. I don't think I come up with empty words at all. I come here with thoughtful measures, based on the deep conviction that they are necessary to do justice to what is currently happening for Groningen and for individual Groningers. They have not asked for this problem, but they are faced with it with great urgency. I have already addressed Mr Smaling's question about the national coordinator. The following about the many committees and organisations. I think we have created all the committees and organisations consciously, with the best of intentions and in a sensible way, but I agree with Mr Smaling that the national coordinator should consider whether there is the need or desirability to streamline the whole. I will discuss this point with the national coordinator so that he can give attention to why Mr Smaling asked. Mr Smaling also spoke about housing corporations. I think it is of the utmost importance to make the most of the potential of a housing corporation. Suppose a housing corporation has the plan to provide 900 homes with major maintenance. I would then like to be able to go to that housing corporation and say that you intend to do this and that to the houses, but we also think that this and that things should be done. I would like to say that we want to make money available for this, and I would like to ask the housing corporation to carry out the plan with its device, possibly supported by us. I would very much like to work with the housing corporations in this way and will do my best to do so. In order to achieve such a good understanding with the housing corporations, the National Coordinator is also important. I have already indicated that the National Coordinator should not be someone with just feeling for EZ; it will be someone who also has feelings for Home Affairs and Kingdom Relations, Housing and National Service, Infrastructure and Environment, and therefore has more to do with these processes and has experience with them. I come to Mrs Ouwehand's questions. She said that the core values of a civilized society are being deliberately and knowingly violated. I believe that a large group of people, collectively and individually, as well as the area in which they live, have been subjected to tribulation, and that we are doing everything we can to absorb, compensate and take the necessary measures. We are very aware of our duty to do so, because these people are entitled to do so. I've already talked about the amount of gas extraction. How do I see the task of the SodM? I think there are no misunderstandings about that. The SodM must monitor compliance with the legal provisions. It should focus on the aspects of safety, health, the environment, efficient extraction and soil movements. The SodM sums it up in this way: it must ensure that it is carried out socially responsible in this type of activity. That's what the SodM has to do. In my opinion, it has done so. In the more than two years I have been sitting here and dealing with the SodM, I appreciate the way in which it carries out its important task. I also take advantage of the advice it gives me, which is in the interests of the safety of the people in Groningen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u206	I have already raised this in an interrupting debate with Mr Bosman. If we do not take the right decisions now, then I do not rule out the possibility of a parliamentary inquiry on gas extraction. I would have liked to have the Prime Minister present for questions of this kind, but I would now like to know whether there has been any discussion within the cabinet on the culpability and inevitability of the risks to which we are exposing Groningers. Did the cabinet seek legal advice on this? Does the cabinet already have a savings fund for the liability claims that can come if the plans that are now before us continue?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u207	Mrs Ouwehand looks very seriously at me when she talks about a parliamentary survey, but I am not talking about that. That's what parliament's about. I have to do my job well; that's what I'm about. I am responsible for this and I am responsible for it to Parliament. That's what I'm doing now. What the parliament then does with it, whether it does something itself or lets it do it and how it organises it, the parliament knows better than I do. I'm just waiting to see what happens. The decision-making in the cabinet is particularly serious. We use our own expertise, including legal expertise. We have our advisors, for example, State surveillance of the mines. If necessary, we will also ask for external support, including in the legal field. I'm talking to colleagues one-on-one about that. Sometimes I talk about it in the sub-committee, sometimes I talk about it in the cabinet. Official contacts between the various ministries are also intensive. The cabinet is therefore doing this very carefully and gives me the space, support and critical look I need to do it as well as possible for the people in Groningen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u208	I ask this in the knowledge that this is not a parliamentary survey and that the Minister can actually say what he wants. We might figure it out later, but I don't want it to get that far. I sincerely and seriously ask the cabinet whether it has taken account of the conclusion that I think I can draw from the documents, namely that the risks are averted or can at least be reduced than they are now. If you don't, you can be blamed for being negligent. That seems to me to be a serious matter for the State. I would like to hear from the cabinet how this is being discussed. Are there any legal analyses and can they be shared with the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u209	I do not need legal analyses at all to know for myself that it is my responsibility to make careful decisions on gas extraction, compensation and preventive and compensatory measures. I need to be able to answer for that, and I know that very well. So I myself am motivated to do my job carefully. The same applies to the cabinet as a whole. That is where we use both internal and external expertise, both in the legal and other fields, to come up with careful policies. We are happy to answer for this in any connection that the Chamber wishes. Mrs Van Tongeren spoke of this morning's "note," as she called it. I got questions from the Chamber on Tuesday. I think it was 112 questions that had to be answered before noon the next day. The Chamber will be in the work I'm doing from day to day. With us it is also not a death house but a beehive where everything happens, day to day and from hour to hour. I informed the Chamber that, in order to achieve that 16.5 billion m as of 1 July 2015, I will come up with an amendment to the mining decision. After that, it became clear to me that a commitment from the NAM had been received in order to act immediately to the 16.5 billion. The NAM had contacted GasTerra about that. In this way it has been ensured that my political decision could be implemented in practice. That is why I informed the Chamber this morning that I did not accept an amendment to the mining decision and that I arranged it in this way. I've already talked about the new contracts. Mrs Van Tongeren asks why the NAM receives 1 billion m of gas for free. I think we've talked about this before. There is a technical explanation for what that gas is needed for and what agreement has been made on it. However, if Mrs Van Tongeren says that she does not think it is clear at the moment, I would be happy to explain this to the Chamber again. I will see what next opportunity can be taken. Mrs Van Tongeren asked whether it was true that, if we apply a standard of once every 10,000 years, we would accept the risk of 170 deaths. The standard of 1 in 10,000 is applied in different places and in different other contexts. It is not true that this always results in 170 deaths; fortunately not. In addition, we are now applying the 1 to 10,000 standard to existing construction in the expectation that the measures we take on this basis will be sufficient to meet the final standard, if they are finally adopted. In any case, we believe that the standard that applies to the whole of the Netherlands, namely a standard of 1 in 100 000, should also apply to Groningen. Mrs Van Tongeren also said that the SodM should be independent of Economic Affairs. The SodM is independent of Economic Affairs. It's an independent supervisor. I can tell Mrs Van Tongeren that she will be happy to accept from me that I never try to influence, withhold or steer the SodM in any way whatsoever. I very much respect the independence of the SodM. It has never made any complaint about this either. The SodM is very well able to function under the responsibility of the Minister of Economic Affairs, as the Dutch Food and Service Authority also functions under the responsibility of the Minister of Economic Affairs and the Health Care Inspectorate under the Minister of VWS. That is how we organized it in our country. I don't think there's a problem with that. In my view, this has provided an appropriate response to Mrs Van Tongeren's questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u210	I thank the Minister for the promise that he will look at that 1 billion cuub of free gas for the NAM. The motion I intended to table on this subject will then be kept in my folder for a while. I've asked about the state coordination. In the Dutch system, the Rijk, the municipality and the province are secondary levels of government with administrative bodies that all have their own democratic mandate. If there are powers going to the National Coordinator, so I read it, they go away from the city council and the county. The responsibility of people who have been elected to do certain things in that area will then go from the Groningen municipalities and the Groningen province to the Empire, because the National Coordinator says it is already someone of the Empire. I see possible problems there, for example when it comes to housing expropriation, where people say: I do not want my house to be demolished and we get a whole row of new buildings. The use of the Crisis and Recovery Act also gives the Empire a great deal of opportunity to intervene. The Groningers have already lost control of their soil. Do they not now lose some control over their own local and provincial democracy?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u211	I think the Groningen people are practical people, who want to see results in particular at the moment. They want to see the misery they are currently facing stopped and the problems addressed. Both the citizens and the administrators in Groningen have come to the conclusion with me that there must be a public direction and that this must be a powerful person who has direct access to the municipal and provincial directors in Groningen and to the ministers, who can go to the under councils and who can communicate directly with the Chamber. There must therefore be a strong official who can move forward, make decisions and ensure that the pace and care is maintained. We can only achieve this, as we have established as governments, if we set up an intergovernmental unit in Groningen. So that's where people from the municipality, the province and the ministries come in. This unit will be led by a coordinator who not only communicates with the municipalities and the province, but also communicates with me and my colleagues and is accountable to them. However, it is crucial that this function is held with mandates. If that didn't happen, it'd be a powerless figure. We want a powerful figure. The three different governments are concerned with the goal. We will ensure that this staff member operates in such a way that he can make a decisive contribution to what we want, namely to make improvements to the people of Groningen in a careful and rapid manner.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u212	I understand the Minister's intention. However, I would like to draw your attention to a problem which we will undoubtedly encounter in debates in the near future. This scheme is for 20, 30 years. We're not talking about something that just stops for a while, so it's possible that local and provincial democracy can be hollowed out quite considerably. People choose representatives there. They have the whole task set in the other provinces, but not in this province. I am not asking the Minister now, I think it is five past seven to come up with a ready-made solution on the spot, but I do want this to be a point. After all, everyone is saying that something must be done about it and that it must be resolved, but in five years' time, if an entire village is to be demolished or if an entire emergency village arises and the mayor and B and W of that village are to be addressed by the local people in the vein of'represented us', then we will have that problem. The Minister must have thought very carefully about it, but I think it would be better to think even more carefully about the way in which responsibility goes back to the municipalities and the province.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u213	I don't have the illusion that all this is going smoothly. If you need to strengthen tens of thousands of houses, for which people have to leave home, and you want to do so in such a way that it leads to improvements in the quality of villages and that people also feel that they are getting better, then everyone has views on that. If we're not careful, we're gonna stick in there. We must therefore ensure that we achieve results. The National Coordinator is a figure that governments have created together. We shall give him powers so that he can play a positive role in this. Of course, there are aspects we need to keep an eye on. If a city council mandates the zoning authority to that official, I can imagine that the agreement will be made that that official will also be accountable for the manner in which he deals with it. That is all to be worked out in greater detail. There is no doubt, however, that all the authorities involved in the problem in the area have found that we really need this official in order to ensure that this great reinforcement exercise and everything that has to be done around it is carried out quickly and responsibly. That's why we set it up. We are now going to make him a success.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u214	I come back to the point that the SodM is under the supervision of the Ministry of EZ. Well, in a way, you're against appearances. The Minister has indicated that he is actually okay with it as it is now. I also know from the Minister that he still wants to look at the entire gas building. Maybe he'd like to take another look at the arguments after all? Why should the SodM be covered by EZ and why not, for example, under the Ministry of Justice? I would like to talk to the Minister about this during the debate on the gas building. Maybe in the run-up to that he can see what the arguments are why it should be covered by EZ? In my opinion, that's why you're against appearances.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u215	All these organisations are covered by the Ministry of Industry. There is one exception I have created myself: the Nuclear Safety and Radiation Protection Authority. International agreements have been made in this area. A certain method has been chosen internationally for this purpose. We also apply them to the Netherlands. Furthermore, all professional supervisors are covered by a ministry. If they are independent supervisors and their independence is respected in practice, then there is no objection. I can assure the Chamber that I respect the independence of the SodM without any restraint. I am convinced that this will also be the case with my future successors. Therefore, I see no need to remove the SodM from the Ministry of EZ, which is different from the line applicable to other ministries, and to move it elsewhere. Such a decision is not something that has added value.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u216	I can even imagine a role of I and M in this. Perhaps the Minister just wants to consider it in the overall monitoring and the gas building that we want to discuss later this year. I wanted to put it in the minister's office every week.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u217	I'm not prepared to do that. I have given this a lot of thought and I am convinced that this has no added value and that there is no need for it. Then it is only the taking of paper measures without any added value for the area. Mr Vos has given a number of qualifications. I'd be happy to leave it on his behalf. He has the right to give qualifications with regard to me and with regard to the cabinet. He said that he does not think it desirable that there are any more complex cases. The existing complex cases are handled by the NAM. The NAM is very aware that it is necessary to go through with this. If that does not work in all cases, it is not necessarily the fault of the NAM. There may also be another good reason for this, which is not with the NAM. However, I believe that all these complex cases should be resolved by the end of the year. If they are not finished, I will see on a case-by-case basis what is going on and whether there has been proper action. A lot of cases have been dealt with. Those are both small and large cases. But in the complex cases, it has gone on long enough, especially if we are still involved in this year. So I will give that point the attention that Mr Vos is asking for. I also know that the NAM is working hard on this, and rightly so. We have already gone into the matter of small talk. I am looking at what has remained of what Mr Vos has said. The people with more complex problems are the people who deserve and get my attention. No one has asked for it, but not everyone can deal with it in the same way. If, throughout the whole system that we have set up to make the matter work properly, some of them are going to get into the tribulation and cannot find their way, they must be given the attention they deserve in order to be done justice. The national coordinator is intended to take care of the people in these cases. I've gone over the damage cases outside the nine municipalities. I hope that I have answered Mr Vos correctly. Mr Dijkgraaf spoke about geothermal energy and its importance. I, too, consider geothermal energy to be important. That is why it is an important part of our application of the SDE-plus. The Ministry of Economic Affairs is actively drawing on this to make use of the opportunities in this respect. Especially SodM has warned that when using the geothermal energy, when you bring out the heat at the bottom of the earth, gas often comes with it, causing dangerous situations. From that point of view, therefore, the issue also has our attention. I have gone into the scope of gas extraction in detail. I have therefore answered Mr Dijkgraaf's points. I'll wait in second term to see if anything else stayed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u218	This has put an end to the Minister's first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u219	Mrs Van Veldhoven asked to be the last to be on the list of speakers. I give the floor to Mrs Mulder of the CDA, with three minutes' speaking time in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u220	Mr. Chairman. I'm filing four motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the risk analyses carried out by SodM in 2013 for the Loppersumcluster have not yet been carried out for the rest of the earthquake area and therefore the safety risks for the people in Groningen are not sufficiently identified;]] [[Noting that the Minister in Office 33529, No. 28 indicated that a maximum deployment of the conversion installations would allow the production from the Groningenveld to be reduced to approximately 30 billion m per year;]] [[Whereas the safety of our inhabitants should be paramount;]] [[calls on the government, as a precaution, to immediately reduce the gas extraction ceiling to 30 billion m of gas from the Groningen field for 2015, with the exception of extremely severe winter and technical events,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government, poignant cases with often complex harms and social problems, to offer a new perspective and to handle them generously before 1 July 2015 and to send the NAM the bill,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that too many residents of the cabinet are currently being sent to the wall at the damage disposal, caused by gas extraction;]] [[noting the need to consider in full the treatment of damage caused by the extraction of gas (soil decline and earthquakes);]] [[invites the government, damages handling and reinforcement of the property to handle in full,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the compaction at the Eemskanaalcluster is high and that high compaction is a harbinger of earthquakes close to the city of Groningen;]] [[Whereas the extraction ceilings for clusters and areas in the 2015-2016 extraction plan have been established on the basis of the year 2012 with average high extraction without further objective land;]] [[calls on the Government to reduce extraction at the Eemskanaalcluster to zero as long as risk analyses are not yet ready,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Agnes Mulder, Mr Dik-Faber and Mr Van Veldhoven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-100]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Agnes Mulder, Mr Smaling, Mr Klever, Mr Van Tongeren, Mr Ouwehand, Mr Dik-Faber and Mr Van Veldhoven.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-101]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Agnes Mulder, Mr Van Veldhoven, Mr Dik-Faber, Mr Ouwehand, Mr Van Tongeren, Mr Klever and Mr Smaling.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-102]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Agnes Mulder, Mr Van Tongeren and Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-103]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u221	Mr. Chairman. I read very quickly, because I really wanted to be able to read all these motions. We hope to hear from the Minister how he looks at the risk analyses I mentioned in the first term. I also forwarded information, so I hope there will be an answer to that. To be honest, we also hope that the Minister is still prepared to say here tonight that he wants to go back to a minimum variant. Of course, we would very much like to hear that that is 30 billion cubs for the safety of our citizens of Groningen. Of course, you cannot exclude this directly, but we do know that this is likely to reduce the number of tremors. That connection has now been demonstrated, so we have to do what we can.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u222	Mr. Chairman. It was a solid debate. The VVD has made it clear that we are going for safety, viability and perspective for the future. We have discussed this with the Minister. There have been statements about it which I would like to take up in a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there will be a report every six months from the SodM on the extraction and on-going surveys of soil and seismicity;]] [[Whereas safety is and must be a priority;]] [[Whereas the social effects of gas extraction in Groningen are also of great importance;]] [[calls on the government, in its decision of 1 July, to assess the social impact on the inhabitants, and not just safety and extraction, as similar to an SMEA,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bosman and Mr Jan Vos. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-104]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u223	Security is important. That is why I welcome the steps taken by the cabinet to reduce gas extraction. The VVD wholeheartedly supports these steps. Then it is not just the 39.4 billion cube gas, but also the 35 billion cube gas research. This will enable us to cut the year in half even more beautifully, allowing us to look at what is happening with the extraction process as closely as possible. We also support the policy of improving the living environment and the adaptation and improvement of houses and monuments. We have talked to the Minister about the need for separate regulations for monuments. However, a monument like a church or other beautiful building is something other than a monument you live in. I hope the Minister will give his opinion on this. The VVD attaches importance to the investigation of the most safe extraction scenarios. That is why I look forward to the reports to be published on 1 July and 1 January.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u224	Mr. Chairman. The Minister is not only cheating on the Groningen people, but also on the Chamber. The Minister's response to the further reversal of the gas tap is raging on all sides. We are not convinced that the extraction of up to 30 billion cubic metres this year is impossible. That is why, together with Mrs Van Tongeren, we will be tabling a motion on this matter. The motion will be tabled by Mrs Van Tongeren. The Minister stated in his initial contribution that people in their unsellable houses can claim compensation after sale. "Unsellable houses after sale." Is the Minister really so distracted that he doesn't realize that this can't be done? Or does he deliberately throw the Groningen in the eyes? I'll file the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that according to the ARUP study for level 4 measures residents should leave their homes for months because of the reinforcement required under the NPR Directive;]] [[Whereas even after this strengthening, it is not possible to ensure that the property is protected from earthquake damage and associated months of damage recovery;]] [[believes that we cannot leave Groningers in a permanent building site;]] [[calls on the Government, residents eligible for level 4 measures or higher reinforcement measures to offer a buy-out scheme before the necessary reinforcement;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Klever, Mr Van Tongeren, Mr Ouwehand and Mr Van Veldhoven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-105]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u225	In order to reduce the future extraction of Groningen gas, it is also necessary to reduce exports. That is why we are tabling the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Netherlands is obliged, through long-term export contracts, to export a significant quantity of Groningen gas;]] [[Whereas this limits a future reduction in the quantity of Groninger gas to be extracted;]] [[consider that we should be more sparing on our Groninger gas;]] [[calls on the government to break open long-term export contracts so that fewer Groningen gas are required to be exported,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Klever and Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-106]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u226	In conclusion, I am very curious whether Mr Vos sets out his sympathetic speech in his first term in a motion, or whether he is being held hostage by the financial threats of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u227	Mr. Chairman. I'm filing two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in the province of Groningen there are many monuments and heritage with cultural and religious value, but that earthquakes caused damage to many monuments and churches as a result of gas extraction;]] [[Whereas the Monuments Act prohibits damage and destruction of monuments under the Monuments Act;]] [[calls on the Government to:]] [[ensure that the costs of maintaining and restoring monumental heritage are borne by NAM;]] [[taking into account not only economic considerations but also the monumental value and value for the rural area and the identity of Groningen;]] [[to provide a special team at the National Coordinator Groningen for the repair and prevention of damage to monuments and heritage,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Dik-Faber, Mr Van Veldhoven, Mr Ouwehand and Mr Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-107]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u228	My second motion is next. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the State surveillance of the Mines concluded that the system could be regulated and recommended that the extraction of gas in Groningen should be reduced as quickly and as realistically as possible;]] [[Considering that a total of around 20 to 30 billion m from the market can be delivered through the deployment of high-caloric gas, but that only 0.1 and 0.2 billion m of converted gas were produced in 2013 and 2014, respectively;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure an annual maximum deployment of the conversion capacity, so that gas production from the Groningen field can be reduced,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Dik-Faber, Mr Klever and Mr Agnes Mulder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-108]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u229	I began by mentioning this day as a special day. I have recalled that the Groningen flag is in other provinces, including the province of Friesland. I said the church bells sounded. I really hope that this House's voting behaviour will show that something will really change for the province of Groningen and that it will not be clear for just six months. I hope that we will make a choice for the future of Groningen and for safety, and that we will substantially reduce gas extraction. We shall see how the votes are going to be held later. In any case, our signature is subject to motions which assume that production will be reduced to 30 billion cube.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u230	Mr. Chairman. It was indeed a spicy debate. Despite the respect I have for the Minister, I have to say that on this subject I have a bit of a feeling that we are coming from a different planet. I'm totally different in it. I also know that not every Groninger can be dealt with immediately with damage and can be satisfied immediately, but the look and passion to tackle such a major problem in a significant part of the country doesn't stop there. I've heard the word "advisory" come by 200 times. There is, after all, a kind of wall of advice on a subject such as our own geological processes, which is very little known about. In addition, the suggestion is raised that we suddenly know what the situation is and how much we can win at the most. But this is not reality. I would have liked to have brought that to the attention of the House. I have one more question: what exactly is the NAM going to pay? It may be that the Minister has already answered that question, but I have not received it entirely. It is unlimited, but it would be nice if some direction could be given to that, because you also have to put it off against what the Empire delivers. I would also like to ask the Minister, if he is prepared to do so, not to respond now to the plan we have written, with cover, which we have called Shoulders under Groningen. Perhaps the Minister is prepared to do so. Finally, I only have one motion, not out of disinterest, but because I have signed motions from a lot of my 'energy dolls'; that is what I call the ladies and my colleagues. I will support those motions, too. But in order not to double up, I confine myself to one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the inhabitants of Groningen need to restore confidence;]] [[Whereas the amount of commissions, centres, tables, supervisors, gas vendors, knowledge institutions, steering committees and advisory committees does not contribute to that trust;]] [[calls on the government, all these authorities, to think away for a moment and then to re-determine with the Groningen people what is needed,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Smaling. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-109]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u231	The purpose of this motion is to maximise the effectiveness, in particular of the recovery part of what has to be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u232	Mr. Chairman. The public gallery is almost empty, and I can imagine that symbolising the disillusionment that the Groningers have had to experience in The Hague again today. I think that's really incredible. The heart of the debate, as far as the Party for Animals is concerned, lies in the responsibility of the Cabinet to ensure the safety of all inhabitants of the Netherlands and thus also the Groningers. I can only conclude that the risks to which we expose Groningers are foreseeable and averted. We can do something to reduce the risks, namely to further reduce gas extraction. I note that the cabinet does not do so and I warn the cabinet: you are failing here; you can be accused of negligence and I have a strong impression that this will happen. The cabinet calls the security risks acceptable to the Groningen people, but the Chamber cannot really control them in any way. However, there are serious doubts about this. The conclusion that the risks would be acceptable is certainly not shared by the Party for the Animals. There have been motions that I co-sign or support to at least agree that we are not going to win more than 30 billion cuubs a year. There are also other scenarios possible. That is why I have tabled a motion on that point. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the cabinet says to put security first;]] [[Whereas this would mean that the lowest possible production ceiling of Groninger gas would be used to ensure security of supply;]] [[noting that research shows that the production band to meet this security of supply is 21 to 35 billion m per year;]] [[calls on the Government to develop scenarios to reduce production ceilings for 2015 and 2016 to 21 billion m of gas per year,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ouwehand and Mr Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-110]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u233	An important part is, of course, that we are saving, because, as a spread cheese advertisement always said, what does not arrive does not have to be taken off. What you don't use, you don't have to pump it up, I'll translate it. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that in the Netherlands there are very many unused possibilities to save billions of cubic meters of gas, including:]] [[stopping the production of fertilizers;]] [[stopping gas waste of up to 10% of the total Dutch natural gas in greenhouse horticulture;]] [[the accelerated isolation of existing housing stock;]] [[prohibiting the discharge of residual heat by industry;]] [[taking over the enforcement of the Environmental Law so that companies are finally kept to the obligation to invest in energy-saving techniques;]] [[calls on the Government to proceed rapidly with the above-mentioned savings proposals so that the Netherlands can quickly become independent of natural gas,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-111]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u234	I do not have enough time to submit my final motion, but I once again call on the Minister, against the beers, to return to his steps and to do what is his responsibility to ensure the safety of all the inhabitants of the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u235	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government writes that maximum deployment of the conversion installations makes it possible to reduce production from the Groningen field to 30 billion m per year;]] [[noting that State supervision of the Mines has advised to reduce the extraction of gas as quickly as possible and as quickly as possible and as realistic as possible;]] [[calls on the Government to further reduce the production ceiling for 2015 and 2016 to a maximum of 30 billion m per year,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that confidence in the authorities involved in the extraction of gas is low;]] [[Whereas the Ministry of Economic Affairs receives the oil and gas benefits, grants the licences and is responsible for monitoring;]] [[calls on the Government to outline scenarios on how State supervision of the Mines can be brought under the responsibility of another ministry or become an independent administrative body,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that gas extraction in Groningen poses an earthquake risk, runs out of gas and contributes to climate change;]] [[This is mainly due to the need to reduce demand for Groningen natural gas;]] [[calls on the Government to draw up a plan to rapidly reduce the domestic consumption of Groningen natural gas in the Netherlands and to send this plan to the Chamber for the summer,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the safety of Groningers is paramount and it is therefore unthinkable that gas extraction should resume after 1 July;]] [[calls on the government to opt for the safest scenario and to rule out any increase in gas extraction after 1 July,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by members Van Tongeren, Ouwehand, Klaver, Smaling and Dik-Faber.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-112]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Tongeren and Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-113]] [[This motion was proposed by members Van Tongeren, Van Veldhoven and Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-114]] [[This motion was proposed by members Van Tongeren, Klever, Ouwehand, Van Veldhoven, Agnes Mulder, Dik-Faber and Smaling.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-115]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u236	This last motion consists of two exact quotes from Mr Samsom's interview yesterday. I therefore hope that the Labour Party will also support this motion. That way, we could possibly make Groningen safer for the Groningers. In this way, the Chamber could also send a clear message to the Minister: 39.4 billion cubic metres is too high and the Minister should certainly consider going to 30 billion cubic metres via 35 billion cubic metres and then to even less.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u237	Mr. Chairman. The great gain of today's debate is that gas extraction in the Netherlands is further reduced. Today's loss is that all parties who have jointly and with the Labour Party called for a reduction in gas extraction cannot now agree with a joint motion in which that unity is expressed also for the people of Groningen. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is likely that the safety of the inhabitants of Groningen will benefit from reducing gas extraction;]] [[having regard to the evidence provided by GTS that the lowest possible level of gas extraction necessary for security of supply is 33 billion m plus a maximum of 2 billion m of reserve capacity;]] [[express its agreement to the reduction of the extraction of gas until 1 July to the lowest possible level of 16.5 billion m for security of supply as from 1 January 2015;]] [[Calls on the Government to prepare, for gas extraction after 1 July, a extraction decision based on the lowest possible level of gas extraction necessary for security of supply and security;]] [[calls on the Government to make it clear how further reductions in gas extraction can be made after 1 January 2016,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Jan Vos and Bosman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-116]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u238	Mr Vos began by saying that he regretted that there was no majority in the Chamber in favour of making a clear statement to the Groningen people. I would like to ask Mr Vos: who is responsible?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u239	It seems clear to me that this motion, which calls for further reduction of gas extraction in Groningen, expresses the view that the Labour Party has expressed several times today. I regret that the parties today do not wish to sign this motion. I also regret that there has not been a more cavalier admission that gas extraction is just going down today. I am sorry that even on this subject the Hague games are still being played. I am sorry that one colleague put her name under this motion, so that it can be brought back under pressure from other colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u240	I am incredibly surprised by this reaction by Mr Vos. There are several motions for a vote. These motions speak very clearly about staying away from the 39.4 billion cub, about refraining from it, about going back to 35 billion and to 30 billion. Those are the motions that provide the clarity that the Groningen need. It is the Labour Party's choice not to sign those motions. Let us hope that we will be able to count on her support later, but now that this motion has just been tabled, I have actually lost all hope of it. I'm very sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u241	It seems quite clear to me: gas extraction will be reduced to 16.5 billion cubic metres until 1 July. It is inconceivable for us that gas extraction will then go up again. I am proud that we have achieved the result of 33 billion plus 2 billion. I would have liked it to be brought back a little further, but that is not justified, you know as well as I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u242	What firm guarantee is there in the motion that the gas extraction will not go up again after 1 July?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u243	The motion states that the extraction of gas is reduced to the lowest possible level, while respecting the security of supply and safety of the inhabitants of Groningen. I think that is the only right wording to deal with this. Nor can I imagine anyone reading this motion being able to judge it differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u244	We've had a debate here all day with Minister Kamp. He has been magicing figures all day and has not been able to suggest that he sets the lowest possible ceiling for safety and security of supply. Now you come up with a motion in which there is no guarantee that after 1 July the gas tap will not be opened again. There's no guarantee in it. The guarantee of the PvdA is until the election and then it is business as usual again. You must be ashamed of yourself, Mr Vos.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u245	Once again, it is inconceivable for the Labour Party that gas extraction will rise again after 1 July. Gas extraction goes down, it goes down, and it goes down, just as much as is necessary for the safety of the people of Groningen, but without us going out the heaters, because that does not seem to me to be such a good solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u246	I was hoping for a real fireworks motion. I thought, "This is gonna be the night Joop den Uyl is posthumously proud of Jan Vos." But there are a lot of terms in there that offer a lot of escapes. I also see Mr Bosman standing under it. Is Mr Vos really happy with this motion or is it yet another example that the Labour Party, in all these years she has been in a cabinet with the VVD, is always getting back on track and the VVD always gets back on track with the profits?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u247	Personally, I'm not much of a fan of the period that Den Uyl led the Labour Party. I'll just say that; it's an exorcism. During that period there was a lot of polarisation in politics and actually little was achieved. I am more of a Willem Drees fan myself: a binding figure who has achieved a lot for our country by working well with others and looking more at the content than at the political game.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u248	It's only half the answer, but I find it interesting to hear. I would like to discuss this with Mr Vos on another occasion. This could have been a fireworks motion. It should be, because, ideologically speaking, Mr Vos is just one of the people behind this banner. But it doesn't. Why not?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u249	Willem Drees was quite far away from Joop den Uyl. He even said goodbye to the Labour Party when Den Uyl was in power, but he was not yet Mao Zedong or any other communist leader. Ideologically, our roots are just different. Perhaps that is reflected in a different direction today. I have opted for a very substantial 25% reduction in gas extraction in Groningen on top of the already achieved reductions from 22 billion to 16.5 billion. However, I have kept to the realistic course that I do not think it is wise to go down, because the experts, the engineers who calculated it, have said that it is not sensible. Those letters are all public and you can all read them. I'm gonna hold on to that course.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u250	I think we all look at what we can do in our own way, but when I read Mr Vos' motion, I read that 35 billion is the minimum. Indeed, the recital states that GTS has substantiated that 35 billion is the minimum required. Does Mr Vos think that 35 billion is the minimum?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u251	No, that is precisely the essence of the difference between all the people who call it 30 or 35 billion and the motion I have formulated. It says: the lowest possible level. If that is 30, 22 or 18 billion, then that is equally a good starting point for the Labour Party, with two debinding conditions, namely security of supply and above all the safety of the people of Groningen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u252	But that's not in the motion. The motion says that the experts we have to follow say that 35 billion is the minimum. You endorse that with this motion, because you say that 35 billion is the minimum according to the experts, and we must follow that minimum. You say, by the way, that there is no majority in favour, but I believe that the signing of the motion is a majority, so if you believe that this is the right way forward, we have at least been able to take that step today. Let us see if we can take further steps on the basis of proposals that the opposition is doing with equal will today. I hope, of course, that you will support this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u253	What D66 says, of course, is interesting. The engineers have that figured out for now. Now the 35 billion, 33 plus 2, is the most sensible. The issue is that over the next six months we will see if we can do that even lower. We also know that there are all kinds of technical and legal possibilities. Mrs Van Veldhoven is now going to talk to someone else again while I answer. I think that's so rude. I find it very pleasant to answer, but then she must really listen. If she doesn't want to hear anything, she should just give up and stop asking those questions, insinuating that something is happening that isn't happening at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u254	Mrs. Van Veldhoven, you will be addressed immediately. I'll give you an opportunity to respond once.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u255	I just want to say that I can imagine that Mr Vos has been harassed by this evening and that he finds it difficult, but I would like to give the floor to Mrs Mulder to put a substantive question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u256	We would like to hear whether it is conceivable for the PvdA Group to take a decision tonight on gas extraction for the whole year and to give clarity to the Groningers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u257	That is precisely what we are doing, because that motion states that we are asking for a new mining decision on 1 July. That extraction decision should be prepared in such a way as to select the lowest possible level of gas extraction. There is now a decision for the whole year. It is your right to read it differently, Mrs Mulder, but I think this is the best way for the people of Groningen, and I shall therefore continue to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u258	We're just seeing a PvdA fraction struggling, and we get that. This evening, the PvdA Group could choose to clarify the extraction of gas over the entire year. Otherwise it is possible that the Minister will continue with his 39.4 billion and that there will be a huge increase in production in the second half of the year. That's probably even more unsafe for the people of Groningen. How does the PvdA Group see that? Is she going to rule that out with this motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u259	You're doing the same thing as your predecessor. The Labour Party has said before that no more than 16.5 billion cubic tons of gas will be won this six months, a reduction compared with the 22 billion planned by the NAM. The cabinet is also in favour of that view. The Labour Party has also said that in the second half of this year we only want to go further down and not up. If Mrs Mulder continues to give her own interpretation of those words every time, that is her right. She is also a member of the opposition. But I know what I said here. I know what there is to read in the motion. I know what's in the pieces. That's all public. Every Groninger can read it and take his own stand on what happened here tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u260	If that is the case, is there not anything against explicitly putting the Group of the Party of European Socialists' desire to limit the production ceiling to 35 billion cubic metres a year? I do not understand why there is a motion here that expresses the wish of the Labour Party, but which does not deviate at all from the possibilities of escape that we have heard from the Minister all day. That 39.4 billion remains possible. The Group of the Party of European Socialists will not like that, but it will still be possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u261	That cap you're proposing doesn't interest me at all. All I care about is that it's going down now. We have said 16.5 billion now as a cap for this period, but then we are going to look at all the studies and see how we can bring it down again in terms of security of supply and security for the people of Groningen. I don't know what's so unclear about that. I don't need that 35 billion. 33 billion plus 2 billion is 35 billion, that can be calculated by anyone, but that's not my concern. The point is that the gas extraction is going down, and that is what has happened. It has fallen from 42.5 billion via 39.4 billion to 33 billion plus 2 billion now. Anyone can see that and it's all checkable. I do not understand why it is always made a point that we would not do what we stand for. I don't understand why all this doubt needs to be sown about something that is such a futility.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u262	With all due respect, Mr Vos did not pay attention during the debate in this debate. And he doesn't understand what it feels like for the Groningers not to hear tonight what the maximum production will be for the whole year. I have heard Mr Vos say that the Labour Party is proud to have dragged this in and that she would have wanted a little more. What does the Labour Party then do, for example, to support Mrs Mulder's motion which talks about 30 billion a year, with the exception of extremely severe winters and technical events? That's possible, isn't it? Don't tell me you want to give a clear signal to the Groningers! I'm so sick of it!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u263	I would have liked to have had that 30 billion, and I have said that before, if that is possible. However, Mrs Ouwehand read on page 4 of the letter sent by the cabinet yesterday that engineers find that irresponsible. If you go to 30 billion, there is a chance that during a cold winter the wells at Loppersum will have to be opened in one go and that this will cause more damage than flat production. It is then Mrs Ouwehand's decision to say that it is wiser to choose the 30 billion. I'm gonna make that trade-off a little different. I'm not gonna take that chance. I would prefer to opt for the 33 billion and then have it examined whether we can still go to the 30 billion within six months or a year. That has been the commitment of the Labour Party, nothing more and nothing less.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u264	Thank you for your contribution. I give it... well, how can I say no to that? This one question, then, Mrs Mulder, just this one. I'll be fine next time. Go ahead, Mrs. Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u265	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Does the PvdA Group consider it possible that the VVD could explain this motion in such a way that more can be won after 1 July?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u266	Yes, I have already noticed in the debate that there is some light between the group's position and the cabinet's position. I don't know exactly what the VVD is like at this point. Mrs Mulder should ask the VVD Group. The Labour Party has the position as it stands in the motion. I can repeat what I said before. You're getting a whisper? Do you want me to wait?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u267	Yeah, I get a little catch-up, that's how we do it sometimes. It's just a little tricky. The PvdA Group is tabling this motion and I can no longer ask the VVD Group how it stands, because the VVD Group has already spoken. I suspect that both the PvdA Group and the VVD Group might be able to explain this motion differently. I want to be clear about this tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u268	Yeah. I see Mr Bosman coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u269	The VVD chooses the most secure option.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u270	That seems clear to me. Are there any other questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u271	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u272	Mr. Chairman. I'll file the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the high dependence on natural gas poses increasing problems, such as earthquakes in Groningen, harmful emissions and dependence on unstable countries;]] [[Whereas geothermal and residual heat can be better used as an alternative source of energy;]] [[calls on the Government to take additional measures for energy saving in the built environment;]] [[calls on the Government to come forward with proposals for an accelerated transition to sustainable heat by making it financially more attractive,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Dijkgraaf and Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-117]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u273	This motion is intended to reduce the gas that will be extracted in the future. Mr Vos talks about "as little as possible." You have to use other energy sources and energy savings; only then can you do so. I have another motion, but Mrs Van Veldhoven will be submitting it on my behalf. It just says "35" in the request. After all the discussions, I do not understand why the coalition here in this House, at least the PvdA Group, is not putting that right in its request. If you say that this motion, tabled after this debate, after the Minister's input, after Mr Bosman's input, and they all have the full right to do so through the request, means a maximum of 35 billion, then you simply have not been paying attention. Mr Bosman does not rule out the fact that it is 39.4 billion, nor does the Minister. If we want to clarify the situation for the people of Groningen, and we want to do so, then we need to make it clear that 35 billion is the maximum. And if the Chamber does not say that 35 billion is maximus, this debate has not brought clarity to the people of Groningen, and it can just become 39.4 billion. In any case, we shall say so by means of that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u274	Mr. Chairman. It is a pity that our alternative gas extraction plan is ignored by the Minister and by the Chamber. This confirms once again that they are trapped in a tunnel vision; and, unfortunately, they do not see much outside the limited scope of that tunnel. However, we have a motion for a feasibility study. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that all political parties consider that the security of residents in the Groningen risk area should be central to the gas extraction decision;]] [[noting that there is a broad consensus that earthquakes will continue to occur in reducing gas extraction;]] [[calls on the Government to carry out an in-depth feasibility study into the conditions under which residents of the risk area are willing to move to safe areas in the province of Groningen,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Öztürk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-118]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u275	In our view, the Minister's current policy is not going to work. Also turning the gas valve back to 39 or 30 billion cubic metres is not going to work. These are all false solutions; false security, a little more security, before the elections. Let's try to think differently!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u276	Mr. Chairman. It may be unusual, but I shall begin my second term with a request to Mr Vos. When I read his motion, there were two things missing for me, and also for Mr Dijkgraaf. No decision is being taken now. And I read the motion as a motion asking for at least 35 billion. If Mr Vos says that he is prepared to reflect with the rest of the Chamber on those two points, which would allow the Chamber to come forward with one motion, then I would ask the President to suspend the sitting or to organise a third deadline, in which we can see if we can come to a joint motion. I am very willing to do so. My question to Mr Vos is: is he prepared to do so? If there's no answer, I'll have to file my motion anyway. I'm not getting a response, so I'll file my motion. My invitation remains, by the way, even after this motion has been tabled. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the government is holding on to the 30.4 billion m extraction decision for 2015 despite a reduction in extraction in the first half of 2015;]] [[Whereas the reduction in extraction in the first half of 2015 should not lead to an increase in the second half of 2015;]] [[points out that it is unthinkable for gas extraction to exceed 35 billion m on an annual basis after 1 July 2015;]] [[calls on the Government to take a decision to that end,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Van Veldhoven and Dijkgraaf. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-119]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u277	Then I have two more motions that I will read very quickly. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the government will establish a national coordinator Groningen to which many parties responsible for gas extraction in Groningen will be linked;]] [[noting that this could apply, for example, to the CWI and the Committee on poignant cases;]] [[Whereas it is important for the Ombudsman to be able to operate independently in Groningen to denounce problems;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the Ombudsman can continue to operate independently in Groningen and that he can deal with complaints across the board agreement;]] [[invites the Government to ensure that the dialogue table is regularly informed of progress by the National Coordinator,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas preventive strengthening is of great importance in order to mitigate the effects of earthquakes and thereby to increase the safety of the inhabitants of Groningen;]] [[Whereas it is important that these reinforcements be implemented as soon as possible;]] [[asks the Government, in consultation with the national coordinator Groningen:]] [[develop a plan of action to make all homes in Groningen earthquake-proof, with a timetable for the coming year;]] [[indicate in the approach plan how the overall risk of the Groningers is reduced as far as possible and as quickly as possible;]] [[give priority to all houses around or below a level of risk of 1 in 1,000 in the coming year;]] [[consult with the residents on how to make the homes as safe as possible in the event of earthquakes, examining the concept of multi-layer security;]] [[report to the Chamber on these points for the summer of 2015,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by members Van Veldhoven, Van Tongeren, Dik-Faber and Agnes Mulder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-120]] [[This motion was proposed by members Van Veldhoven and Agnes Mulder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-121]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u278	I am only reopening the sitting to say that I was asked by the majority to extend the suspension by half an hour.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u279	We're going to start with the government's second term. The Minister will respond to the motions tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u280	Mr. Chairman. In addition to motions for resolutions, a number of questions were raised in the second term. A single point from the first period has also remained. Mrs Mulder spoke about the inventory made by Arup of the risk analyses of Loppersum and its surroundings. This inventory has been continued by Arup for the entire area and is incorporated in the risk analysis that the NAM will produce on 1 May. That risk analysis will be a public document. Then the Chamber shall have the information it wishes for inspection. That's how it finally gets to the Chamber. Mrs Van Tongeren spoke about the gas used by the NAM for its own use. That's right. If the pressure from the field is reduced, compressors must be switched on to get the gas out anyway. Gas is used to run those compressors. That gas is available for the NAM. This was agreed in the agreement concluded with the shareholders of the NAM at the time. It's not an unusual match. Besides, it's an agreement I'm committed to, so I'd like to leave it that way. Mr Bosman spoke about separate regulations for monuments. I am in favour of giving special attention to monuments. The NPR (Dutch Practice Directive) for monuments requires separate elaboration and intensive attention. There are no separate rules, but it is a separate elaboration of the NPR. I would like to say this in order to clarify the point made by Mr Bosman. Mr Smaling wondered what the NAM would eventually pay. Knowing Mr Smaling, I think he means what part the shareholders of the NAM ultimately take on. In view of the profit-sharing arrangements, 64% of what the NAM pays will be borne by the Empire. 64% is therefore borne by the Empire and 36% by the other two: ExxonMobil and Shell. Those were the comments, regardless of the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u281	That the NAM gets gas for 200 to 300 million for its own operations, I knew. My question to the Minister was correct as to whether that is justified. I do not know of any other company in the Netherlands that gets the raw materials at that level free of charge from our joint mineral resources or from something in the sea. The Groningers just pay for their gas to heat their house and they have the problems of the tremors. The NAM causes that and gets an incredible amount of gas for free. I understand that it is now the case and that something needs to be changed in the contracts. The Minister is going to review the gas building, so he told the Chamber. Is it not wise to look at this point too? Start with a minimum payment and let it rise slowly. Why should the NAM get so much free gas?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u282	This is common in the world of gas and oil extraction. If you need gas and oil to bring out gas and oil, they are available. This also applies in this case. That's what we've agreed on. I can't just go pull that. I have said that I will look at how we are dealing with the construction of the whole gas building, bearing in mind the reduction in the amount of gas available and thus the appearance of the end of the extraction. However, I do not see any reason why, apart from the agreements, this one part should be taken out, while in the world of gas and oil extraction it is a common construction. I do not see any chance of doing that successfully. I'll get on the motions. In the Mulder c.s. motion. in piece No. 100 the government is asked to immediately reduce the cap on gas extraction to 30 billion m by this year. In the first term, I have reason to believe that this should not be the case. In the Mulder c.s. motion. in piece No. 101 the government is called upon to offer a new perspective, to deal with these spatially and to send the account to NAM, which is often complex in terms of damage and social problems. We've already set up a special committee of special situations. It has received a budget of EUR 15 million. She can buy out, too. In four cases, she has already done so. We have therefore already made provision for the distressing cases. For that reason, I advise against the motion in part No. 101 by Mrs Mulder. I do not know if I have made that conclusion, but the motion in part No. 100 I've also advised against.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u283	I'll come to the motion on part number one. 101. We are simply getting signals that this generosity is not as generous as the Minister explains it here. If you get into the situation where you're being bought out, that doesn't mean you can buy a house somewhere else. That's some tough shit. If these social problems are added, we think that this is just one step short. We would very much like that additional step to be taken. That is why we make this appeal in this motion. We are aware that there are special cases in a committee, but it may be even more generous as far as we are concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u284	Mrs Mulder looks so angry at me now, but we have recognised that there have been poignant cases. We have agreed to set up a separate committee for these cases. There are people in there who get the space to do their job. That committee was paid for that, too. This system has also been applied in practice in four cases. I think there has really been a proper settlement for the distressing cases. So I really do not think it is necessary to put another motion on top of that. That is why I advise against the motion in part No. 101.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u285	For all those people who do run into this, I regret that it is not generous enough and that the Minister draws this conclusion. However, it is a clear conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u286	Mrs Mulder now says that it is not generous enough, but what is it based on? I can only say that we have asked for people who are not in question before the committee. They were not questioned by Mrs Mulder either. Those people get the room to do their job. They have money to do their job. They're doing their job. And now Mrs Mulder looks at me angry and says that it is not generous enough! In the Mulder c.s. motion. in piece No. 102 states that damage handling and strengthening of the property must be handled in full. I cannot say that in this way, because in a number of cases this reinforcement will only be discussed later and the damage recovery will have to be dealt with quickly. So you can't say that as a general line. If it had been for the government to do so as much as possible, I believe that this should indeed be done. If we can reasonably do that, we have to do it. But it doesn't say that. Moreover, the motion states that the people are being sent from the locker to the wall at this time. I think that's wrong, too. If that had not been in the box to the wall and if "as much as possible" had been in the operative part, I could have done something different than I am doing now. Now I'm deceiving the motion. In the motion in part No. Mrs Mulder's 103 states that the government must reduce the extraction of the Eemskannaal cluster to zero. I wasn't going to do that, because I specifically waited to see if the SodM would find reason to advise. She deliberately didn't. She said that reducing the whole would have an effect and then came up with the opinion of 39.4 billion. Now, for July 1st, 35 billion is already in sight. Before January 1st, another total may be shown. So the pressure's down. I therefore have no reason to reduce the extraction at the Eemskanal cluster to zero. The motion in part No. 103, I'm guessing. In the motion in part No. Mr Bosman and Mr Vos asked the government to consider the social impact of the decision on 1 July, and not just safety and extraction. I think we should do this. Indeed, we need to identify by then the relationship with the NPR, the cost of applying the NPR to new construction and to existing construction and what is associated with it. I believe that I can respond to that in a material way. That is why I shall leave the vote on the motion for a resolution on item No. 104 to the Chamber. In the motion-Klever c.s. in piece No. 105 the government is invited to come up with a buy-out scheme for residents eligible for level 4 or higher reinforcement measures. We have agreed in the governance agreement that we are considering how a buy-out scheme can contribute to normalising the housing market in the area, compared to the reference areas. I'd like to stick to that. I need to work out that arrangement further. However, I do not think it would be wise to say in advance as a Chamber what the administrative agreement should include in the regulation that is still to be worked out. I therefore recommend to the House that the vote be taken on item No. 105.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u287	In my view, the Minister confuses the depreciation scheme with a buy-out scheme. The Minister himself has indicated that strengthening 35,000 homes is a major operation. If you carry out this motion, you will make sure that people whose property needs to be strengthened also have the choice to buy out. Then you don't strengthen homes of people who don't want to live in them anymore, and leave your capacity to help the people who do want to stay in the area faster with the strengthening of their homes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u288	I'm not confusing anything. I know very well the difference between the depreciation scheme and the buy-out scheme. Maybe Mrs. Klever is confusing both arrangements. On the issue of the buy-out scheme, the additional administrative agreement agreed to consider how it could contribute to the normalisation of the housing market in the area. So we're gonna work that out. That's what's gonna happen. I think it is very unwise before we have started to work out a possible arrangement, to tell you what that arrangement should look like. That is why I really do not recommend the motion in part No. 105. In the motion in part No. Mr Klever and Mr Ouwehand asked the government to break open the long-term export contracts. I told you, you can't do that. If we do that, we must also break all our contracts in the Netherlands. We are not entitled to open up those contracts with people who live just over the border and who depend on the gas of Groningen as well as those who live on our side of the border, people with whom we have also concluded contracts. The motion in part No. 106 I advise. In the motion in part No. 107 Mrs Dik-Faber says what needs to be done with the monuments. The NAM must pay the costs of maintaining and restoring monumental heritage and not just economic but also other considerations. She also asks for a special team with the national coordinator. Those are things that seem wise to me. I have already told Mr Bosman that this will be reflected in the work of the NPR by us and in the implementation of the National Coordinator. I'll leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. In the motion in part No. 108 Mrs Dik-Faber immediately calls for maximum conversion capacity. I'm deceiving that motion. A maximum deployment of the conversion capacity will be discussed when we start looking at whether there are safety reasons that give rise to a different system, namely the system whereby the maximum deployment is the basis for the gas supply in the Netherlands. I've indicated the question points. I don't want to do that right now. I want to examine it first and not make a decision until 1 January 2016. I therefore advise against this motion. In the motion for a resolution, Mr Smaling asks for item No. 109 to think away and re-assess all the bodies that have been built up in recent times. This concerns the Ombudsman, the independent counsellor, about the Dialogue table, about the committee's poignant cases, about a steering committee that helped me to put the NPR properly into application and about the guidance committee that now supervises the scientific investigation in preparation for the decision-making on 1 July 2015. It seems very unwise to me to think all of that away. I think the National Coordinator will be able to see if streamlining is possible. At the moment, we must apply and make good use of what we have built up with great conviction and after a great deal of consultation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u289	That streamlining is exactly what I'm asking. It says "think away" and not "send away." I am not saying that all those services I mentioned have done bad work. That's not the point at all. It has become a mess of organisations, and that helps people not know where to go anymore. Different organisations have different quake models. So there's every reason to think them away, like there was nothing, and then figure out what you need in this situation. I think that's a good idea. That streamlining is precisely what it is intended to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u290	I have just mentioned the authorities involved. They are all bodies that we have created with our common sense. We believe they are playing a good role at the moment. If the national coordinator is there, there will be a new public service on the ground. I think it is right that this official, with his powers and his staff, should see what is there and what can be streamlined. That could happen by then. However, I do not think it is right to say now that what is there does not contribute to confidence and should be thought away. You thus wrongly disqualified the Dialogue table, the steering committee and the guidance committee, the independent supervisor and the Technical Committee on Soil Movement. I'm dissuading the motion. In the motion in part No. 110 states "develop scenarios to reduce production ceilings 2015 and 2016 to 21 billion'. There can be no question of reducing the production ceiling 2015 to 21 billion. I'd advise against that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u291	I'm a little surprised. Despite the Minister's obstinacy, he really said today in the debate that a reduction is also on the agenda for him, that he wants to do further research and that he is basing himself on the bandwidth indicated by GTS itself. That bandwidth is 21 billion cubic metres to 35 billion cubic metres of gas a year. So the motion just asks: look at that minimum and then make it clear in scenarios, including for the Chamber, what the pros and cons might be and what risks we should take into account. I merely ask the Minister to examine the lowest number of that bandwidth, that is all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u292	It's 21 billion plus 2 and 33 billion plus 2, so the equation is 23 billion to 35 billion. Those numbers, i.e. 23 billion m or 35 billion m, could be addressed if we decided on 1 January 2016 to move to another system. In an average year, this amounts to about 30 billion m. The downside of that is, as I said, that it's all going to be very fluctuating. I don't know what effect that has on safety. So this will only be discussed from 1 January 2016. It says here that the production ceiling can be reduced to 21 billion m of gas by 2015. It really isn't. I'm deceiving the motion in part No. 110.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u293	No, I'm asking you to map the scenarios. If the minsiter says it should be 21 plus 2 billion, we ask the scenario for 21 plus 2.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u294	I'm not going to develop a scenario to bring a production ceiling for 2015 to 21 plus 2 billion m. I am going to take a decision on 1 January 2016 in the context of a possible transition to a different system and after all aspects have been properly examined and there is an opinion on the matter from state supervision. There are quite a few things about it that you can really question. With respect to 2016 and 2015, this is really not in the picture. In the motion in part No. 111 begins Mrs Ouwehand that we must stop producing fertilizer. There's no way I'm going to give a positive opinion on that. Nor do I think that this is the debate now to make a ruling on a motion to stop the production of fertilizer. I advise against this motion. In the motion in part No. 112 by Mrs Van Tongeren c.s. it is stated that the ceiling for 2015 should be reduced to a maximum of 30 billion m per year. I do not think that is wise because we have already taken a decision of 39.4 billion m, but now, as an alternative, a security of supply of 33 plus 2 or 35 billion m. 30 billion m is not on the picture. This may be reflected as from 1 January 2016 if we could accept these fluctuations for security reasons because that would be an improvement. The motion in part No. So I'm gonna dissuade 911. The motion in part No. 113 by Mrs Van Tongeren and Mrs Ouwehand, on the need for State supervision of the Mines to come under the responsibility of another ministry. The why escapes me. I have said that state surveillance is completely independent and that there has never been a complaint about it, from anyone else, that state surveillance can freely do its job and that its accommodation in a ministry is equivalent to comparable services in other ministries. So this is really The Hague's slide that nobody else gets along with. I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u295	I can't imagine that the Minister hasn't been told that there's been an incredible amount of complaints about State surveillance of the Mines. I would like to continue the motion until the debate on the report of the Security Research Council. Then there will be further justification why it would be very sensible to have a truly independent state supervision. This motion merely asks for an assessment of the options and the advantages and disadvantages. So if the Minister is so sure that that is not negotiable at the moment, then we wait until we have that other report.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u296	At the request of Mrs Van Tongeren, I propose her motion (33529, No. 113). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u297	The independence of state supervision is not in my hands, at the Ministry of Economic Affairs, with my predecessor and, in my opinion, with my successor in any way. The motion in part No. 114 is about a ruling that the Chamber should make according to Mrs Van Tongeren and others. to make a plan to quickly reduce the domestic consumption of Groninger gas. The inland consumption of Groninger gas is the consumption in 98% of households in the Netherlands. For this we have ambitions in the transition towards renewable energy and energy saving ambitions. We have all laid them down in the energy agreement. That's all very well in it. I really don't need another plan for that. I have all the energy agreement. I already have the European Commission directive. The motion in part No. 114 therefore has no added value in my view. For this reason, I humbly advise against the motion in part No. 114. In the motion in part No. 115 ask Mrs Van Tongeren and the co-subscribers to rule out the fact that gas extraction will go up again after 1 July. The decision on the 39.4 billion cub is there. That decision has also been published, so it can now be responded to. It has been said that we must reconsider the decision on 1 July. For this review, the security of supply element has now been introduced, set at 35 billion m for this year. I think these are the two choices that lie ahead on 1 July. Several groups have already expressed their views on this point. I am happy to take note of that, but I will take a decision on it at the moment when all the information and opinions within are available. That decision will not come until 1 July. I am not going to say in February what I will decide on 1 July. For that reason, I advise against the motion in part No. 115.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u298	I assume it is clear to the Minister that the motion contains the exact words spoken by the group chairman of one of the government's parties this week. So the Minister says he completely disagrees with one of the parties on which the government supports. I would ask the Minister to take another look at the motion. Or does the Minister say that he does not care very much what Mr Samsom says?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u299	I say that what Mrs Van Tongeren and the co-subsidiaries are asking for in the motion is premature, for the reasons I have just indicated. It'll be on July 1st, but I have to do pre-work for that. When that pre-work is done and there's an opinion, I'll make a decision. The political groups may already have a view on what will come out of it, but it is too early for me. I'm gonna figure it out first, and not until it's been figured out and I've got a piece of advice, I'm gonna make a decision. I take note of the views with great interest, but I am not going to anticipate a decision that I will not take for five months. I need the motion in part no. 115, therefore, really dissuade it. In the motion in part No. 116, tabled by Mr Vos and Mr Bosman, will be presented with a decision on gas extraction after 1 July. A decision will also be submitted on the extraction of gas after 1 January 2016. I have just said a few words about this. That leads me to leave the judgment on this motion to the Chamber. In the motion in part No. 117 Mr Dijkgraaf and Mrs Dik-Faber asked the government to speed up the transition to sustainable heat by making it financially more attractive. I certainly do not rule out the possibility of this being discussed, but this will only be done in the heat vision that I have promised the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u300	Mrs. Mulder...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u301	Mr. Chairman, may I have a moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u302	Excuse me, I thought you were done. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u303	It's my fault. There's a heat bill and there's gonna be a heat vision. In this heat vision, I will indicate what is desired, how we could achieve it and what resources are needed to achieve it. I would suggest to the two authors of the motion that we wait for the heat vision and then see if they can make the motion in part No. I would like to see the vote put to the vote. If they want to see the motion put to the vote now, I must discourage her.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u304	Mrs Mulder would like to comment on a previous motion. I'll take the motion in part No. 102.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u305	My question concerns the motion in part No. 116.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u306	Your name is not under that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u307	No, but I would like to ask a question about that motion which is very relevant to the debate. Is it conceivable for the Minister to increase gas extraction after 1 July?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u308	In the motion in part No. 116 are being done a few things. As a result of these statements and what I said in the first term, I have said that I will leave the opinion on this motion to the House. Then I come to the question of what is and is not conceivable. In view of the debate here in the Chamber, I do not think it would be useful to anticipate that. I have indicated which two options are on the agenda on 1 July. I will have an investigation carried out into the aspects involved. I've also indicated what I need for that. Practical experience is gained with the application of the NPR for existing buildings. There will be risk maps from the NAM, for which five working groups are at work. A guidance committee will function as a channel to the NAM. Then there will be an opinion from the committee on risk weighting and exceedances. This whole thing will end up at the SodM before 1 May. Then the SodM can give me an opinion on this. That's what I want on June 1st. Then I would like to prepare a decision that will be taken by 1 July at the latest. That's the M.O. I do not think that making statements about what is or is not conceivable contributes to the smooth running of that process. I shall therefore leave it to the House to decide on the motion for a resolution. 116 to the Chamber late.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u309	Then I conclude that it is not unthinkable that it still goes up. That's what makes this motion a wash nose.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u310	I think that is a wonderful conclusion, but of course it is up to Mrs Mulder to draw her conclusions. I've just expressed my approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u311	Mrs Van Veldhoven, we are also talking about the motion on item No. 116?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u312	I almost have a technical point about this motion. The second recital states that GTS has substantiated that the lowest possible level of gas extraction necessary for security of supply is 35 billion. But the Minister's letter says that 33 billion a year is enough. According to the Minister, was the 35 billion actually set as minimum by GTS? Because then we also know that there may be more needs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u313	It says here: "to prepare a extraction decision based on the lowest possible level of gas extraction necessary for security of supply and safety." I think it's very well put here. In the debate, the spokesmen also explained how they see it. I've explained it from my point of view, too. The conclusion I drew from the exchange of views in this debate in the Chamber is that I can leave the opinion on this motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u314	But then the Minister says: it is at least 35 billion. So he thinks it's imaginable or imaginable that it would go up there?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u315	I am asked what I think is imaginable or not, but I would like to choose my own words. I just did. That has led me to leave the judgment to the Chamber in the light of how it is formulated here. I think that the debate in the Chamber, as the spokesmen have said and as I have said, logically leads to this conclusion: Court judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u316	I listened very carefully to the Minister. The Minister has been transparent about it. Doesn't it mean that it can't be ruled out that it could be 39.4 billion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u317	I do not believe that it will promote the process if I make further statements about it. The decision of 39.4 billion is there, but I have decided to present another option, based on security of supply, in addition to the 39.4 billion option. I've heard all the views in the Chamber. On the basis of these views, the political groups will, I hope, all listen and look at the information once I have received the information I need, I will also make it public and then I will listen to SodM's opinion and my position. After that, they will once again consider and draw their conclusions. I'm not going to anticipate that right now. I will not disturb the process of making good decisions on 1 July by choosing different wordings for what I have already said.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u318	In my view, the wording of the answer is at least consistent with what the Minister said in the first term, but I found the first period more transparent, because then the Minister simply said "ready to go" and I think that is the fair story that the Minister has also put down here that there is indeed no way to exclude it from becoming 39.4 billion. Maybe it'll be 35 billion, maybe it'll be 39.4 billion, but if this motion makes it, Groningen won't know until after 1 July.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u319	Then the motion to part No. 119 by Mr Öztürk. Mr Öztürk says that we need to carry out in-depth research in order to move the residents who want to move them to safe areas. I don't see it that way. I think that we have a responsibility, that I have a particular responsibility to the individual people in the area there, who are now going through a difficult period, to reverse that, to give those people a new perspective and to ensure that the damage treatment goes properly, that the reinforcement goes properly, that compensatory measures are in place and that sensible decisions are taken on the extraction of gas. As a result, I would like the Groningen area to be maintained in its cohesion. Research focused on moving to safe areas, that's not what I'm here for. That's why I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u320	That can be parallel to each other, can't it? You can do and continue to take all these measures that you are now taking, but in parallel you can have an investigation conducted. If your measures do not work, you will also know what conditions the citizens want there. In that case, you will also have a solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u321	An investigation aimed at moving residents to safe areas runs counter to what I want to achieve there. I'm not willing to do that, and I'm deceiving that motion. Then I come to the motion on part No. 120 by Mrs Van Veldhoven. It asks the Cabinet to state that it is unthinkable that gas extraction should again exceed 35 billion annually after 1 July, and invites the Cabinet to take a decision now. I don't want to make a decision right now. I want to make a decision on 1 July. That's why I'm deposing this motion. In the motion in part No. Mrs Van Veldhoven argued that the independent counsellor should be able to operate independently, that complaints by the Ombudsman should be able to deal with the independent counsellor in Groningen and that the national coordinator should also visit the Dialogue Table regularly. I am particularly concerned about the independent counsel. Right now, it's there for the damage settlement. I don't know if he's gonna have to work for the entire board agreement. Part of the entire board agreement is the Economic Board. If a grant application is rejected and, as always, is open to appeal, then I would not know why it should be addressed to the independent counsel. I know, however, that there is a reason to consider whether the various complaints procedures that are now in place can be streamlined. I am going to look into that and I would like to consider Mrs Van Veldhoven and her co-signators once I have looked at it and informed the Chamber of whether there is still any reason to put this motion to the vote. I therefore propose that Mrs Van Veldhoven continue this motion until I have looked into it and informed the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u322	It is, of course, about the independent counselor, to clarify that point. In popular terms, we call him 'the Ombudsman', but independent counsel is, of course, his correct title. It is not just about streamlining procedures. It is also a question of ensuring that citizens can actually contact the independent counsellor in areas where they should be able to lodge a complaint. At least I'll hold the motion for the time being. Perhaps I will come to a formula with the Minister that he can live with right away. But anyway, I'm interested in that letter. When does the Minister intend to send it to the Chamber? Then I'll be able to include them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u323	I can't say that at the moment. This also depends a little on the extent to which I intend to involve the national coordinator. I think it would be wise to do so, because it is true that this national coordinator is joining again. I believe that this is an opportunity for her or him to look at what should be done with all the complaints procedures. I can only say that I really want to do this as soon as possible because I want to make progress. I need that national coordinator and I think this is a real point. As far as I am concerned, perhaps the quartermaster can take a first look at that. I say to Mrs Van Veldhoven that I will continue to follow this closely and will come to the Chamber as soon as reasonably possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u324	I thank the Minister for saying so clearly that he wants to make this urgent and even talk to the quartermaster about it. I take it, therefore, that this is not going to take months. That's why I'll hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u325	At the request of Mrs Van Veldhoven, I propose her motion (33529, No. 120). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u326	In the last motion, that of Mrs Van Veldhoven and Mrs Mulder on item No. 121 states that a ten-year timetable for the earthquake-proofing of houses must be established and that I must report to the Chamber on this before the summer of 2015. I don't think it's wise to make a ten-year timetable. This Dutch Practice Directive is still in full development. I have just consulted the first version of the steering committee's opinion. I expect to make a decision for that NPR in September. The final document will then come in two or three years' time and will have to be applied. So these standards are still under development, so I can't set out a ten-year path right now. That would be meaningless. Moreover, I cannot report in the summer of 2015. I can come up with my conclusions at the earliest in September, partly as a result of the consultation. They are only about the Dutch Practice Directive and not about its final successor. For that reason, I have to make the motion in part no. 121 dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u327	Of course, it is not a problem if the Minister comes here just after summer or autumn. If that is a problem, I am certainly prepared to amend the motion accordingly. I am concerned that the Minister's letter now sets out only a perspective for five years. It is clear that a maximum of 23 000 homes can be dealt with in five years. That's what the Minister himself says. We all know that the task is about 35,000 homes. I do not think it is a question of setting out exactly how the last house will be dealt with in that final year in such a ten-year plan. However, it is important to outline a timetable based on principles such as first tackling the greatest risks and then working towards the lower risks. On the basis of such a timetable, everyone knows that all houses that pose a risk are to come. Of course, it is important that we continue to learn and that the Minister has the space to take the scholar with him in that plan. However, the question of principle is whether the Minister is prepared to say that I am looking not only at a period of five years but at a longer period, because I want to offer a perspective for all these houses.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u328	For all houses, perspective is offered. I believe that in Groningen all houses must comply with the standard of once every 100,000 years. Striving to meet the standard of 1 time every 10,000 years is an intermediate phase. I suspect it will turn out that with the measures we are currently taking in view of the standard of 1 time every 10,000 years, we will eventually be able to meet the standard of 1 time every 100,000 years. We are currently working on the basis of all kinds of conservative estimates that have been made. They are also reinforced by a conservative estimate of the risk of exceedance. So things are really still moving. I want all houses to meet that standard once every 100,000 years. I will work on this in a planned and consistent manner. However, I am not going to set a ten-year timetable. I will set a timetable for the houses in Groningen to reach the standard of 1 time every 100,000 years as soon as possible, so that these houses are treated as the houses in the rest of the Netherlands and so that Groningers are treated as the people in the rest of our country. However, I do not recommend this motion, which calls for a ten-year timeframe and a report for the summer of 2015.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u329	I share with the Minister that it is important to reduce the risk as quickly as possible. That approach to go first to a standard of 1 time every 10,000 years, I think a lot of people are going to help quickly. I see the problem the Minister has with asking for a report for the summer. I have already responded to that. I therefore believe that this problem has been overcome. I'll think about that ten-year timetable. I do not hear the Minister objecting to the other points in the motion. If that ten-year timetable were to come out on the basis of the commitments made by the Minister, he would have no objection to the rest of the motion, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u330	I've come to the conclusion that I'm deceiving the motion. There is also in the motion that priority should be given to all houses around or below a risk level of 1 in 1,000, but I have already informed the Chamber that I am going to do this. It also states that I must consult with residents of monumental homes. I believe that all residents should be consulted, because it is a major intervention for everyone. I do not believe that these other points have any added value. These other points do not lead me to believe that the motion should not be discouraged. With this I have the motion in part no. 121 dissuaded. I hope I have responded properly to all the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u331	Mrs. Mulder has another request.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u332	The Minister made a number of suggestions regarding my motion in part No. 102. I have taken on board the Minister's suggestions and come to the text: 'calls on the government to deal as fully as possible with the damage caused by earthquake damage and soil degradation and the strengthening of the property'. Although I still have the recitals, as I said in the debate, I removed them from the motion. The amended motion was co-signed by the same members.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u333	The motion-Agnes Mulder c.s. (, No ) has been amended to read as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to deal as fully as possible with earthquake damage and soil degradation and property reinforcement,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported. She gets no, was no. 102 ().
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u334	I agree with that operative part. I'll leave the verdict on this modified motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u335	Mr Smaling, you have one final question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u336	I have another request. The Minister and I have not enjoyed each other very much today, I fear, but I have asked him if he is prepared to respond to our coverage plan for 30 billion cubic metres a year. It doesn't have to be right away, but it would be nice if he wanted to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u337	If I get proposals from the SP group or from Mr Smaling, which is generally the same, I will be happy to study them and I will respond if that is appreciated.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-11.u338	Thank you. The votes on the motions tabled will take place at the end of the sitting. I don't know when that's gonna be. I would like to thank the Minister and all the participants, but above all the people in the public gallery and the people at home for all the attention they have given to this debate today.
