ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-01-tweedekamer-3.u1	Mr. Chairman. It has already happened to many travellers: you forget to check out with your OV-chipkaart. As a result, more money is debited from your OV-chipkaart than you have actually travelled for. That money disappears into the wallet of the transport companies. The total amount involved is EUR 32 million. That's a huge amount of money. Last year a motion by GroenLinks and D66 was adopted to ensure that this money returns to the traveller. For D66, the traveler is at the forefront. For travellers, the OV-chipkaart really needs to be much clearer, simpler and more user-friendly. It is therefore disappointing that De Telegraaf said yesterday that the money does not go back to the traveler. In fact, they didn't even make a jar for this. That is why I have the following questions to the Secretary of State. Is this message correct? What has the Secretary of State done so far, even after the House's motion, himself? And hasn't a potty been made yet? After all, the money belongs to the travellers and not to the carriers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-01-tweedekamer-3.u2	I give the floor to the Secretary of State for Infrastructure and the Environment to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-01-tweedekamer-3.u3	Mr. Chairman. Thank you for giving me the honour of opening the parliamentary year with you. I know the D66 motion and I thank Mrs Hachchi for the questions. The principle is: in case of forgetting to check out, the money has to be returned. That's my principle, too. I share that with the D66 Group. Many measures have been taken in recent years to reduce the 1.7% which is now going down below 1%. Unfortunately, we will always love people who walk on the train a bit dreamy and probably forget to check in, but by now there is the chance to recover the money until six months later. A number of other measures have also been launched. I believe that these measures together should form the pieces of the whole amount, in order to show that the money goes back to the traveller. That's what we agreed to with the Chamber. That's also what I agreed to with the NOVB. We are in the process of rolling out the measures and soon, I hope before 1 October, you will receive the progress report from the NOVB. That's what's being discussed this week. We are concerned that these measures are transparent for you and that they ensure that the amount is reduced and that, over time, the amounts that are attached to these measures become clear. I have to say something about that $32 million. During the period it was monitored, it was discovered and established that the amount involved was 16 million. There has been no re-monitoring. The agreement is that this will happen in 2016. Then we'll also see if that amount goes down and if that percentage goes down.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-01-tweedekamer-3.u4	Of course, it would be best if the travellers themselves didn't forget to check out at all. However, it also appears that it is not always easy for the traveller. Let me give you a few examples. The Secretary of State talks about people in love who don't have their heads on when they should check out, but it's not always clear where to check in and out. There's a jungle of chimps at stations. If you check out of a wrong O.V. company, you accidentally check in for the second time, now at another company. That is also the reality. And if travellers then forget to check out, I would say: make it as easy as possible to ask for that money back. Let me give you another example. Now the traveller is redirected to different websites instead of one clear place where you can ask for your money back. The Secretary of State does mention the measures that are being taken. However, there is a great deal of money involved, and I see signs that the problems are continuing. I am concerned because there seems to be so little progress in this area. In the end, it's about the traveler's money. I want to hear from this Secretary of State how quickly she's going to get the money back to the traveler. If the Secretary of State can deal with her role in this, I would also like to see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-01-tweedekamer-3.u5	As far as the two examples are concerned, one of the measures is indeed to make them easier to find. That's important, and that's what they're doing at a number of stations. At six stations they are placed or placed, at ten other stations that is still done this year. The remaining 24 stations will be done next year. It is quite right that the other example should be mentioned. People go through a jungle of websites. We have solved that, too. One hotline has come for all carriers to ask for money back. So what does this Secretary of State do? This Secretary of State has ensured that all these different measures are used by carriers, so that the amount of 16 million falls sharply. Preventive action is taken; it is made easier to check out. This will avoid mischecking, but not just that. Once it has been done, it is also ensured that it is as simple and easy as possible to get the money back from the traveller. The progress report will come in a few weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-01-tweedekamer-3.u6	If I listen to the Secretary of State like that, the news we read in the paper isn't correct. Can the Secretary of State confirm that? In her two answers I hear the message: there is nothing wrong, we arrange it, we already have one website, in short it is nonsense what is in the media. However, I would like to hear from the Secretary of State whether this is the case and whether it will also ensure that that money is returned to the traveller. The Secretary of State states that the amount is incorrect. So what are we talking about if that 32 million isn't right? How quickly can it ensure that the money ends up with the person it belongs to, namely the traveller?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-01-tweedekamer-3.u7	I leave it to the person who wrote it down that word that little has come of it. I'm here to tell you what my facts are. I maintain that it is simply very important that that money should go back to that traveller and that I am fully committed to doing so, in accordance with the agreements we have made on this matter. The Chamber will have another progress report. The NOVB will be meeting about it this week. So I think it's good that these messages come together.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-01-tweedekamer-3.u8	The first question of the new season, I would like to say; I immediately believe that this Secretary of State feels that this money should be returned. There is now an adopted motion from myself and Mrs Van Veldhoven from 2013 which states that the money must be returned. We've always heard from the Secretary of State: I'm working on it, it's getting better, we're working on it. When does this Secretary of State think it really needs to be arranged? We'll get a report later and another evaluation in 2016. Through her actions, this Secretary of State actually accepts that the traveller does not get the money he is entitled to back. Isn't that actually the case secretly, namely that we just have to accept it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-01-tweedekamer-3.u9	On the contrary. You know the ambition of the carriers to bring it down to below 1%. It's never gonna be zero. I also think it is important that we keep looking again and again at where things go most wrong and how we can solve that. There is no solution to this problem. It will have to be a combination of solutions. I have just indicated that a number of stations are being set up with poles. We want it to be as close to zero as possible, but unfortunately I cannot guarantee that it will be zero, because that is not the reality either. I do believe that it should be minimal, that it should be transparent where that money remains and that it should be returned. The measures taken, such as the website, should make it more accessible for people to recover their money. As far as that website is concerned, it used to be that people had three months. The deadline has now been extended to six months. There are, therefore, several ways of facilitating the traveler optimally in order to reduce the number of cases as quickly as possible. As agreed with the Court, a review and monitoring of what has happened and whether the measures have had an effect and the number of cases actually dropped in 2016.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-01-tweedekamer-3.u10	The importance of travellers is central. We agree that the money has to be returned to the traveler. The NS has recently launched a trial in which passengers are actively informed in the event of a missed check-out. When can we see a substantial decrease in the missed check-outs? The NS isn't the only carrier. Have other carriers also launched a similar pilot with which we can actually use an effective measure in advance?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-01-tweedekamer-3.u11	Indeed, NS travellers are now automatically reminded that it has gone wrong, so that they can easily get their money back. There is also another concession provider for regional carriers. They make their agreements with the provinces in general. I think it is important that there should be more transparency, but that is another way. I do, too, because I think it is important for the traveller to be treated the same everywhere, because we are talking about one traveller.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-01-tweedekamer-3.u12	Good to note that there are many good ideas and intentions to improve the situation in the future. Is the amount remaining in the jars of the various carriers still to be returned to the right travellers and if not, what will happen to that money? Or is this used for a faster single check-in/check-out or something like that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-01-tweedekamer-3.u13	These are two different questions. I do believe that the money that does not go back to the traveller should also be used for the benefit of travellers. The NS wants to be clear about that, too. In the project single check-in/check-out to run on the Valley line as a pilot, the NS is involved, which has now invested in it. At the moment there are also conversations going on, including with the ACM, about how we are going to arrange on the Valley line and what is and is not allowed. On that line, two companies are going to do it together. On that particular project I will also come back specifically to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-01-tweedekamer-3.u14	I believe that the problem is underestimated, because EUR 16 million, of course, involve thousands of travellers who have been damaged. The Secretary of State comes here with a nice story that she's gonna do her best for this, that it's gonna be okay, and we're just gonna have to wait and see. But this has been going on since 2013. So doesn't the Secretary of State think they're extremely underestimating it and does she really feel responsible for the traveller? She says that the traveller should come first, but I do not see that in her actions. It's a mess on the trail, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-01-tweedekamer-3.u15	I certainly do not agree with the last comment. We have made agreements on this subject, some of which still have to be dealt with. I think it is important to look at which of these measures has the most impact now, because all these measures together should lead to the amount of 16 million.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-01-tweedekamer-3.u16	On the question of how to facilitate payment in public transport, next Thursday the Chamber will hold a round table on the O.V. chip card. This message also alarmed the VVD group, because other agreements have been made. The NOVB will present a progress report this autumn. Is the Secretary of State also prepared to agree concrete objectives with the NOVB to indeed bring the forgotten check-in or check-out back to zero, preferably? That is wishful thinking, but at least to bring it down substantially and to agree on objectives with each other?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-01-tweedekamer-3.u17	That objective has also been agreed, and I have also shared it with your Chamber. We want out of the 1.7% of check-in and check-out that doesn't go well back to below 1%. That's what we're doing right now. I expect that the House will receive the report not the autumn but within two weeks. That is what the NOVB is talking about this week. I expect this report to show which package of measures has been implemented. The aim is, of course, to see which measure is most effective and what it delivers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-01-tweedekamer-3.u18	I find it disappointing that the Secretary of State does not take strong measures, such as removing money from carriers when people forget to check out. Then carriers will do everything they can to make sure people check in and out. Is the Secretary of State prepared to remove the money that is now left with the carriers because people forget to check out so that carriers get an incentive? And if not, why not?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-01-tweedekamer-3.u19	The money is basically the traveler's, so there's a website where the money just goes back to the corresponding traveler, who may have forgotten, hopefully in love and dreamy, the check-in. It's gonna be okay. Furthermore, I think it is important for the carriers themselves to do everything in their power to take measures to reduce the incidence and to resolve it quickly if they do. That's the two moments. The package of measures also makes clear within the NOVB what the carriers themselves do with, among other things, the money, because that has to go back to the traveller. I think that's a very good way to fix it. I do not know whether it is a positive incentive to remove the money and then tell the carriers to solve it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-01-tweedekamer-3.u20	Thank you for your answers and thanks for coming to the Chamber.
