ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u1	I would like to welcome the Secretary of Defense, her officials and anyone who is watching and listening in. Seven speakers have signed up for this debate. Speaking time is known: four minutes per group and two minutes for a single group. First, I give the floor to Mr Van Dijk on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. We're talking chrome paint. That's paint that's life-threatening and carcinogenic. Some people are sick of it. At the chrome paint hotline 2,100 people registered, the Minister writes on 30 April. 600 people have complaints. 341 people have applied for the coulance scheme, the compensation for the people who have come forward. How is the processing of these applications going? We get complaints from people because their application was rejected. For example, they have bladder cancer or the painter's disease OPS, but this is not recognised. How does the Minister know that these diseases are not caused by chromium paint? Can diseases still be added? There are also complaints about the lack of medical records at the Department of Defense. How's that? The hotline no longer runs through the ABP, but through the CAOP. Why is this? Is the message that the ABP couldn't get all the job records from the D.O.D.? What happens to the old ABP registrations? Are they going to be taken? Does the Minister understand that this causes irritation to a lot of people? Does she know how many people are eligible for the coulance scheme? Is there any possibility of appealing against a rejection? The quickscan shows that in five locations there have been exceedances of the use of chromium paint. So until recently the paint was still working unsafely. Does the Minister think that that is acceptable? Anyone who looks at the recommendations on working with chromium paint will think: why hasn't this been settled a long time? It is logical that work should only be carried out in places where the necessary facilities are available. In addition, the Rijk Audit Service concludes that there are too few personnel in the field of company safety. Not all risk inventories appear to be in order, although this is mandatory within the occupational health legislation. That's crazy! The Minister is going to update the matter now, but that, of course, should have been settled by now. Does she recognise that the Defense Department has failed here at the expense of the employees? Does she share the view that from this quickscan you can see that the DOD has failed as a good employer? In the NATO storage place Eygelshoven has been found chromium-6, as well as lead, mercury and uranium. It is still unclear to what extent people are really exposed. Additional measurements shall be made for this purpose. What happens in the meantime? Are these rooms being sealed off now? What about other areas where these substances may have been used? Is there any research going on there? The SP has seen measurement lists that say that even more chromium-6 was found in Eygelshoven in 2002, before the rooms were cleaned. There is an excess of 800%. Are we going to read this back in the RIVM report? It is very important that there should be no new victims. The best solution is to find an alternative. To what extent is an alternative available? According to the Minister, the use of chromium paints is necessary, otherwise the employability will be compromised. Is that true? Is there really no alternative to chromium paint or are alternatives just more expensive? Or, for example, are the Americans forcing the Defense Department to continue to work with chrome paint, so is it more of a legal issue? I'd like to be more clear about that. In my view, there are alternatives and it is therefore a question of wanting and not being able to do so. They're sick people. They're sick people. You'll have to do everything you can to avoid the paint. The Minister agrees with me, doesn't he? The REACH Directive also strengthens the policy. We think it is irresponsible that chrome paints are still being used, because the Minister cannot guarantee that they are 100% safe. I have therefore asked for a moratorium, and I have held a motion for that. I doubt that the Minister should really continue to use chromium paint. It wants this either because there are costs involved or because, for example, the United States makes demands. This is extremely painful for the people who still have to work with chrome paint. I think there are alternatives. I think the Minister should be very clear about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u3	Mr. Chairman. Almost a year ago, the first reports in the media about working unsafely with chrome paint came to the Department of Defense. Several revelations followed and the Chamber continued to press for clarification. After first some reactive sputtering, the Minister finally decided to flee to the front: large-scale investigations and let the situation get to the bottom of it. My group welcomes the fact that the Minister has it all sorted out. We are less positive about the pace of implementation. We are discussing the first results of the investigations today. At least that is what we would like to discuss, because unfortunately, a year later, there is still little information available. D66 considers it unacceptable that people can still be exposed to this toxic paint, while the health risks are well known. Is the urgency to tackle this problem sufficiently felt? In August last year it was announced that a historical investigation would be started into working with the toxic chromium paint. On 2 March this year, the Minister said that the research questions would be there in the first quarter of this year. Now it appears that the first research plans will only be there this summer. My group finds it unimaginable that this is going so slowly. I'd like to hear a response from the Minister. It has been said that this RIVM study would take one or two years. We are now a year ahead and the research plan is still not there. When does the Minister think she can send the full investigation to the Chamber? When does she expect the first intermediate results? We also see delays in the current investigations. Last September, the Minister wrote that in that year she would publish the first research results of the GMD investigations. There is no record of any exposure or risk. What exactly has been investigated? All five former NATO workshops? What exactly are the results of this investigation? Are the staff exposed or not exposed? From the Defence-wide quickscan to the ten locations where the toxic paint is still being worked on, a large number of recommendations followed. The minister says she's working on this. The people in those locations are still not working as safely as possible. Does the Minister think that's acceptable? In that quickscan it is also said that occasionally the toxic chromium paint is used in other locations, but that it has not been investigated and that it is unclear from many materials whether it contains chromium-6. Are those locations and that equipment still under investigation? When does the Minister share these results with the Chamber? The Minister will consider whether it is possible to work with chromium paints in a limited number of places. However, she did not know this until September. Why is this four more months? It is unacceptable if there are still unsafe situations. It is also unacceptable to talk about the lack of operational safety on which the Audit Service has sounded the necessary alarm bells. It is also unacceptable that all these investigations take so long. D66 wants additional people to be deployed to put security in place in the defence sector, including all the measures and information that go with it. I would like to hear a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u4	Mr. Chairman. The facts and figures don't lie. Others have already said it, but I repeat it again. Over 2,100 employees and former employees have reported to the Defense Department because of the toxic paint issue. Of these 600 people have health problems, no less than 600! Many of them are deadly sick and see their bodies degenerate. That's the central point right now. However, five of the ten defence sites under investigation are still working on this toxic chromium paint. Air standards are exceeded and dangerous dust particles are still swirling around. That's disturbing, because for 15 years, the Department of Defense has known about the inadequate protection of personnel. Then the rhetorical question is whether anything has been learned from the lessons of the past. I understand that this process is now under way, but it has got off to a bit late. The Minister has repeatedly said that the personnel are the most important capital of the Defense Department. However, this capital is not adequately managed. I refer, for example, to historical research into past events and to the question of whether and how people have become ill because of this paint. A year after the start of this study, hardly any progress has been made. The investigation continues and the uncertainty for the victims continues. In some cases this has been going on for a very long time and in many cases even too long. Then there are also alarming reports of current company security in the Defense Department. They don't sound right, and they indicate a little contempt for the staff. Apparently foreign missions in faraway countries take precedence over the operational security of Defence personnel in the Netherlands. I have three questions about the RIVM investigation. I'll start the historical investigation. It would originally take one or two years, but now only the preparation has taken a year. Does the Minister see a chance to speed that up? I told you, the victims deserve clarity. When does the Minister expect to be able to provide that clarity? Will it take another year or two years or doesn't the Minister know? I want a clear answer to those questions. Not for myself, but for the victims who watch or listen in today. Then use chrome paint at the current locations. Thus, while historical research is progressing slowly, new abuses are rapidly following each other. Every time we receive a government letter on toxic paint, something else turns out to be wrong. Standards are still being exceeded in five locations. There are personal protective equipment there, but the technical facilities are obviously hopelessly obsolete. What measures will the Minister take to adapt old technical provisions to the times? The question is, in particular, what period of time it will do so. The PVV Group believes that both of these points should be taken into account as a matter of urgency, both for personal protective equipment and for the adaptation of technical equipment to the requirements of the present time. No concessions should be made on either of these points. Can the Minister guarantee that Russian roulette will no longer be played with the health of the staff in and around the spray booths and other workshops? Can she guarantee that this will happen now and not after further investigations have been carried out? Mr Van Dijk's motion, which he has stopped, is beginning to appeal to me more and more. I say that I have not yet spoken to my group about this, but I find it increasingly interesting. Unsafe situations are inadmissible. Mr. Chairman. I see my speaking time is over. I will keep my comments on industrial safety for the second time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u5	Mr. Chairman. Defense isn't doing well. The organisation is financially undressed and there are persistent problems with equipment and staff. The issue of toxic substances is very poignant. This concerns the care of our military and civilian workers, people who have meant a lot to our country in the past or who are currently working for the Dutch interest. In the past, the Defense Department was aware of the unsafe working environment for these people, but did not take any action. Even now, defence workers claim that toxic paints are still being used, without adequate protection for personnel. For example, many information meetings indicate the lack of personal protective equipment. Is it true that there's a huge shortage of these resources in the Defense Department? We see unsafe situations continuing. During maintenance work at an Apache in Mali, early this year, employees came into contact with the carcinogenic chromium particles. Also, the personnel at the army workshop in Leusden and the air base in Leeuwarden proved to be insufficiently protected. In Volkel, Eindhoven, Gilze-Rijen and Woensdrecht the limits of the quantities of hazardous substances were exceeded. Yesterday it was reported that chrome-6 was used at the old NATO workshop in Eygelshoven and the NATO depot in Brunssum. My group wants the health of defence personnel to be guaranteed. The Minister has stated many times that the personnel are the most important capital of Defence. These fine words must be translated into deeds. This means a safe working environment for all military and civilian workers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u6	I see, if I am not mistaken, that Mr Segers is not present. The next speaker on the list is Mrs Eijsink.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u7	Mr. Chairman. I think there is one thing we share in this Chamber, namely that security risks should be excluded when personnel carry out work on behalf of an employer, whether they are in the Ministry of Defence or wherever. Security is the most important thing we have. As already mentioned, personnel is the backbone of the organization, and certainly of the Defense Department. Nothing can happen without protecting the men and women we broadcast. This protection also applies to the safety risks associated with the use of substances such as chromium-6. In the past period we have talked about it several times. The Minister has informed us of this in many ways. The last debate was on 11 March. Then we received the report from the Coordination Centre Expertise Working Conditions and Health, in which the work force is also represented. I have some questions about that report. In the previous consultations we discussed the coulance regulation. I would like to say the following out loud again. In the modest number of years that I have been allowed to be spokesperson for Defence and People's Representative, I have not yet seen a coulance arrangement put in place in this way. That's what I keep saying. As a result of this coulance arrangement, I ask the Minister how the transfer of the CAOP to the ABP, or vice versa, went. I have heard that there are some abuses in communication. I would like the Minister to take this up. I've read a number of letters from those involved. Can we see whether what has been asked or explained is clear enough? I notice that the language in the letters may be a bit difficult, more difficult than necessary. When you're so close to it, you read such a letter with a huge emotion. Then you want the letter to be clear. You want clear language to be used and it's clear who you can go to or who you should call. My next question is in line with the report we received on 30 April and concerns capacity. Is there sufficient corporate social work to accommodate these people when needed and when requested? Or are there waiting lists? Is there sufficient corporate social work to enter into the conversations needed for this? Then I come to the research question of the RIVM. I would like to have said it out loud: I think everything is going reasonably according to the timeline offered to the Chamber. All this work is done by people. RIVM was involved last year in the letter of 2 March. The Chamber has talked about it. My party, the Labour Party, has also asked for it. We want everyone involved, including the trade unions and those involved. We know, like no other, that the back and the intermediate period of an investigation go much better if the front is well formulated thanks to the fact that one knows well what research needs to be done. I ask the Minister what is the situation with regard to this investigation and how the research questions are being prepared with all those involved, as in the letter of 2 March last. Stand. I have a number of final questions about the study of 30 April last. The Minister has received nine recommendations from the Coordination Centre Expertise Working Conditions Health Care. She says she'll take over. How's she gonna take them next? Does it also wish to respond in greater detail to these recommendations, in particular the first recommendation on spray booths? I was quite surprised about the comments on the letter that came in yesterday, because this was in the report of 30 April last. I asked for this last week at an additional meeting of the procedure. The Minister sent the letter to the Chamber immediately. I'm glad the G.D.D. has been able to provide so much research. It says that the GGD still needs to report on the risk assessment. When's it coming to the room? The letter was sent one-on-one to the Chamber. I am in favour of this. Yesterday I could have even called or e-mailed the GGD Zuid Limburg. The phone number and the e-mail address were in there. In short: all information goes one-on-one to the Chamber. I ask the Minister to continue to take care of this, because transparency and openness are important to all concerned, to defence personnel. We talk about these people here all the time. They must see their safety secured anywhere in the world. That's priority number one for the Labour Party. By the way, I didn't e-mail you right yesterday. That time wasn't in there anymore. Mr President, thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u8	Mrs Eijsink is right to praise the defence staff. It is also right to ask a number of specific questions about the chromium-6 dossier. Does Mrs Eijsink and the Labour Party agree with me that this is going very slowly, all these investigations, from historical investigations to the present? Does she agree with me that it is unacceptable for this substance to continue to be used as safely as possible in the ten locations in which it is used?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u9	I think it is incredibly important what Mrs Hachchi says, namely that you look back and think about speed every time. Yes, it was already known in the 1980s and little has been done in the 1990s. I have the historical research in my ears, too. Since last year August, October or November, the discussion has started. At that time it was necessary to look at the possibilities, the means and the speed with which this was possible. Mrs Hachchi clearly has a point. That is the point I am making with Mrs Hachchi. All those involved are incredibly important, just like the research questions of the RIVM, so we know from experience with other reports. Those research questions, the front, should be good. That is why I ask the Minister whether it takes into account what stakeholders experience, feel and know? What's being measured, what's the question? We all know that results in such a report can be important in the long term. That there's time in there, I understand. That we want speed, yes, so do I. The faster, the better, but quality is also important. So I have already asked the Minister that question, like Mrs Hachchi. She may be able to tell us in a moment which actors are involved before the joint committee headed by Mr Vreeman can proceed with this. That's the next step. That's what I'm attached to. In short: speed, please, but those involved must feel represented and be heard. I've been informed. I also sometimes talk to some people who are involved in this. Those conversations take time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u10	I'm not talking about the history of this file and the investigations. Mrs Eijsink mentioned the 1980s. I am talking about the period when Mrs Eijsink and I are both MPs and involved in this dossier. When this dossier came up again last year, the Minister indicated that RIVM research, the large-scale research, would last one to two years. We've been a year. I hear Mrs Eijsink say that I find her by my side and that she finds me by her side when it comes to the pace that has to be made to do this research right. Quality and speed are important. Do I understand that Mrs Eijsink also thinks that the proposed one or two years should be retained? Mrs Eijsink has not yet responded to my second point that it is unacceptable that the substance should not be used as safely as possible in the locations where it is used.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u11	[[Sentence could not be parsed: Het was een A- en een B-vraag.]] At first, it was about time. Everybody wants speed, of course. The point is that people want to hear and talk. That's what it starts with: empathy, information, talking to each other. And it takes time. RIVM started this. I also refer to trade unions and other organisations. Rightly so, but it does take time. Perhaps, in response to both of our questions, the Minister will be able to give Mrs Hachchi a timetable or something in a moment. If then the Chamber is lying the report there after a year or two asks "wouldn't the Minister have been able to do this or that?" Soon the memory on this side will be over. Then the B question. "Unacceptable" is a very big word. As far as the locations are concerned, I refer to the Minister's previous letter and the general consultation on 11 March, when we also discussed this. So I do not wish to repeat everything that was discussed with care as far as I am concerned. Yes, unacceptable, but everyone here knows that there are no alternative options at the moment, as stated in the RIVM letter of 2 March. If there were, I'd say yes. As a chamber, we've asked the minister to have the G.D.D. do an investigation. So I'd like to get the facts straight. The quality first and the quantity first if possible? No, health first. 'Unacceptable' is a very big word, which we can all say a great many times here, but I do not agree with Mr Van Dijk that, as I said on 11 March in general consultation, everything must be stopped at the Ministry of Defence in the sense of a moratorium. So we find each other for a large part. The defence personnel also want to continue to work on their own. In my view, we share with everyone else the importance of control and also legal control of that protection.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u12	I would ask Members to be somewhat brief in their questions as well as in their answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u13	I am trying to see what Mrs Eijsink's words about the staff are worth in relation to the actions, to the policies she advocates. It stands for the staff, as she says in all the debates, but here we still have the actual situation that we are still working with chromium paints and that this may still happen unsafely. Then the conversation ends quite quickly, because Mrs Eijsink says: it has to, because there are no alternatives. But is that true? I called a researcher once and he says: yes, there are alternatives, you can work with other materials, it's just a matter of wanting. So it's true that you have to work with chrome paint. Don't you accept the Minister's "no" too easily?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u14	Please ask Mrs Eijsink through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u15	When it comes to staff, it's not about what's on paper, it's about what we actually do. Care for staff goes beyond the blue seats here in the Room. I find it difficult to answer Mr Van Dijk's question because he is talking about an investigator and does not mention names. We have not seen any papers from Mr Van Dijk here either, so that is all a little too easy for me. If there are alternatives to this, we also discussed it with the Minister in general consultation on 11 March, and I would appreciate it if Mr Van Dijk himself would appoint it. If Mr Van Dijk, on the basis of substantiated information, is of the opinion that these alternatives exist, then my question to him is why he did not go into his first term, because we have nothing on information from "a" scientist. Safety first, we all share that here, but we'd like to be supported. Perhaps the Minister could be given another service, in the sense that if there is and we do not have that information, Mr Van Dijk shares it with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u16	It's no secret at all. It is well known that you can also work with other materials. So Mrs. Eijsink could have known that herself. I find the attitude of the Labour Party extremely passive. All she does is say: the Minister does not want to stop painting chrome because there are no alternatives now. There are alternatives, and Mrs Eijsink knows that. Unfortunately, the result is that the Labour Party also allows that toxic chromium paint to continue to be used. It's a choice in the end. Do you then stand in front of the staff and do you really want to offer safety or do you recognise that safety cannot be offered and do you accept it and continue to expose these people to this carcinogenic substance? You choose the latter, Mrs Eijsink, and I am very sorry about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u17	We all know in this Chamber that the SP has a different political opinion on a lot of things and also on our military, but I am very sorry that Mr Van Dijk is doing these words in this way. He actually tells me: you are aware of it and you are not doing anything about it. I do not think I have to accept this from Mr Van Dijk. Mr Van Dijk has not yet shown anything in this whole dossier and all the consultations. I have read them all again and looked at what Mr Van Dijk has brought in. If he has alternatives and thinks I should be aware of them, I've done some research, then he should just show them. He's doing big words. It would adorn him if he shared his information with us when it came to our military. As long as Mr Van Dijk does not do so, as long as he does not believe that he can share something and talks about 'the scientists', I cannot do much with his remarks. I've done my homework, I'm not following the Secretary of Defense. I've never done this, and I'm not doing that now. But if something is as it stands and I have done research on it myself, then I am happy to stick to it. Big words aren't gonna do us any good. The staff and the military are no use here either.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u18	Mr Segers has signed off; I am therefore the last speaker to give the floor to Mr Teeven on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u19	Mr. Chairman. It is important to note that the previous speakers have already done that the military are the backbone of our Defence Organisation and we therefore have an extraordinary duty of care for them. Today's debate is to the VVD Group to provide as much clarity as possible for the military and for the employees and former employees involved. The commitment is also that false hopes and false expectations are not created and that the actions of the minister so far are assessed to get the timetables as current and clear as possible with the latest updates. This has already been mentioned by previous speakers. Can the Minister state the state of play today, June 3rd? What is the total number of notifications, how many allocations have been made under the coulance scheme and how many rejections are there? Is there incomplete files, which means that no assessment can be made? If so, why are these files incomplete? This is what I am asking for in the context of the coulance regulation. People who want to make use of the coulance scheme can already take this into account and ensure that no incomplete files are submitted. As I said, it concerns both employees and former employees of the Defense Department. 600 people have complaints, they say. 2,100 people have called on the scheme. Is there anything to say about the causal link between complaints and cause? Is that something stronger? Can the Minister say anything about that? Is the communication between Defence and employees and former employees fully in order? Are there any omissions in that? Can improvements be made? I take back the letter of 2 March 2015. Can the Minister explain why it will never recover any amounts unduly paid under the coulance scheme? I imagine there's always someone bottled up. Shouldn't you just get back? Can the Minister say anything about that? Finally, I come to the alternatives. Mr Van Dijk spoke about this in his speech. Mrs Eijsink also replied to questions put by Mr Van Dijk. Can the Minister state the state of play for possible alternatives in commercial aviation? Are there any and if so, are these alternatives useful in the Defence Organisation? Perhaps the Minister will be able to clarify this today, then we will no longer have to talk about alternatives to chromium-6 in the future. That'll help, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u20	As I said to Mrs Eijsink, I spoke with chemists and other experts. They said that it is best to work with other substances. It used to be said that asbestos was absolutely necessary as a material. Now we know better: the use of asbestos is unacceptable. With chromium-6, it goes that way. I think everyone here is aware of that. It's just a matter of wanting. Does Mr Teven agree with me? He is now asking the Minister himself that it would be extremely painful if we found out that there are of course alternatives and that they could have been used long ago, but that it is a question of costs or legal matters? Does he agree with me that we should now use these alternatives as quickly as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u21	I would like to quote Mr Van Dijk's own words from the motion (34000-X, No. 80) which he submitted on 28 April 2015: "confirming that alternatives to chromium-containing paints are already being worked on in commercial aviation'. It says they're working on it. That motion does not mention that there are alternatives; it is being worked on. In short, the issue is developing. I have read the Minister's letters on alternatives well. I've also been informed once. I understand that there are currently no alternatives within the Defence Organization. Mr Van Dijk writes in his motion that it is being worked on. He does not write that there are alternatives, but that they are being worked on. The Minister says they're not there for the Defense Organization. So let us also clarify this today. If there are alternatives, we will hear it from the Minister. For now, I don't think they're here. In this respect, I share Mrs Eijsink's view. On the basis of the motion tabled by Mr Van Dijk, I have to say that he too does not say that there are alternatives. All he writes is that they're working on it. Perhaps the situation changed between 28 April and 3 June. If that is the case, I would like to hear from Mr Van Dijk what is behind this change.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u22	This is based on: informing yourself. We can all do that. We can all read what is happening and we know that we can work very well without chrome paint. Mr Teeven uses my motion as a source, which is flattering, but I only ask the following question: if we find that it is just as easy to work without chrome paint, does Mr Teeven then share the view that this is extremely painful? Hundreds of people are now suffering from serious health problems caused by chromium paints, which would not have been necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u23	That's a lot of like-dan questions and then assumptions. The causal link between the complaints and the chromium paint is still being investigated at the moment, but this aside. In his motion, Mr Van Dijk himself says that it is being worked on. On 28 April, therefore, Mr Van Dijk had read and heard a lot, but on that basis he could not yet see that there is an alternative. If there had been such an alternative, Mr Van Dijk would have included it in his motion. The minister says there's no alternative. Let us resolve this uncertainty with Mr Van Dijk today. Who better to do that than the Secretary of Defense? I'm sure she looked into it, because that's how I know her. Let us wait and see.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u24	Defense personnel are the backbone of the organization. I could not have said it better than Mr Bitch.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u25	The most important capital, I said.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u26	I say to Mr Teeven that this debate is not just about discussing the current state of affairs with the Minister. In this debate, the Chamber, including the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, can give an opinion on the way in which it has so far dealt with this dossier. One of the points that comes out clearly is that at the present ten locations of the Defense Department there is no maximum safe working with the stuff. So I am not talking about alternatives here, but about the measures that Defence can take to create maximum security for its personnel. Does the VVD group agree with me that it is unacceptable that this is not yet in order? Rather yesterday than today, I would have liked to have this in order; I assume this also applies to Mr Bitch.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u27	I very much appreciate Mrs Hachchi's question. It gives me the opportunity to put in my answer a question that I forgot to ask the Minister. Within the military organisation in June 2015, we need to consider the possibilities for maximum safety in spray booths in general and through personal protective measures. In other words, if something has to be sprayed on a rotor blade of a helicopter stationed at De Kooy, is it perhaps a matter of transferring that helicopter or rotor blade to a place elsewhere in the Netherlands, where in a spray booth with personal protective measures can be safely sprayed? Unlike Mr De Roon, I understand that there are cabins and personal protective measures, but they are not always present in every place at all times. My question to the Minister is whether time and place are combined as much as possible. Are the limited resources within the military organisation optimally used to minimise the risks? I immediately replied to Mrs Hachchi's question. I thank her for the opportunity she gave me to ask my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u28	I would be happy to help Mr Teeven to put additional questions to the Minister. Those questions also live with my group. I can imagine that Mr Teeven would like to wait for the Minister's reply, but would he agree with me that the Chamber could give the Minister a little push in the back, which is perhaps very kindly said, in order to ensure that these kinds of sites are in maximum order as regards the measures to improve staff safety? I think that Mr Teeven is on my side on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u29	I don't have to back the minister up. The Minister, looking at the past and acting in the present, has done the best he can to act optimally. I therefore believe that I will have a very satisfactory answer to the question of whether the resources available in the defence sector are always properly combined in terms of time and place. So I do not think there is a need for support for the Minister at all. She's ahead. We must ensure that we are updated and that we check the information, but Mrs Hachchi and I are doing extremely well. I don't think the Minister needs any support at all. I commend her for her speedy performance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u30	We have come to the end of the first term of office. The Minister has requested a 15-minute suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u31	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Members for their questions. We have talked about this important subject before, and I am sure that in the coming months, if not years, we will continue to talk about it. After all, if I am asked whether it should and can be done better, then the answer is yes. Mr De Roon asked: is there no Russian roulette played with the health of our staff? I would like to reply that there is clearly no Russian roulette playing with our staff. What matters is that measures are being taken. These can be distinguished from the so-called source measures, collective measures and personal protection measures. Eventually, the CEAG recommendations also stated that no Russian roulette is being played, that employees are not exposed to all kinds of risks unprotected. If all measures are followed, the employees are protected as they should be. I accept these recommendations one-on-one and I shall come back to them later in my speech. That doesn't change the fact that if you look at the source measures, you want them to get better. Then you want it to be done according to standard techniques, as some spokesmen have also pointed out. This means that work has been shut down in a number of places or concentrated in different locations. That's what I indicated in the letter. I will come back to this later in my speech, but I would like to stress that it is not the case that employees are exposed to all kinds of risks unprotected. Yeah, it's gotta be better. But here I am dealing in particular with the source measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u32	I also did not expect the Minister here today to say that we are indeed playing Russian roulette with the staff. However, I note that the state of the art is at least not up-to-date at the moment. We already knew that; that's not something that suddenly comes out of this report. They already knew that in the defense organization. In that sense, one could argue that in the past period perhaps there has been carelessness in trying to achieve maximum safety by complying with the state of the art. That process still needs to be started, although it could of course have gone ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u33	I will come back to that in a very long time. However, I just wanted to take away the impression that Russian roulette would be played with the health of our staff. All forms of safety are not about 100% guarantee, but about minimising and controlling the risks. I have also discussed this with the Chamber before. This is also at the heart of the legislation on health and safety that Defence, like other companies working with dangerous substances, has to comply with. So that's what we do with working with chrome-containing paint. However, it is important for the Chamber to keep ending the list of source measures, collective measures and individual measures or personal protective equipment when we talk about the risks to which our employees are exposed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u34	I understand, of course, that the Minister does not reject the words 'Russian roulette'. I would never use those words. But she did just say that all defence personnel are protected as they should be. I don't follow that line. In the most recent letter, the Minister states, even in the case of those ten locations, that many recommendations are being made and a lot of measures are needed, but that it is not quite in order to date.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u35	The Minister has just started replying, and I would suggest that we wait for it first. I understand that this question has already been raised in your contribution. I would also ask Members to give the Minister an opportunity to reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u36	Can I just say that I asked a question about a sentence which the Minister himself used at the beginning of her speech? It's a crucial sentence. The Minister states here that all employees are protected as they should.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u37	I do not know whether I have literally said 'protected as it should be', but I have referred to the list of measures. I have spoken about source measures and collective measures. In the case of source measures, for example, work with robotic installations or good spray booths. Secondly, the collective measures, such as good extraction. Thirdly, personal protection measures. Of course, what you want in the ideal situation is that the source measures are adequate and sufficient and that no additional measures are needed, that you do not have to walk down those steps. The reality is that at a number of locations in the Defense Department it has been established that it can be better when it comes to the source measures, which reduces the speed of recourse to collective measures and, for example, personal protective equipment. According to Mrs Hachchi, I have said the words 'protected, as it should be', but I have said that I have not exposed people unprotected and have not thereby exposed them to all kinds of risks. Personal protective equipment is available and used. There are collective measures and there are also source measures. However, at source in particular, the infrastructure adjustments, improvements are needed in a number of respects. That's the situation. Ms Hachchi spoke in her speech about "maximum order." That means you're working according to the latest state of the art. That is not the case in all cases. That's different from exposing your employees irresponsible or unprotected to all kinds of risks.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u38	That's right, that's different. The fact, however, that the Minister himself states that it can be better, that improvements are possible, is precisely my point. The whole crux of my input is to make your employees work as safely as possible. On today's day, we cannot accept that the maximum amount has not been done to ensure that employees work safely. That's unacceptable. I would have preferred to have seen it in order yesterday rather than today, but I would like to hear from the Minister how much time she needs to have it in order, so let people work as safely as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u39	It is unacceptable if employees are exposed, exposed unprotected, to all kinds of risks. That is not the case. It is highly desirable, however, to work in accordance with the state of the art, including in the defence sector. So that's what we're gonna work on. I wrote in my letter from April that I would return to the Chamber in September. In doing so, I will indicate exactly what has been put into effect per recommendation and when whatever should lead to results in the organisation. I'll get back to you in a minute. As the President said, I am still at the very beginning of my reaction. I shall now turn to the handling of the coulance regulation, because a number of Members of Parliament asked questions about this, in particular Mr Van Dijk but also Mr Teeven. We have discussed this subject before and it is also in the letters I sent to the Chamber. I'm gonna say it again. The coulance scheme was established in consultation with the trade unions. This scheme will monitor conditions related to chromium-6. The implementation is now in full swing. More than 400 applications have now been made. There are applications coming in as well. It is impossible for me to indicate the total, because that ultimately depends on what comes in. The condition should be on a list, as previously communicated with the Chamber, established by the Netherlands Centre for Occupational Diseases. I'm not making that up myself. Good. 'Cause that would be bad news. These are diseases that can be associated with chromium-6. Other disorders, however annoying they may be, are not eligible for this separate scheme. If scientific knowledge changes and a link can still be established with chromium-6, I will of course not hesitate to adapt the scheme accordingly. I've changed that with the Chamber before. I repeat it again now. The condition is monitored by a doctor's statement. The function performed by the person concerned must be on a list of functions known to have been exposed. This is checked again through the personnel records of the person concerned. In the meantime, €209,500 has been paid out to 31 people who met the conditions. If one receives a rejection, there is, of course, the possibility of objecting and ultimately appealing. I do not recognize the complaints that Mr Van Dijk spoke about, namely the complaints about not having medical records available at the Department of Defense.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u40	That answer is very clear, for which I am grateful. This means that the list can be supplemented if there are people with disorders, such as bladder cancer or painter's disease, who believe that there is a connection with chromium paint. They do not have to wait months for this, but then action can be taken immediately. Did I get that correctly?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u41	No matter how painful it is that the person in question says that the condition is caused by previous exposure to chromium-6, it does not mean that it goes directly on the list. It is a question of scientific insights and the basis for them. The research prepared by the Netherlands Centre for Occupational Diseases last December for the purpose of the coulance regulation is a literature study. This has also been used for the coulance scheme. Thus, a distinction has been made between conditions for which there is sufficient evidence and conditions for which there is limited evidence but for which there is insufficient evidence to have certainty. Of course, the RIVM study will look more closely at, for example, the diseases that we now have insufficient certainty about. So it's all being taken. But it doesn't happen immediately when an individual says: I have it because I have been exposed to it. There's still something like a backup. Scientific insights also play a role in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u42	I fully understand that. The point is that the Netherlands Centre for Occupational Diseases may also have a progressive insight. Nota bene, the research into the exact causality will take place in the coming years. That's what RIVM's been working on. How can people with diseases, with complaints at the moment, try to be eligible for this coulance scheme? This is because we are always talking about moving insights. What would the Minister advise these people if they were seriously ill?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u43	Those people are registered. The complaints are well known. If there is a change in scientific understanding and an adjustment of the list is imminent, they will be informed. Lung cancer can be associated with chromium-6, but that disease can also have been very different. The research of the RIVM is therefore important. The causal relationship that will or will not be demonstrated is crucial but the list is not rigid. It is not the case that, because something is not on the list now, while there is progressive insight and something can change, the list is not being modified. This is the subject of communication with registered persons and stakeholders. Mr Teeven asked, under the coulance regime, whether we should proceed with recovery when the situation is bottled. The way in which the regulation has been adopted makes it extremely difficult for me to get rid of it. If there is any fraud, culpable action or failure to provide the right information by the employee or the survivors, which has been wrongly paid, or where too high a sum has been paid, recovery will naturally take place. This has also been included in the regulation, but the way things have been designed makes it extremely difficult to bottle things up. Then there are the exact figures, at the request of Mr Teeven. On 1 June, 479 applications were received. 25 of them weren't complete. 31 applications have now been granted and 191 applications have been rejected. There are 232 applications pending. I will return to the Chamber in September in response to the CEAG's recommendations. Then I will also provide an update so that the Chamber can follow. Mr Van Dijk and Mrs Eijsink asked about the transition from the ABP hotline to the CAOP and whether there were any abuses. The Chamber was previously informed of the fact that the notifications were received at the ABP healthcare office until 20 April 2015. There, the detectors could use a standard form to fill in their data and explain their notification. The Chamber has also been informed about the responsibility of the ABP for the implementation of the coulance regime. We did not find it useful if both issues were in one hand. That is why the issue of the notification has been transferred to the Public Employment Centre, the CAOP. The opening-up applies both to the registration of former employees and to the current employees in order to avoid a mix with the implementation of the coulance scheme. The registration at the CAOP is more extensive than at the ABP. That is also because there is a progressive understanding of this too. In the meantime, it has become clear that the research of RIVM requires more data, for example on the work history. A little confusion has arisen about this, but everyone who had already registered with the ABP has received a letter requesting that they register with the CAOP again. Is that desirable? No. Is that nice? No. Does it cause confusion? Yes, but it is necessary for the investigation of the RIVM. All reporters, including those who have not re-registered, are listed in a database at the CAOP. So no one's getting out of the boat. I am sorry if there has been some confusion among those who had previously reported to the ABP and then received another letter. At the same time, I also say that it has happened with all good intentions. There is now more extensive registration and a mix with the implementation of the coulance scheme has been avoided. Mrs Eijsink and Mr Teeven referred to communication. Mrs Eijsink stressed the importance of speaking in ordinary people's language, so that everyone understands. I very much agree with that. Everyone communicates: the ABP, the CAOP, the unions, the Defense Department, the RIVM. In the beginning, there was no communication plan or coordination. It is now agreed within the joint committee, but I do not have that entirely in hand to draw up a communication plan. It is good that everyone communicates in clear language from their expertise, but let's not all deliver seven different messages at the same time, on one day, because then no one will see the forest through the trees. The communication plan will be drawn up within the Joint Committee, as we speak. I know that has been mentioned recently. The aim is to continue to communicate to stakeholders in a clear and unambiguous language. Mr Van Dijk asked whether it was acceptable that chrome should still be used. If he has an idea of alternatives that are now on the market and which can also be applied to the difficult places of an aircraft, I would like to hear that. This morning I listened to an expert at TU Delft at BNR who said the alternative was not there yet. Like Mr Van Dijk, I am in contact with scientists and people who know it. I had to convince myself that the alternative that I and Mr Van Dijk, and with him the whole Chamber, are looking for and therefore no longer need to be used with chrome paint, does not exist. The good news is that you won't see paint systems like on the F-16 anymore on the F-35. Perhaps that is an argument for Mr Van Dijk to talk a little more positively about the F-35.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u44	Just maybe!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u45	What are we talking about now? I did some kind of quick course paint systems myself. You have an aluminum coffin. Here comes a prime coater with chromaticity. Afterwards, the bottom layer and the top coater get over it. Only in the prime coater is chromatic. That's what we're talking about. The new weapon systems, such as the F-35, are different, but there too, chromium-containing paints will be used in the difficult places. It is good to note that this is not only the case in the case of defence, but also in the case of civil industry. Alternatives are looked at very carefully, for example by Boeing and Fokker. Those investigations are being closely followed by the Defense Department. The DMO also carried out a study on alternatives in 2012. In Norway a test is run with a C-130. It looks at how it works if the prime coater would be chrome free. However, the findings are not yet known. Things are also being done in the United States. After all, everyone is keen to further reduce chrome-containing paint. And it's not like the Department of Defense says, "Let's work full of chrome paint." The starting point is: no, unless there's really no other way. I have also shared this with the Chamber in my letters and in previous debates. That is exactly what REACH, the European laws and regulations, are zooming in on. It's a no, unless. So there can still be wavers, but you are extremely reluctant to do so. The search for alternatives continues. Defence continues to follow it, and where it can, those alternatives will also be applied. However, I cannot go along with a moratorium as proposed by Mr Van Dijk, because it puts entire weapons systems on the ground. As has been said, all forms of safety are not about 100% guarantee, but about minimising and controlling their risks.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u46	I've heard otherwise. I heard you could definitely use other materials. Anyway, I don't think either of us is a scientist, so you're gonna end up in some kind of beta discussion. Apart from that, at some point you just end up on this political balance: do you want to continue, knowingly and knowingly, with a paint that is carcinogenic and causes victims? In the past year, we have been given one message after the other. Or are you saying that this is so dangerous that we at least temporarily stop using it? Does the Minister recognize that it's a trade-off? She says, "I want to keep using those weapons systems." I say people are in mortal danger. Is that a trade-off for her?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u47	My consideration is: how can I control, minimize and mitigate the risks as much as possible? That is the starting point of the labour law. This applies not only to Defence, but also to all other companies and organisations working with dangerous substances. I said it to Mr Van Dijk earlier: it may sound good to say that we are now shutting everything down because we are never working with chromates again, for the time being or for the time being. However, I cannot promise you. The consequences for the operation of the Defense Department are enormous. What I can say is that we are extremely reluctant. It's really no, unless.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u48	That is a political consideration. We constantly hear that chrome paints are being used unsafely. We hear people are sick. We read, in the Minister's letter, that there are too few people watching company safety. We read that the risk inventories are inadequate. Then the Minister could also say: listen, I hate that these people are getting sick to death. I'm gonna put a stop to this for the time being, until I've really done everything and can guarantee 100% that the case is in order. But no, she doesn't. She continues with chrome paint and promises to keep things in order over time. Does she understand that this is extremely undesirable for these people?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u49	Does the Minister understand that? Not "she."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u50	I got one thing right on my retina. You share this with me, namely that the employees are the largest capital in our organization. They are the backbone of the organization; you have said all this. We really do not have to play each other a sort of moral high ground card at that point. I am very keen to minimize and control all risks. That is why I have just referred to the list of source measures, collective measures and personal protective equipment. That's the stairs that keep coming to an end to control and minimize the risks. This means that no one in the whole organization would want to take any steps with the working conditions of our employees. If you ask me whether it can and should be done better, and if it is based, for example, on the internal capacity to check and monitor, then the answer is yes. I already wrote about this in my letter of April. This is also included in the reorganisations. Politically, but also from the organisation itself, the desire has been expressed in the past to maximise the operational impact of Defence as much as possible, despite the far-reaching cuts. There's been cuts in bars and support and in a lot of cases. That's what's avenging now. I've never made a secret of that, and I'll confirm it here again. It should be put in order, but no Russian roulette is being played with our employees. Our employees are not knowingly exposed to risks
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u51	I have a point of order. Mr Van Dijk once again points out, now in the event of interruption, that he has information that could provide an alternative to chromium-6 use. I think it is important, for the order of the debate, for Mr Van Dijk to share this information with us if he does have it, on paper or otherwise. Perhaps we could suspend for a while. I say this to Mr Van Dijk from the common concern we have for the staff. Otherwise, this will continue to be repeated in our debates. We all share one concern. That's the care of the staff. If we have that information, we can all talk about it. Then we have the same source materials. I do not believe that we are all fools and that we have not done our homework, but perhaps Mr Van Dijk is incredibly better at it than all of us together. Then it's very nice that he wants to share that with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u52	Mr Van Dijk, do you have any information that you could share with the other colleagues? That is Mrs Eijsink's request.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u53	Of course, but I find it really too embarrassing for words that Mrs Eijsink is now asking the SP to show us the alternatives. It has been clear for 40 years that this is a dangerous substance and that you need to take action for this. That is the essence of the matter, but Mrs Eijsink can have all the information I want.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u54	I would like this to remain a procedural point. It is not intended to have a substantive political debate on this matter. Mr Van Dijk is therefore prepared to share that information.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u55	Thank you. I am making this request on behalf of Mr Teeven. So it's not too embarrassing for words. Mr Van Dijk knows better than anyone else that many of us share information when we have it, in this case for the benefit of the staff. Are you going to suspend the sitting so that Mr Van Dijk can share everything with us on paper, Mr President? Otherwise, it will remain above the debate and Mr Van Dijk constantly repeats that he has information that I do not have and neither do others. That's kind of annoying for the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u56	No. The minister's here. A debate has been called for. I think it's nice to let the Minister finish her story. In the meantime, I would like to ask Mr Van Dijk to copy the information he has or to send it by e-mail. However, I am not going to suspend the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u57	I will come back to this point as well. I would like to respond to Mr Van Dijk somewhat, because he has a point concerning the alternatives to chromium-6, apart from the sources he uses. I would like to ask the Minister the following question. Which countries are using chromium-6 at the moment? Which countries do not and what alternatives might be used there? If the Minister cannot give an answer to that right now, she may be able to do so by letter. Maybe she doesn't have that information ready right now, but at least that's information the Chamber would like to have.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u58	The Netherlands is not exactly an island. It's not exactly a country that uses fighter planes or lets civil aircraft fly. The global market works with chromium-6. Research into alternatives to this is being carried out in various places in the world. I just indicated that DMO had another study carried out in 2012 and that there is currently a trial in Norway with a C-130. The US is also looking at alternatives that may become available and possibly can be certified. Boeing seems to be leading the search for alternatives. For the outside of the box, therefore, that is the primer coating that goes on the outside of the box, alternatives seem to be certified that can also be used. That's what you see on the F-35. However, Boeing, too, is still working with chromium-6 in the hard-to-access areas of such a box, because the risks are very high when there is corrosion and that kind of thing. The search for alternatives worldwide is ongoing, also in the context of the laws and regulations proclaimed not only in Europe, such as REACH, but also elsewhere. The pressure on this search for alternatives must remain completely high, because we all know quite rightly that Mr Van Dijk knows very well by now, unlike so many decades ago, that painting with chromatic substances poses health risks. Mrs Hachchi also asked me in the previous debate: check with your colleagues whether they also experience problems with chromatic paint, whether in the past or not or in the present. I brought it up in different bilas. All kinds of lines have also been laid down by the administration. We mainly get process answers: yes, we work with chromium-6; yes, also in the past. So far, no one has been able to tell me exactly what the processes are going on, other than 'there are global standards also when it comes to working conditions'. There is no country that gives me a list saying "sorry, at that location it may not be according to standard technology." I think we should also be very realistic about this. I'm gonna go check on the G.D.D. investigation. I thought I should send the memo of the GGD Zuid-Limburg one-on-one to the Chamber yesterday, because it is so fair and transparent. Mrs. Eijsink appreciates this, I know. The Chamber is therefore right to be clear, because the memo talks about the sweep samples and the taking of air measurements. There is a world of difference in this and we have discussed it before. In a location I believe Eygelshoven.. have 210 samples taken and in Brunssum 195. None of the samples from Brunssum found chromium-6 in two of the 210 samples from Eygelshoven. These were samples taken in a part of the building where no one is currently sitting. This is an answer to a question from Mr Van Dijk. By the GGD Zuid-Limburg a Q&A is published, in my opinion, it is even on the site "GGD Zuid-Limburg" where the question is literally: is this disturbing? The GGD Zuid-Limburg answers that this is not disturbing, but to exclude everything air measurements are advised. You can only then determine whether there has been exposure and what. That is why the Defence Department has said: of course we are going to do so immediately, because we want to be able to fully reassure our current employees working at or near those locations. This has to be tendered, so time goes on. We are now living in June and I hope that I will be able to provide information on this in September. I don't have it entirely in my own hands, because I have to work with an outsourcing. I also have to work with the planning of the GGD Zuid-Limburg. I can ask for it to be done as soon as possible, both in terms of outsourcing and the assessment by the GGD, but I do not have all of these parties entirely on a string. The pace is high and the air measurements must be carried out. If the Chamber asks if yesterday's memo is disturbing, the answer of the GGD Zuid-Limburg itself is that it is not disturbing. I believe that we have the courage to say this out loud, because yesterday, as a result of the reports, there was a great deal of unrest among the employees who work near the location where the two samples were taken. Of course, the Chamber has the right to always be critical and to take my measure. However, I call on the Chamber to also occasionally think about the employees on site in its response. They are worried sick when something is made big, while the answer of the GGD South Limburg is: it is not disturbing. I'd like to have said this once. I expect the first results on the other sites at the end of June, because there too the GGD research is doing. I'll share it with the Chamber immediately. I'll send them transparently and so one-on-one. Mr Van Dijk has asked whether we will see the 800% overrun in 2002 on one of the sites in the RIVM report. The answer to that is yes. Everything will be taken. I'm very attached to that. Mrs. Hachchi asks why things are so slow. I have just indicated that it is sometimes very difficult to keep all those parties on a leash. What I can do is to keep pressure on the pace and, where possible, to speed it up. Mrs Hachchi asked a few times about the one or two years and whether that could be maintained. I can't guarantee it'll all be completed in two years. I can tell you that I expect that most and the most important interim results can be shared with the Chamber within a year and now. Whether it will be completed in exactly two years' time, I cannot promise the Chamber at this time. I also attach great importance to the fact that it is being done carefully. Mrs Hachchi said this herself, because in the end that is the most important thing, including for stakeholders. I also thought, "What's taking you so long to ask these research questions?" When I look at what happens to the focus group, to the stakeholders and to the former employees, I see the support for the RIVM research and that is what we want in the end. Whatever the outcome, eventually there are always people who have trouble with it. For example, they don't think the outcome is complete enough or they don't think they address enough of what they've earned themselves. We have already taken an important step by seeking the broadest possible support. I'm very attached to that. This does not, of course, mean that nothing happens in the meantime. A literature study is already underway and all kinds of work is being started in parallel so that RIVM can start at once when the research plan is complete, which is expected in September. The RIVM is an independent institution that I really don't have on a string.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u59	Did the Minister answer all the questions with this? I ask this also in connection with time. Have all of Mrs. Hachchi's questions been answered?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u60	I haven't finished answering yet, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u61	I understand that there has been no agreement on the number of interruptions, but this is really your last interruption, Mrs Hachchi. There will also be a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u62	Fortunately, there is a second term. The Minister uses the necessary words when she talks about its acceptance and importance, and about the need for quality to be accompanied by speed. I can follow all this, but it is a fact that last year the Minister said that she would need one or two years for the large-scale research in which RIVM plays a role, including historical research. I am not standing here in front of myself, especially the people who are personally affected by this dossier. When will there eventually be something on the table that we can talk about and provide some clarity? Is the Minister saying that she will come back to this and that it will not take one or two years, as she said last year, but much longer? Then we know that too, because it is important that we know where we stand.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u63	I'm not standing here either. I'm standing here like Mrs. Hachchi, for the people who are worried. That is why we have received the same research as we have. We want to do it carefully with the broadest possible support. Let's get this straight. I told you, I want to keep the pace high. We are doing this by always pointing that out in the joint committee. Not only does the Defence Department want to speed up the pace, but also the unions, which are so strongly involved in this process and make such a nice contribution, want to do so. Everyone is keen to speed up where possible. The RIVM has this clear on the retina, but it is ultimately an independent institution where care is paramount. I expect that within the two-year period I mentioned earlier, we will be able to share the greatest interim results with the Chamber and, more importantly, with stakeholders. That the investigation will be completed in two years' time, I cannot now undertake. As soon as I have more insight into this, I will of course share it in interim reports and updates, first and foremost with stakeholders but also with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u64	Last year, the Minister spoke about RIVM and the research questions, and in that context she spoke about the end of the first quarter of 2015, which is end of March. So this has already been delayed and we are only talking about the research plan. If I listen carefully to the Minister, she says very clearly today, also to the people who deal with this personally, that she will at least be able to share the most important intermediate results with them next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u65	That is my assessment, but I have already said that RIVM is doing its best to do this as carefully as possible with the broadest possible support. The pressure to keep the pace high comes from all parties, i.e. from Defence, the unions, the stakeholders and from anyone who has an opinion on it. In the end, I expect that we will be able to report important interim results in the coming year. However, I cannot promise that the investigation will be completed in full.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u66	This is an important point and I do not want it to be discussed again and again. I have the ministerial decision of February 27 in my hand. The Chamber has called for an independent investigation. I support the Minister if she keeps repeating this. The composition of the Joint Committee is set out in this Decision. It is a good thing that the Minister is watching for deadlines. Nor can she mention it, because then the Chamber will say again: you do not have this or you do not... An independent committee has been set up, even by ministerial decision. That was discussed by the Chamber on 11 March and approved. Here's what I'm asking the Minister. We all know that in such a process involving people, it is necessary and appropriate to have time planning without ignoring the questions that need to be asked. Is the Minister able to report to the Chamber on this in a certain way? I really do not want us to fall into this debate on time planning every time. The concern for the people must be at the forefront; we all share that. Perhaps the Minister could look again at how we are going to do that. We have just discussed and supported the ministerial arrangement here. That was March 11th.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u67	I have just referred, for example, to the CEAG's recommendations which I am adopting one-on-one. In September I will report on this: who picked up what, who's in charge, when's what going to happen? I think it is good that you, as we have already agreed with each other, get an update of everything in the meantime and that I always state what the expected time schedule is. With this I do expectations management towards your Chamber. I think this is the fairest thing. Mrs. Hachchi also asked if extra people would be deployed. I have just repeated what I said in my letter of 30 April, namely that the reduction in staff capacity has also had its effect in this area. This will be taken into account in the ongoing evaluations and finalised before the end of the year. If this is indeed clearly established, it is impossible for me to believe that this capacity is not being filled out. I want to know exactly how much vte that means. So I'm definitely working on that. I think I've made that clear now. You also know the recommendations from the quickscan: I do not need to list them all here. However, I think it is very important to keep a clear eye on the retina I have just spoken about: the stairs of source measures, collective measures and personal protection measures. We also need to keep a sharp eye on the retina, as stated in my letter of 30 April: where the infrastructure facilities were not in order, the work was shut down. Those facilities will need to be adapted. So you will be informed about the exact planning in September, with a nice schedule and a table so that you can see what is going on per recommendation or per location. One thing I know for sure: at the moment there is a lot of internal work at the Ministry of Defence and also within the OPCOs on solutions, researching alternatives and possible concentration of activities. That is what Mr Teeven asked for. These measures will certainly have an impact on business operations. We're flying our F-16s right now. Focusing work, which, for example, slows you down in your maintenance chain, can also have a direct impact on flying your missions. A number of things must therefore be properly placed under a magnifying glass to determine its impact. It's gonna take time. I know Mrs Hachchi wants results tomorrow, but some things take time. I believe that the Chamber has also recently spoken with the General Court of Auditors. The General Court of Auditors was critical of Defence, which would want too much, but it also indicated to your Chamber and to me: give time to implement things properly, rather than constantly running. That's what we're doing now. We'll take our time to figure it out. At the same time, we do not negotiate with the working conditions of our employees. Mrs Eijsink asked about the capacity of corporate social work. That does a great job; let me put it first. That's what Mrs Eijsink said. This support was not foreseen, we have to be honest about that. So it's had quite an impact. For the time being it seems to be able to be received within the existing occupation, but we will continue to look at it. If there are clear signs that it is no longer possible, we will intervene. For the time being, however, the reaction is that it can be absorbed within the existing occupation. It has, of course, led to additional workload, but it is still clear. We monitor it, so it's not too easy to walk over. Mrs Eijsink also asked about the GGD results. I think I've made that clear. It will be a while, but I hope to be able to inform the Chamber in September. First there is the outsourcing and then there is the assessment. I'll take over the recommendations. That's what I'm gonna do. A wonderful table has already been drawn up internally, and I have just referred to it so that the Chamber in September can monitor and keep up with the state of play for each recommendation. Which actors think along for the research questions? Think of the focus groups. The participants are the stakeholders. These stakeholders are represented from the employers' and employees' sides. There are also several experts, such as scientists and medical professionals, who participate. I've already talked about communication. Both Mrs Eijsink and Mr Teeven had a clear view on this, namely that they can do better. I agree with them. Once again, I will ask the joint committee about the state of play of the communication plan. Mr Teeven spoke about the concentration of work. I very much agree with him, but I have just indicated that there are some business aspects that I need to have clear. That didn't happen one-two-three. Mr President, I think I have answered all the questions fairly quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u68	Thank you. I see that Mr Van Dijk has a question to ask.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u69	I'm just thinking about what the Minister just said in response to yesterday's message. The GGD investigation came out and the minister said: beware of reactions now, do not worry employees unnecessarily. Does the Secretary of State acknowledge that Defense is the cause of this major problem? Does the Minister recognise that for at least 15 years there has probably been unsafe work with chrome paints, when people knew it was unsafe? Does she recognise that we have been getting reports of excessive concentrations of chromium paint lately? Does it therefore recognise that the concerns of the people lie primarily with her and her predecessors?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u70	I have just indicated that the Chamber may always approach me critically, take my measure and question me sharply. Mr Van Dijk does so with love, I know that. Just now, however, I also indicated that I noticed that on the letter I forwarded there were quite a few sharp reactions in all kinds of ANP-messages. These ANP messages not only reach the Binnenhof, but also the employees. Mr Bontes said that chrome was also found on Brunssum, but that is simply not true. In two samples in Eygelshoven, sweep samples, chromium was found, while 210 were taken. This does not say anything about the exposure and therefore the risk for the current employees. The GGD itself wonders whether this is worrying and concludes that this is not the case. Because we want to rule everything out, we're gonna do air measurements. In doing so, we follow the advice of the GGD. So we take that advice. That's another thing than saying: you see, our employees are still in trouble there. Do you understand the difference that I'm trying to make? Everyone is free to say what they want, but I would point out that there is a certain amount of unrest as a result of certain reports and communications. That's all I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u71	There's trouble because people are sick to death because they have cancer. It is therefore too scandalous for words that we should then read that the defence has deliberately allowed those people to work with this substance without adequate protection. Last year the Minister wrote that she had no evidence that her people were working with high concentrations of dangerous substances. Does she recognize that this may have been a huge mistake, given all the revelations? Does it admit that research can show that this dangerous substance has been used knowingly for years?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u72	"For now, I don't have any leads." I think I said that at the time. Secondly, have I not created historical research for nothing? Surely I have ordered that every document about the past and the use of chrome-containing paint be brought up for real within the Defense Department. What am I doing now? The joke is that we ourselves upload all the documents that Defense finds or gets handed over from others. Next comes the NOS journal: another chrome situation in the Defense Department. I have published these documents myself! That's how I can make news. I didn't declare that historical investigation for nothing. I think it is crucial that a causal link can or cannot be established, so that anyone who is currently ill gets what he is entitled to, if that disease is associated with chromium 6. I share that concern with Mr Van Dijk. Yeah, I understand his concerns. I didn't declare historical research for nothing. All I said was that the GGD is investigating current working conditions on the former five POMS sites. The reactions and internal unrest that have arisen in the places Brunssum and Eygelshoven, I regret, quite frankly. The actual message of the GGD Zuid Limburg was that it was not disturbing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u73	Mr. Chairman. The investigation is ongoing and should be completed as soon as possible, because people are very concerned and in some cases very sick. It is true that the Minister has now initiated a lot of things, but at the same time the chrome paint dossier is extremely shocking. The NRC may have worked with chromium paint for 15 years without adequate protection. They knew it was dangerous, yet they allowed people to work with it unprotected. And to this day, people can be exposed to chrome paint. The risks are there. That is why I would like to put my previous motion to the vote to put a stop to the use of chromium paint. That's motion 34000-X, no. 80. Mrs Eijsink asked me to let you know who the people who know there are other ways to work without chrome paint. That's what I do with love. In fact, I've been pleading for a hearing for months. I suggest we invite these people and we listen to them before the summer. I think it's crazy that I should come up with it. For decades, the DOD has known that this substance is life-threatening. At some point you have to consider: do we put our people at risk any longer or do we stop using them until we really have a good alternative?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u74	Whether or not to hold a hearing and who is invited and not to do so is something that is determined in committee. Mr Jasper van Dijk has requested his motion for a resolution (34000-X, No. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). The motion will be put on the voting list. I now give the floor to Mrs Hachchi on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u75	Mr. Chairman. This debate is not only about the state of affairs of the toxic substances to which Defence staff are and are exposed, but also about how we feel as a Chamber, and we should at least try to improve the way things are going for the people who are affected, and they are often seriously ill people. The Minister said that we are not negotiating with the working conditions of our employees. At the same time, it recognises today that it can do better. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is unacceptable for unsafe situations to continue to arise as a result of working with the toxic chromium paint;]] [[noting that the Defence-wide quickscan shows that there are still many improvement measures to be implemented;]] [[calls on the Government, if necessary through the deployment of additional capacity, to ensure that those recommendations and improvement measures for Princess Day 2015 have been implemented, so that maximum safety is ensured at all sites where work is done with chromium paint, and to inform the Chamber thereof before Princess Day 2015,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Hachchi. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34000-X-96]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u76	We've been a year. Last year the Minister himself mentioned a timetable of one or two years. We're a year away. In the interests of the people concerned, I would like to table the next motion, which I hope will be supported by my fellow Members. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas studies on the use of and working with toxic chromium paints are carried out for the health of (former) workers and are entitled to clarity as soon as possible;]] [[noting that the government had previously communicated that the historical investigation would take one to two years and that almost a year had elapsed since;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with the parties concerned, to ensure that all investigations into working with toxic chromium paint are completed before the summer of 2016 and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Hachchi. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34000-X-97]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u77	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for answering the first-term questions. As I announced in the first term, I would like to continue in this second period on the subject of company safety in the broad sense, following what the Minister wrote about the audit of the Audit Service. It turns out that industrial security in the defence sector is in a sad state. The fact that part of the defence equipment is squeaking and cracking is a bad thing, but that is still so far. However, the fact that results of this audit work show that industrial safety is subject to considerable erosion is, of course, reprehensible. The question then arises as to how this situation could have arisen. The Minister replied to that question in her letter, because she wrote: 'the reduction in staff capacity in defence components in recent years has had its effect in this area too'. In plain Dutch: we have cut back and that was at the expense of company safety. If you translate it that way, this is also immediately clear that this is not really an answer to the question of how this situation could arise. It is, of course, about the underlying question: how could the austerity be carried out at the expense of operational safety? I would like an answer from the Minister to this question. The Minister also states in the letter that she is going to work to put this right. It will implement the recommendations and we will see actions later this year. Can the Minister indicate how much money is involved in this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u78	Mr. Chairman. Allow me to make this debate personal for a moment. In my working life, in the early seventies of the last century, I worked on naval shipyards for many years, including at shipyard De Schelde in Vlissingen. There I had to work with dilution, with paint and with coating, of which my colleagues and I did not know the composition at the time. I have had to bury many colleagues who have worked with it for years. They didn't make it to retirement. So I feel a deep commitment to the people who are dealing with this now. You never know what effects this will have. We worked unprotected with substances that may have been life-threatening. We worked with dilution, with primer and polyurethane paint, of which we did not know the composition. Sometimes I still worry about what it might mean to myself. After all, I worked with it for five, six years. I'm gonna go through this subject. I understand you can't say right now: we're quitting chrome-6 paint. You can't, because then your weapons systems will be shut down. At this time, I don't think that's possible. I understand the Minister's difficult dilemma. They are people who are very close to my heart, but by shutting down weapons systems you could put people's lives in danger again. I'm realistic about that. The workplace says that we do not have sufficient personal protective equipment. According to the Minister, this isn't true. So there is a gap between the experience of the workplace and what the Minister says. Can she explain this again? How is it that people in the workplace say that they do not have sufficient personal protective equipment when the Minister says they do? Can the Minister guarantee that they have enough resources to protect themselves?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u79	Thank you, also for sharing your personal background with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u80	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. There are still a few questions left, in particular about support from corporate social work. The minister says it's enough for now. I'd like to get a confirmation of this. Maybe there's more to it sometimes. It's all about front calls. They're incredibly important. It is about attention and commitment, and that is also often expressed in time. It's gonna take time. Speaking to a social worker for another two hours can already provide a solution at the front. I would like to refer to the ministerial arrangement of 27 February. I'm very attached to that. We often talk about the timetable and other things. I do not want to speak in this respect very much for my group, Mr President, that in a year's time we will say: yes, yes, yes, yes, yes. The Minister rightly refers to the ministerial arrangement. There are a number of questions which I would like to put very briefly. The Minister has asked RIVM to conduct an investigation. The power stations of government staff have expressed the wish to be involved in that investigation, given the undertaking to the Court that there will be an independent execution of the investigation. The Committee wishes the Minister to advise in her role as a formal client, so that the investigation is conducted in a professional and independent manner. Finally, the research institutions concerned must be independent and honest. That is a mouthful and a big bite, laid down by ministerial regulation. The Chamber must abide by this and has already agreed to do so. I ask the Minister once again to respond to this. I'm here to get extra information and a hearing. Mr Van Dijk pretends that it has never been mentioned. It has been discussed several times in committee, both with him and with others. So let's not get on with each other here; there's really no need for that. The Minister's letter of 4 March states: "The application of alternative paints in difficult-to-access areas of aircraft has not (yet) been approved." That is the crucial point. We do have bodies in the Netherlands that have to approve this. This was explicitly and comprehensively discussed on 11 March. That's what the PvdA Group attaches to. That goes much wider than applying chrome for a while. We have bodies for this in the Netherlands. They must be involved in the matter in terms of consent, approval and quality. The same applies to this organisation. I ask the Minister to respond, because unfortunately it is not that easy. Anyone would want it resolved by tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u81	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for her clear answers. I would like to thank her for her commitment to respect the utmost care in protecting the defence personnel who are still working with chromium-6 and to look at concentration. Our group understands that this will take time, because all parts must be brought together. For the moment, our group assumes that there are no alternatives yet. In the light of this debate, I have not received any documents showing that it is different. In fact, the statements by Mr Van Dijk from the SP Group also strengthen me in the belief that, although alternatives are being looked at, they are still not there. This means that the safe operation of Defense and also the personnel who are to fly with the resources currently used, including in war situations, are still served by the use of that paint. That is a priority for our group. At the same time, when there is the possibility of working within spray booths and with protective clothing, we should look at the concentration. I assume that this is happening within the defence organisation, on which the Minister has convinced my group. It means she's got everything in order. Following the motions tabled by the D66 Group, the Minister said that there are no guarantees at all. However, the VVD Group would like to insist that a finalisation in the form of a settlement, with all the conditions mentioned by Mrs Eijsink, is desirable for the summer of 2016. The Minister cannot guarantee that, we understand, but a little pressure on the Joint Committee would, of course, help. I conclude that the Minister is well in order. It is tragic how things have developed in the past, but at the moment the good things are done by the Minister and the Department of Defence. That is what we are looking at with confidence.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u82	We arrived at the end of the second term on the side of the Chamber. The Minister will answer immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u83	Mr. Chairman. Of course, I very much agree with the speakers who say that the ongoing investigation should be completed as soon as possible. I, too, am keen to get the truth out of my head. That's what I've been saying. Otherwise, I wouldn't have started the historical investigation and I wouldn't have put all the documents on the internet to operate as transparently as possible. Let me stress that. There is no one who stands in front of the people; we are all in front of the people and we all want them to be able to do their job under good conditions without running any risks. Mr Van Dijk wants his motion to be put to the vote; that is, of course, his right. However, I cannot fail to share my previous voting advice with the Chamber. I'm dissuading the motion. The moratorium advocated by Mr Van Dijk is simply not possible. Of course, we are continuing the search for alternatives for defence and the world around us. I come to Mrs Hachchi's comments. I just said that we all want our employees to be able to do their job under good conditions. We are all keen to provide clarity as soon as possible. By 'all of us' I mean not only Defence and the Chamber, but also the unions, to which I said in my first reply that they are closely involved in this matter and that they are doing their stinking best, and to all the others involved in the Joint Committee and working hard to provide clarity quickly. I also made it clear that I don't have everyone on that string. In Mrs Hachchi's motion to item No. 97 is requested by the Government to ensure that all investigations into working with toxic chromium paint are completed before the summer of 2016. I simply have to discourage that motion, not because I wouldn't want to, but because I don't have everyone on a string. If I am asked if I want to increase the pressure as much as possible in order to speed up the pace, where possible, then the answer is clearly 'yes'. However, I have already promised this a hundred times. The motion is therefore superfluous. Mrs Hachchi also tabled a motion on item No. 96 which is about the Defence-wide quickscan and the implementation of numerous improvement measures. I have just indicated that I am taking over the nine recommendations and that I will update the Chamber in September on the recommendations and actions taken by the Defence Department. Ms Hachchi asked to ensure that the recommendations and improvement measures for Prinsjesdag 2015 were implemented. That is different from what I advised her, with all the good intentions, but also, for example, different from what the General Court found. She may say that she wants it to be implemented before Princess Day, but I can already say that this is never going to work. Some work has been shut down, other measures are being taken, but all improvement measures as set out in the Prinsjesdag recommendations are being implemented, including a number of technical adjustments... It just takes more time. However, in September I can be clear about when I expect something and sketch a complete picture. However, I must discourage the motion as it now stands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u84	I see Mrs Hachchi wants to respond to this. I would like to hear a brief comment on the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u85	So the minister actually says: it could be better, actually they could work as safely as possible, but we just need a lot more time for that? We are talking about the current use of chromium-6! I said it in my speech: rather yesterday than today, all the measures must be in order. In my motion I even added 'if necessary by using extra capacity'. I am therefore a little surprised by the Minister's reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u86	I think I've been really clear. The recommendations are accepted one-on-one. Actions are being deployed. Some actions take time. That doesn't mean I'm gonna sit back and take my time. Some actions, perhaps major infrastructure adjustments, also cost a lot of money. Now money is not a show-stopper when it comes to the working conditions of our workers, but with what Mrs Hachchi is now saying, it is far too short. Sometimes you have to give things some time to come to fruition. I'll inform the Chamber in September. That's different than I must have done everything for Prince's Day coming. That's impossible. Now let's be realistic! At the same time, I would like to remind Mrs Hachchi once again of the steps taken by collective measures, source measures and personal protection measures. It is therefore not the case that workers are currently exposed to all kinds of risks unprotected.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u87	Up or down stairs, can I use the words that the Minister will at least make the most of all efforts to implement all these measures before Princess Day? Again, we are talking about the current use of the substance. The Minister himself also says: working conditions should simply be at the highest level.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u88	I'm not gonna give the same answer for the third time. I note that Mrs Hachchi, like others in the Chamber and myself, attaches great importance to schedules and time planning. I get that. But some realism is in place here. That reality is lacking if Mrs Hachchi asks me to do everything for Princess Day coming. That's why I have to discourage the motion. Mr De Roon referred to the Audit Service. I did come back to that in the first period. I too have to guess the reason why too much has been cut in support and in certain staff capacity. However, I can see in the 2011 policy letter, for example, but also earlier, that in the past there was a huge desire on the part of the defence organisation, but certainly also in the past, to further maximise the operational effects under pressure from the further cuts. So most of the savings were made on support. We have spoken before about the combat support, the combat service support, staff capabilities and also about this. We did that because people thought we could. I'm gonna have to assume that. Because it was thought that there would still be sufficient capacity, as the Audit Service has described, to keep a close eye on supervision. I also said that there are evaluations going on about the reorganisations. I expect that they will be ready by the end of the year and that this is an aspect that is explicitly taken into account. As far as I'm concerned, it can't be that the holes that have been created wouldn't be filled. When it comes to company safety, the conditions under which our employees must operate and the supervision of them, I also want sufficient capacity in the organisation to do so. That is what I said in the first term, but perhaps I have made it even more explicit. Mr Bontes spoke about his personal experience. That always impresses me. I thank him for sharing. I think he refers to a situation which arose at an information meeting in Leusden. An employee there said that he felt that there were insufficient personal protective measures. That's been figured out, because I wanted to know if that was true. We just have that step, and only if that step is completely over, are you sure that we will give sufficient substance to the care that the employer must take. This was not the case, there was clearly a miscommunication with the employer in question in the workplace. After that, I also looked closely at the quick scan of the CEAG, or the lack of personal protective equipment was mentioned. These are, however, to a sufficient extent everywhere. That's also what I've seen before. For me too, as for Mr Bontes, it is really crucial, and there should be no misunderstanding about that: there must be sufficient personal protection at the sites. Workers have a duty to make use of it. The employer, the manager on the spot, has a duty to inform the employee that they must be used. I hope that I have made this clear to Mr Bontes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u89	I have a brief question to ask in response to the Minister's comments on the overall security of defence. The Minister is going to do everything in his power to make it right this year, and I read that in the letter. Could the Minister also promise us that the budget will at least provide us with an insight into what exactly is going to happen and how much money is involved? Can the Minister also now promise that all this can be financed from the current budget?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u90	I can't tell you how much money is involved right now. One time it will be a vte that is missing and the other time it will be a bit more, when it comes to great desired or necessary................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ That's got huge price tags, outsourcing, long-term contracts. That alone is why I cannot comply with what Mrs Hachchi asked me to do in her motion. In short, I will always take you with me through quarterly reports on the state of play. I will state what I can say in the budget. As you know, the budget has been put together this summer. This also means that I will probably be able to inform the Chamber about other matters later this year. We need to be very clear about that. However, once again, the gaps that have occurred in terms of supervision and support that are necessary to keep the safety of the company well under review must be refilled. That's why it's included in the evaluations.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u91	In any case, I understood from the Minister's letter that several business units are making an inventory. Can we get it around Prince's Day?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u92	Mr De Roon is suddenly very attached to the budget, but I believe that it will come when the time comes. Then I'll make sure it's shared with the Chamber. I have just always pointed out that there will be a report in September. If that's on or around Prince's Day, that's fine, but if it's a week earlier, that's fine too. I do not want to put the budget on this issue. The Chamber is regularly informed of this as transparently as possible. If Mr De Roon believes that enlargement is necessary, he is the first to be able to appeal to me. Mrs Eijsink asked me to confirm that I am keeping a close eye on the pressure on corporate social work and the support provided from there. Yes, I will. I will come back to it in September so that the Chamber can follow it. Mrs Eijsink referred to the ministerial arrangement. That reference is quite right, because the ministerial arrangement has been shared and discussed with the Chamber. It says exactly which parties are involved and why I don't have everyone on the line. That is a good thing, because in the end we all want the research to be carried out independently. It can't be that the butcher here is going to judge his own flesh. That's why we got involved with RIVM, among other things. Mr Teeven said that a conclusion was needed for the summer of 2016. I very much agree with him, but I just indicated that I don't have that entirely in my own hands. I'll increase the pressure as much as I can. I am very much in favour of further concentrating the work on a limited number of locations, but I really need more image and sound in terms of its impact on business operations. I do not know if I have that clear in September, but as soon as I get it clear, it will be shared with the Chamber. That's how I answered all the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u93	Mr Van Dijk, do you have a comment on your motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u94	Certainly, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u95	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u96	The Minister says it's impossible to stop the use of chrome paint. I don't think it's impossible. I don't think the Minister wants it, but she has to say it. It is, of course, possible to stop it, but the Minister does not like the consequences. I have one more question. We note that we are currently working with chrome paints and that this sometimes happens unsafely. The Minister has proposed measures to improve this, but then she advises the Hachchi motion, in which the government is asked to do it for Princess Day. The sum can't be different from what you say, if you want to be a good employer: Until everything is safe, do we stop the use of chrome paint? That would be a consistent line, wouldn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u97	Those are the words of Mr van Dijk. I have already replied in different ways at various times. I have also indicated that I find it risky to play each other the moral high ground in this respect. We're all in the same interest. This means that the employees of the Defense Department must be able to do their work under safe conditions. I am very keen to bring the historical research to an end quickly and to further optimise the current working conditions. However, as is also stated in the Arbo legislation, working with dangerous substances is not only a fact for Defence, but also outside, for other organisations and for other companies. Then it comes down to controlling, mitigating and minimising the risks. We have just spoken about this for two hours.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u98	Mr. Van Dijk. This motion has been discussed extensively before. You may make one final comment, but only on the motion. The debate does not need to be repeated.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u99	Mr. Chairman. I think this is a very inconsistent argument from the Minister. She says she's working on improvement measures and she says, "Wait a minute until this trial is over." Then you cannot continue with chrome paint. The Minister would be consistent if she said: I am taking improvement measures and then we continue with chrome paint. What is happening now is very wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u100	We have the Constitution with constitutional tasks for the armed forces. I cannot do that anymore if I do what Mr Van Dijk asks me to do. It's as simple as that. In the end, the labour law applies to everyone. It's about controlling, mitigating and minimising the risks. That's what Defense does, but further improvements are taking place.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u101	Thank you. This brings us to the end of this debate. We shall be voting on the motions tabled next Tuesday. I would like to thank the Minister for her presence, her officials and the people in the public gallery.
