ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-20.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-20.u2	Mr. Chairman. We held written consultations with the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations on the proposal adopted by the European Parliament on 11 November to radically reform the European Union's Election Act. This morning, the Committee on the Interior decided to take stock of which other national parliaments might wish to carry out a subsidiarity test on the proposal before us. After Christmas, we would like to discuss the content of the proposal with the Minister as soon as possible, but in view of the discussions in the Council, it is necessary to reach agreement today with the Minister on the procedure for informing the Chamber. The proposal is at the heart of our national democracy and the way in which we organise elections in this country. It is therefore essential to make good agreements on the procedure for providing information to the Chamber and on the involvement of the Cabinet in the negotiations in the Council. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, on 11 November last, the European Parliament adopted a report proposing to amend the Act concerning the elections of Members of the European Parliament by direct universal suffrage;]] [[Whereas the amendment of the electoral act is now before the Council of the European Union;]] [[Whereas, on 15 December last, the Chamber placed a parliamentary reservation of treatment;]] [[As regards the provision of information to the Court, the Government requests:]] [[inform the Chamber of any new elements that may be added to the original proposal;]] [[inform the Chamber as soon as the negotiation process develops in a direction substantially different from the commitment of the Dutch Government still to be agreed with the Chamber;]] [[inform the Chamber of all the elements of the proposal on which a clear majority is beginning to emerge in the Council, for example in the form of a political agreement or a common approach;]] [[inform the Chamber as soon as the Council votes on a 'common position' and submit it to the Chamber for express approval in advance,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Taverne, Mr Van Raak, Mr Van Toorenburg, Mr Van Vliet and Mr Bishop.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34361-3]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-20.u3	What an interesting motion. It is quite similar to what I have said and put in debates. There's a lot of names under that motion. Democracy is about exchanging opinions. The VVD calls itself a liberal party. Why wasn't I invited to co-sign that motion? Mr Taverne did manage to find Mr Van Vliet, a one-man group. Why didn't he ask me?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-20.u4	I am very pleased with the support I expect from the PVV for this motion. I therefore very much invite Mr Bosma to support this motion in the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-20.u5	Don't play games with me. I ask a clear, clear question. Then don't touch me with the story that I'm allowed to vote in favour of that motion, because I know that myself. I've been around for 11 years. The question is very simple: why didn't you invite me to sign that motion? I think it's just a cordon sanitary, excluding one party, which I smell here. That's what's happening here. Be honest for once, dude!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-20.u6	No one is excluded in this Parliament. Every voice counts, even here. That is also what we want to lay down in the European electoral act. I'd like to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-20.u7	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-20.u8	Mr. Chairman. Unlike Mr Taverne, I have a motion which also reflects the position of the Chamber. Gentlemen, shall I wait for you?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-20.u9	I appeal to you to listen to our colleague Koşer Kaya. She did the same to Mr Taverne.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-20.u10	Mr. Chairman. Unlike Mr Taverne, I have a motion which also reflects the position of the Chamber. Mr Bosma and Mr Taverne, you are still talking to each other. Do you want me to wait for you guys?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-20.u11	I appeal to you to listen to colleague Koşer Kaya. She has also listened to Mr Taverne. Mrs Koşer Kaya, start again. This does not go away from your speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-20.u12	Mr. Chairman. Contrary to my colleague, Mr Taverne, I will not put the Minister under curately by tabling a motion so boarded up that in fact he can only make sounds in a straitjacket. However, I think it is important that we give a 'go' in this Chamber before any proposal is accepted. I shall therefore table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas an amendment to the European electoral act may affect the Dutch election to the European Parliament, thereby establishing a fundamental democratic right;]] [[calls on the Government to inform the Chamber of proposals and agreements on this matter prior to a Council vote and, without having obtained an explicit mandate, not to agree to the proposal before it,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Koşer Kaya. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34361-4]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-20.u13	Mr. Chairman. We decide how our elected representatives are elected. The same applies to our representatives of the people in the European Parliament. All kinds of initiatives are now being taken in the European Parliament to determine how we are going to organise the elections in the Netherlands. That is a violation of our sovereignty. That is insufferable and I have the impression that this idea is being widely supported in this Chamber. So we must stop the European Parliament. We do this, among other things, by means of a yellow card procedure. I have wholeheartedly signed Mr Taverne's motion. I see this as the beginning of a yellow card procedure. In the end, this Parliament will vote on a proposal. We will agree to that. Unanimity is required, and then the whole project doesn't go through. Can the Minister confirm that? Can he also respond to signals from the European Parliament that Parliament does not consider these plans to be a legislative proposal for organising the elections in the Netherlands from Brussels, but only a resolution? Can the Minister remove the fog created by Europe and clarify it? I hope so. If there is any proposal, it will be a law that we can amend in this Chamber. Is it true that we have not yet formally received an official transmission letter and that there is no official plan yet? Does the Minister also see the motion tabled by Mr Taverne, a number of others and me together as the starting point for a yellow card procedure?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-20.u14	I see the Minister can answer directly. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-20.u15	Mr. Chairman. Even now there is a European Choosing Act. The European Convention on the Functioning of the European Union governs the way in which this instrument of choice is amended and adopted. That is important for the assessment of the motions before us. Let me say first of all that I leave the judgment on both motions to the Chamber. I must point out that the Treaty of Functioning provides for an assent procedure for the House of Representatives after the European Council has taken a decision. In any case, that lies ahead as part of the trajectory. In addition, these motions call on the government to inform the Chamber at a number of times before the European Council takes a decision. I think that's excellent. The last indent of Mr Taverne's motion is followed by a request to inform the Chamber before the Council takes a vote and it says 'to submit the matter to the Chamber for express approval'. I leave it to the Chamber to judge, with the remark that this is not a parliamentary reservation as laid down in the European Convention on the Functioning of the European Union, but that this material will have the effect that, after the Chamber has been informed about the present proposal, and that is not the proposal adopted by the Council, the Chamber will have a debate on it. At least, I'll take it that way. If the Court considers that there is no point in going further, because it will not be accepted after adoption, then I cannot imagine that the Dutch Government would go back to Brussels and agree to the adoption of that proposal in the European Council. With that formal remark, I would like to leave the opinion on the motions to the Chamber. I also responded to Mr Van Raak's point that Europe should not interfere with the elections in the first place. Strictly speaking, that's not true. In the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, the procedures for change apply as I have just commented on them. Maybe this is what's next. This debate has rightly been held with me, because I am responsible in the Netherlands for the Kieswet. From now on, the emphasis will be on how the Netherlands represents itself internationally in debates with other countries in the European Council. I think that we will now be carrying the torch in this area with two departments: Foreign Affairs and Home Affairs, for the content. Should there be any need for a follow-up discussion, I could easily imagine that the Chamber would do so with the colleague of the State Department and myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-20.u16	Procedurally, this is a bit of a new area. There is a great deal of uncertainty about the path to be taken. Let me get that straight. If this motion is adopted, which the Minister may assume, this Chamber will say that it wants to consult the government, the Ministers for the Interior and the Foreign Affairs in January. The Minister must then take into account that a yellow card procedure will be launched in that debate. Does the Minister also take this motion in the sense that it will begin this process?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-20.u17	That is actually a question for the first author of this motion, because I see neither the word 'January' nor the word 'yellow card' in the motion. When I say that I will pass judgment on to the Chamber, I will stick to the text of this motion. The same applies to Mrs Koşer Kaya's motion. The 'express mandate' I would like to highlight in it, as I have just said, not in the formal sense of the Treaty of Functioning, although it will have de facto and material effect. As I have just said, I do not agree with Mr Van Raak's statement, which said that Europe has nothing to do with the electoral process, because at the moment the European electoral act, which is part of the Treaty, is in force.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-20.u18	The Minister is right to say that, as a Chamber, of course, we ourselves decide whether we are going to start a yellow card procedure. I would ask the Minister, in his further contacts in Europe, to take account of the fact that this desire lives in the House of Representatives, and fairly broad as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-20.u19	I heard Mr Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-20.u20	I would like to ask a question about the third line of thought of Mr Taverne's motion. It made me submit my own motion. With "Informing the Chamber of all parts of the proposal on which a clear majority begins to sign up in the Council, e.g. In the form of a political agreement or a common approach,' Mr Taverne put the government under curatel, whereas the essence is that we should approve such a proposal here, prior to the vote in the European Council. And it doesn't say that. Mr Taverne wants to see and hear every step of the government and argue in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-20.u21	I can imagine. Take the element that the male-female distribution on those lists should be equal. In my political movement, that is, by the way, self-evident. You don't have to prescribe that. However, it is a very different matter if you think that the government should thus determine the establishment of lists of candidates for elections. I have an opinion on this very strongly: I do not think this should be done. If there is a clear majority in favour of this, I think it would be extremely useful for this to be reported here. I'd be happy to.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-20.u22	So that's about all the parts that are in the Election Act? That is what the motion calls for. So this is going to come to the Chamber before you can even have a conversation about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-20.u23	Yes, when a clear majority begins to sign off. I read it in such a way that it concerns matters of interest. There are a number of them. I just mentioned one, but there are still a few, for example the way in which a political party compiles its list of candidates. In the Netherlands, we believe that every political party should know that for itself. If there is a clear majority in favour of this, I will report it to Parliament, together with my colleague from the State Department.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-20.u24	Thank you. This brings us to the end of this VAO. The motions tabled will be put to the vote this evening.
