ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u1	I would like to welcome all those present in the Chamber, and in particular the Prime Minister, to this so-called 'can-see debate'. Before we begin, let me give you a brief instruction, because it is the first time we have had a debate in this style. The Chamber decided on February 12 to conduct an experiment, and today is the first time that we do so. The look-back debate takes the following form. The Prime Minister is about to make a statement here in plenary on the results of the European summit and the results of the Dutch cabinet effort. There is no possibility for the spokesmen to interrupt during that statement. At the end of the statement, everyone who has subscribed to this debate has the possibility of asking a question twice at most: a question with a follow-up question or two separate questions, that does not matter. Finally, the Chamber is given a normal time limit of four minutes per political group, allowing the spokesmen to debate each other and to table motions. The government will then be given a time limit to respond to this. I suggest we just get started. I'm giving the Prime Minister the opportunity to read his statement. I'm gonna ask the messenger to raise the cathedral.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u2	As I understand from the Volkskrant, Piet de Jong would say: the periscope may be higher. Madam President. Thank you for this opportunity. Maybe I can say something here first about today's terrible disaster with a German passenger plane. That's horrible news. That comes in hard, even in our country. The first thoughts, of course, are with the victims and the next of kin. The first reports are about many German and Spanish victims. In the meantime, I have also conveyed Dutch sympathy to my colleagues from Germany and Spain. Now the shock prevails. Now compassion also prevails. This sadness is grief over a lot of people who are gone at once, transforming the lives of many more people into one stone forever. That is and remains unreal. I now come to the European Council last Thursday and Friday, which was devoted to energy, the economy and abroad, in particular Russia, Ukraine and Libya. About "energy" I notice the following. On a proposal from the Netherlands, among others, the European Council stressed the importance of the internal energy market as a means of achieving the objectives of the Energy Union: affordable, secure and, at the same time, sustainable energy. I have pointed out that much profit can be made by making more work on cross-border regional cooperation, as is currently the case, for example, between the Netherlands and Belgium. We also see close cooperation between other countries, not only within the Benelux, but also between France, Germany, Austria and Switzerland. This is without prejudice to the fact that, of course, Member States remain responsible for their own energy mix. I have also emphasised this. As regards the transparency of gas contracts with external parties, the European Council called on the Commission to ensure from now on that the contracts are in conformity with EU law. This concerns in particular the provisions on energy security. At the same time, it has been said that the confidentiality of business sensitive information should be guaranteed. When drawing up concrete proposals, the Netherlands will ensure that the criteria under review are clearly laid down in EU law. It is good that the conclusions call for strategic partnerships with key energy producing and exporting countries to be concluded. This European Council thus provides a good basis for further steps in the common energy policy. I come to growth and jobs, the European Semester. The European Council reaffirmed the importance of structural reforms, of austerity and of investment, as priorities for growth and jobs. The Dutch position is well known: agreements apply to everyone and must be respected, not only because the rules are the rules, but also because it is ultimately in the interests of the Member States themselves and of the growth of the European economy. As is well known, the government's view is that it lays the foundations for sustainable growth by putting public finances in order while at the same time implementing the necessary reforms. The combination of investment in the economy and the deepening of the internal market - I am also involved in the digital single market - is creating new jobs. The subject of TTIP, the free trade agreement with America, has also been discussed. The European Council reaffirmed the importance of that trade agreement with the United States. I drew attention to trade as an important means of giving an extra push to the Dutch and European economies. This is low-hanging fruit, you might say. I pointed out that TTIP offers an opportunity at the same time to strengthen the transatlantic link. I am committed to this, as I said in the previous debate. Indeed, we can see that America is increasingly orienting itself towards Asia. It remains important to anchor America in strong transatlantic cooperation in NATO and also in our trade relations. The Netherlands is committed to an early conclusion and conclusion of these negotiations. It would, of course, be a good thing if this year were to succeed, because next year, with the Primaries, preparations for the American presidential elections will begin. That might make it more complicated. We should not rule out the fact that this is a subject that is getting into the Dutch Presidency, but it would be nice if it could be done this year. In this context, we have also noted that it is a good thing that the debate is getting wider and wider. The discussion must be conducted openly and on the basis of facts. This means that serious attention must also be paid to concerns, for example on investment protection and transparency. That is why the Cabinet supports the efforts of Lilianne Ploumen, the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation, to improve all these issues. The preparation of the Eastern Partnership Summit to be held in Riga on 21 and 22 May was briefly discussed. The vision that the summit will focus on consolidating the partnership was widely shared. In the case of perpetuating, it is also about implementing, for example, the association agreements with Moldova, Georgia and Ukraine. In this context, the importance of rapid ratification of these agreements was reaffirmed. Of course, the situation in Ukraine has been discussed in detail. In this respect, the European Council was united. The Minsk Agreement, and thus the Minsk II Agreement, or Minsk plus Agreement, the recent agreement reached with the help of the European Council's colleagues François Hollande and Angela Merkel, must be fully respected by all parties. There are cautious positive developments, but at the same time we see reports indicating that it is a long road and that we must maintain pressure on Russia and the separatists. The European Council therefore unanimously decided to link the duration of the sanctions against Russia to the duration of the Minsk agreements. This is important, because this means that there can be no relief of sanctions until the Minsk agreement is fully implemented. We will take final decisions on this in the coming months and then there will be more clarity about compliance with the Minsk agreement. We want to give that process a chance, of course. At the same time, we have noted that if the situation were to deteriorate dramatically, we would leave open the possibility of additional measures. You can see that this is a clear political commitment in the European Union. As I said, there has also been talk of the worrying situation in Libya, which is affecting stability throughout that region. This is also a very important situation for Europe. The European Union supports the initiatives taken by the United Nations to reach a political solution. The UN Special Representative, Mr Leon, is conducting talks on a ceasefire and a government of national unity. It is essential that all political parties participate constructively in this UN process. I have to say, you're seeing some movement in that right now. In support of this, the High Representative will draw up an integrated European strategy. It must complement the efforts of the United Nations. The EU High Representative and the Commission undertook to present to the European Council in May proposals for a comprehensive EU migration agenda. In the Dutch appreciation of this agenda, the coalition agreement is leading and that has not changed. I'm coming to Greece. And the margin of the European Council was, as you know, an informal meeting on Greece. Minister Dijsselbloem was also present in his role as president of the eurogroup. In fact, only one thing really came out of that, namely that Greece has to keep the agreements and do what it has promised. Moreover, I myself sent that message to my Greek colleague, Prime Minister Tsipras. I believe that the informal meeting has been useful to further sensitise the Greeks and to point out once again that the agreements as agreed with the Eurogroup of 20 February really need to be implemented. This has increased the pressure again. Greece, together with the institutions, must now draw up a complete reform plan which should ultimately lead to the same result as the existing programme. This is entirely in line with the agreement reached with the Eurogroup on 20 February. As it turns out, it was a European Council with many different topics. It was not a question of major conflicts, but of subjects that are all of the most important for Europe, both internally and in terms of energy policy and the situation in Greece as well as externally in terms of relations with Russia, Ukraine and Libya.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u3	This has put an end to the government's term. Is there a need to ask questions at the moment or do we proceed with the term of the Chamber? I see there are Members who want to ask questions. I call Mr Pechtold.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u4	The Prime Minister's statement contained an interesting piece on European energy policy. I have already had an exchange of views with the Foreign Minister in an AO on the existing binding European agreements on clean energy, on their transfer to Member States and on the extent to which the Netherlands is prepared to make the agreements that apply to the Netherlands binding, especially given that we are leaving only Malta and Luxembourg behind in Europe in terms of poor performance in the field of clean, renewable, renewable energy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u5	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u6	Whether the cabinet intends to come out of the rearguard and make the translation binding for the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u7	We in Europe have agreed on the objectives of energy saving, renewable energy and CO reduction. Some of these objectives are binding at European and national level, some of which are European agreements that are not translated into national binding agreements and some of which are also voluntary agreements at European level. The Netherlands will, of course, abide by the commitments made in the October Council last year.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u8	But just now, the Prime Minister made an interesting point. He talked about regional cooperation in the field of energy. That's to be commended, but the Netherlands is way behind schedule. We want to be 14% by 2020, but we are less than 5% now. That would mean that in five years we have to do something that is almost impossible to do. So my question, which I repeat, is: does the cabinet intend to increase these questions for itself at least in a European context and to make them more binding?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u9	The Netherlands itself, of course, has laid down a number of very strong national ambitions in the energy agreement. I believe that this was also with the support of Mr Pechtold. Some of this is catching up, but the ambitions also offer opportunities for Dutch innovation and market opportunities and opportunities for the Netherlands as an exporting country in Europe. I think that we should make the energy agreement a success in particular. Moreover, it has been said about the European agreements that they will come back after COP 20, i.e. after Paris, to see if there is sufficient level playing field internationally. On that basis, the Netherlands will of course comply with these commitments. Looking at the various European commitments and the Dutch share in them, my impression is that the Netherlands is not a bad scorer. However, I do agree with Mr Pechtold that we are not really ahead at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u10	I have two questions that I then divide into 26 smaller parts.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u11	That's what I thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u12	You've been expecting that. My first question is whether we have discussed the handling of MH17, and in particular the possible cooperation with Ukraine, and what the European Union can achieve to ensure, for example, access to the disaster site.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u13	No, that was not the subject of this European Council. It is of course discussed in many places, but it has not been discussed at this European Council.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u14	Mr Buma, your second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u15	My second question, with which the other 25 parts have also lapsed. The Prime Minister said about the piece on migration that comes in May, that the cabinet looks at it through the glasses of the government agreement. I understand that, but the coalition agreement is very limited. What is the government's glasses when it comes to migration, immigration and asylum insofar as it is not in the government agreement, and how does the Prime Minister look at these parts?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u16	Oh, that's a difficult question. Those are all kinds of conceivable other variants.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u17	No, I don't want to make the debate very difficult right away. The coalition agreement is very limited; there are a number of specific things in it, but there are many more aspects of asylum, migration and immigration that are not included in the coalition agreement in May, but also these days. How does the cabinet deal with proposals from, for example, Europe or the Netherlands on asylum and immigration policy if they are not included in the government agreement?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u18	The Prime Minister. I don't want to ask a question, but I want you to answer it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u19	I find it very complicated. I assume that Mr Buma refers to a specific proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u20	My request was actually to answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u21	It's two things. It is also funny how difficult the Prime Minister makes this easy question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u22	That's how you get the 26.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u23	Thanks to the Prime Minister. The proposal comes from Europe in May and is about migration. The Prime Minister says that we will judge that from the coalition agreement. However, that coalition agreement is about a number of specific things, while migration policy is much wider. And indeed, that also concerns the note we received from the VVD these days. A lot of that is not in the coalition agreement at all...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u24	Your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u25	So I put it to the Prime Minister: how does the cabinet deal with those parts that the government agreement is silent about? Is the cabinet free in there? Are the coalition parties free to do so? How am I supposed to see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u26	No. The proposal that emerged from the VVD is not a cabinet policy. It is a view of one of the major political parties in the Chamber. When I look through my eye hairs at the coalition agreement, I see that there is no room to accept those proposals. I really regard it as an important contribution of the largest political party in this Chamber to the debate. In this sense, the proposal is extremely useful. However, the coalition agreement now leaves no room to make this proposal into a cabinet policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u27	I have hardly heard the Prime Minister in his statement about the enormous asylum crisis we are in. Does he not think that the Netherlands simply cannot cope with this huge asylum influx and that we should stop allowing asylum seekers, especially if they come from outside Europe? That's what we heard the VVD say.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u28	The government's asylum and migration policy is restrictive and robust. The paragraph on this in the coalition agreement also exudes that. Along that line of thought is looked at the entire asylum influx. The Netherlands is very keen when it comes to admitting asylum seekers. In the last year we have seen an increase in the number of asylum seekers due to a number of crises, particularly in Africa and the Middle East, in Syria. This has an impact on the influx of asylum into the Netherlands, which is increasing as a result. However, this can be seen throughout Europe. The general line is that the Netherlands pursues a fair but restrictive asylum policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u29	That's not an answer to my question. In the current situation, all asylum seekers who apply in the Netherlands have equal rights to reception, an asylum procedure and so on. Does the Prime Minister agree, or does he think that this is simply not possible anymore, given the enormous pressure on asylum and the huge influx of asylum? I just want a simple answer to that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u30	I think it is a good thing that the Netherlands is pursuing a fair and restrictive asylum policy. We send a clear signal to other parts of the world. Sometimes people think they can get here without good reason. However, the chances of them being admitted are almost nil. If people come here for good reasons, if they are in trouble, we can offer them an opportunity here, provided they meet all the conditions, such as the Dublin criteria and all the agreements that have been made in Europe. That is our asylum policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u31	I see that Mr Fritsma is not satisfied with this answer, but Mrs Maij may now intervene.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u32	Another issue that the Prime Minister mentioned and which is also mentioned in his feedback letter is TTIP. In that letter there is a fairly expressed sentence: "Nevertheless, there is a shared understanding among government leaders that the image of TTIP is not undivided positive in public opinion." I think we can all endorse that. It then concluded that a committed dialogue with society should take place. Dialogue is good and a committed dialogue is even better, but how exactly will it take shape? In what way will the government implement this in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u33	The floor is waiting until there is more clarity about the exact contours of TTIP. It is very important that Commissioner Malmström presented proposals for resolving the ISDS problem on 18 March 2015, the day of the elections in the Netherlands. The Netherlands considers this to be positive first proposals, reflecting many of the thoughts expressed by Minister Ploumen, the Minister for Foreign Trade, on this issue. It contributes to greater support for the entire TTIP structure. This concerns specifically the ISDS issue. There is also a broader issue: how do we ensure that standards do not slip away? We want to maintain the solid standards we have in this part of the world, in Europe. Here too you see a great degree of convergence. Next, it is important that dialogue with society be properly conducted on this issue, that false imagery be removed and that all kinds of fears be avoided on this issue. This will, of course, increase in volume as the proposals become more concrete.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u34	I'd like to build on that. In a number of other countries of the European Union, we already see the dialogue taking place. There, at least, opinions are exchanged in society and between government and society. In the Netherlands this happens less. If we want to encourage a committed dialogue, especially to show that there are good elements in it, it seems to me a little late to wait until the contours are there. How is the government going to respond to this beautiful appeal? The Netherlands takes the call to heart, as it says, but how is it implemented?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u35	By certainly not doing what is in the question as fear, but hopefully not desirable, namely waiting for the whole thing to be completed and only then to have the conversation. As there is more clarity about ISDS, about standards, about the broader contours of TTIP, we want to discuss all these issues with all relevant societal forces.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u36	I would also like to ask a question about this, because it is a curious sentence. It sounds like: there are concerns, we have to throw a good news show and a PR machine and then everything will be fine. But there are very serious objections, for example in the German Government, of which the Social Democratic Minister Gabriel said: we should not move towards the privatisation of dispute resolution. That's a very clear picket pole. He said that Germany must be prepared to draw a line there. Is the Dutch Government prepared to draw the same line on this very fundamental point?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u37	On the subject of European standards for humans, animals and plants there are fears with the German Vice Chancellor and Minister for Economic Affairs Sigmar Gabriel. He has literally said that he is afraid that this will lead to a reduction in those European standards. The Netherlands is on the same side as Germany, namely that we think it is very important that the high level of protection of the EU remains fully in force. That is the real purpose of both America and the Netherlands. We will also monitor it strictly. The European Commission has repeatedly ensured that the European Union retains scope to maintain its own high-quality social model.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u38	This is not my second question, but a repeat of my first, because the Prime Minister has not answered my question. He heard "Gabriel" and thought: I'll take a quote, because that's what it's about. However, I was concerned with another part of the quote. Minister Gabriel said he didn't want to privatise the dispute settlement. That therefore relates to ISDS. When it comes to these standards, I fully agree with the Prime Minister. We should not reduce them; we should also make a ruling in the Chamber on this matter. However, I am talking about dispute resolution. Minister Gabriel draws a line there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u39	A proposal was made on 18 March by Malmström, the relevant European Commissioner. These proposals, I believe, strike a good balance between protecting the legitimate interests of investors and protecting the legitimate interests of sovereign states in order to have the freedom to conduct public policies and to keep them secure for the future. Those proposals shall focus on a transparent resolution mechanism with qualified arbitrators. Investment protection will not be able to interfere with decisions under national legal procedures. That is also in Malmström's proposal through the arbitration mechanism. Thus, such a mechanism will not de facto function as a supreme court. That's what worries lived about, including Gabriel. All these points are in line with the improvements already made by the Netherlands by Lilianne Ploumen, the Minister for Foreign Trade, also on the basis of a study on the effects of ISDS in TTIP. She and Sigmar Gabriel are very close to that. There is therefore very intensive contact between the Dutch and German Governments on this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u40	Mr Segers, I see that you are not satisfied, but we will have a deadline for that later. You have received a comprehensive answer to your second question. You will be given a new opportunity to raise this point. Each one is about his own answer. The Prime Minister has tried to answer you. I give the floor to Mr Bontes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u41	I'd like to come back to the block about Russia. Russia has threatened the Danish Navy with nuclear missile missiles because it participates in the NATO missile shield. Was this serious threat discussed at the summit? Is the Netherlands threatened too?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u42	These issues have not been specifically addressed. In general terms, the situation between Europe and Russia has been discussed, especially in relation to the situation in Ukraine. However, this particular issue has not been raised.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u43	I have heard from the media that the Prime Minister is not going to the military parade in Moscow in May. The same goes for the Foreign Minister, apparently.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u44	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u45	Does that apply to the entire government? Isn't the Dutch government going to the military parade in Moscow?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u46	That's right. There are no Dutch ministers and secretaries of state going to the parade. The Netherlands will be represented, but not by a member of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u47	I'd like to go back to TTIP. I would like to come back to that curious phrase which seems to say that the propaganda machine in Europe, and therefore also in the Netherlands, must be turned on. There would be delusions about TTIP and therefore there should be good communication about TTIP; the cabinet actively picks it up. I do not think it is enough for the cabinet to wait until there are clearer contours. I would like to hear from the Prime Minister when we can expect a letter from the Cabinet stating how the debate with society on this far-reaching treaty is being negotiated with the United States.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u48	In the question I hear a certain distrust from the corner of GroenLinks. It looks like this passage would be meant on some kind of good news show. That's not the point. I don't think this is working either. It means that we are actually going to talk to all relevant actors in society about the advantages and disadvantages of TTIP. There'll be disadvantages, too. We also want to discuss them openly. I will have my official advise on the question of when we can communicate with the Chamber about the form. I will come back to that in second term. In any case, the debate with society will gain in strength as there is more clarity about the contours. It should not take place if the proposals are already finished, but if they are more concrete.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u49	I'm curious to hear the answer. I think it's important that it happens quickly. The stakeholders are not just civil society organisations. All citizens in the Netherlands are interested in concluding such a trade agreement with the United States. It can lead to a far-reaching reduction of the rights we have and of the agreements we have made with each other on food safety, animal safety and the scope we give multinationals. All Dutch are interested in this. I would like to hear how all Dutch people are involved in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u50	First, I would like to be advised by the public on the ideas that exist with Minister Ploumen and her people. I don't have it ready, but I'll come back to that in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u51	I'll come back to TTIP. I also noticed the passage that has been quoted several times.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u52	We won't answer that next time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u53	I assume that further steps have been taken and that the sentence has become superfluous.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u54	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u55	The key phrase is: "Nevertheless, there is a shared awareness among government leaders that the image of TTIP in public opinion is not undivided positive." This shows that the Heads of Government are aware of the criticism of TTIP. In such a case, you can do two things. You can say that the Heads of Government are listening and checking to what extent the objections are shared and justified, and then adjusting the process. You can also say that there must be an even more committed dialogue. That's what it says now. This calls for the suggestion that the current policy in particular should be advocated. It's a kind of regentesque attitude: this is good, that's the way it should be, but we need to explain it to people better. My specific question is as follows. Has there been any specific discussion among the Heads of Government about the option of discussing the objections with the objectors? Are the Heads of Government prepared to adapt TTIP where possible, useful and necessary?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u56	It is not the plan to explain ex cathedra the blessings of TTIP to society. Speaking of a committed dialogue, it's two-sided. You also want to listen to what comes back. If there's any sense coming back, you want to do something with it. In that sense, I can reassure the SGP. In my opinion, the two models presented by Mr Bishop are not in conflict with each other. They go very well together. In fact, they're completely overlapping. We are going to have a good conversation with all the relevant actors in society, at different stages of the TTIP construction, including the issue of investment protection. We will then continue to consider whether the dialogues will lead to changes in the proposals. Otherwise, there's no point. As a social organisation, I would not be interested in having such a conversation, if it were said beforehand: we then change nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u57	Thank you for this explanation. If this had been included in the paragraph in question, at least you would not have had this question from me and probably not from colleagues. It's been further expanded now, but I'd just put that on paper next time. The Prime Minister will undoubtedly share that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u58	Yes, after 15 questions have been asked, I also have the impression that we could have written that down even better, surely. I take this coaching to heart.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u59	I have a 16th question, maybe from a slightly different angle. When I hear talk about a committed dialogue with civil society, as a liberal, I always know that I have to be on my qui-vive.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u60	Relevant social actors!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u61	You know I'm a little skeptical about calls for social debate like that. TTIP: pretty important. If you do so, it must be done with a real reflection of the stakeholders. So you're talking not only to civil society organisations, who look at it from a certain angle, but also to entrepreneurs, for whom TTIP is about to offer huge opportunities.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u62	In view of the specific composition of this coalition, that sound will also be heard loudly in that constructive dialogue. Also loudly present.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u63	The Energy Union was the subject of great talk at this summit, especially by the President of the European Parliament, Mr Schulz. He gave a speech in which he actually compared the Energy Union with the basis of the common market, the European Coal and Steel Community. On the Dutch side, it has always been stressed that Member States must have the freedom to compile their own energy mix. Does this fit in with the image of the President of the European Parliament, who has advocated 'a fully integrated energy market'? Does the Netherlands also maintain in a fully integrated energy market the freedom advocated by the cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u64	We know the President of the European Parliament as an enthusiastic man, who, in his enthusiasm, sometimes makes statements that raise the question of where to find it in the discussions, but that is also his charm. What he means by a fully integrated energy market, you have to ask him yourself. I note that we have taken a big step. A communication has been issued by the Commission. We have talked about this, about this communication on the Energy Union. We have said that we broadly agree with that. That communication has been discussed in all relevant professional councils and provides for cooperation to be sought where necessary and where it is powerful. It also states that we look closely at our relationship with other parts of the world, with Russia, the Middle East, and that we look at energy dependency, sustainability and economic interests. It also states that the energy mix remains a matter for the Member States.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u65	I agree with the latter. That is, of course, also the wish of the SP. It is probably also the wish of most Member States, if it comes to an end, because it also determines your own industry, your market and your own dependence or independence. However, I welcome the relativistic remarks made by the Prime Minister about the statements made by the President of the European Parliament, perhaps also about the President himself. In any case, I also hear some relativity with regard to his position. I am all pleased with that, but the question is whether there is a committed dialogue there. I assume that the President of the European Parliament, not the first, will not just be there to make his speech and then leave. I assume that there is a dialogue there and that the Netherlands, in the person of the Prime Minister, can also make a Dutch contribution to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u66	No, it's not. He is there and he is making a speech at the beginning of the European Council. Then there is an opportunity to ask questions, but they are used only to a limited extent, because that is not the formal relationship either. It is above all the Commission that understands Parliament and not the Heads of Government. We have three institutions, the Commission, the European Council and Parliament, and it is above all the Commission that conducts the dialogue, and possibly the Netherlands when we are President. I will be there often, in the European Parliament, and also in the run-up to our Presidency. I am going back there at the beginning of May to prepare the European Presidency, but normally it is mainly a matter for the Commission. However, his presence in the European Council is very sensible and I did not wish to say anything negative about the man. I'm very fond of him. He is a huge driving force behind debates and discussions, which, in his enthusiasm, may, however, come up with statements that are not entirely grounded in the underlying documents. But that doesn't have to be a big deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u67	That is the end of the first period of this debate. I'll go straight to the second term. I shall give the floor to Mr Pechtold of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u68	Mr. Chairman. If I were Mr Schulz, I would be careful, because after such a compliment from the Prime Minister, you will usually lose your job within two weeks. Thank you to the Prime Minister for his clear statement and thank you, Mr President, for this experiment with the debate. It was the first time and my group really sees opportunities in it. First of all, the terrible news that came in this morning. In the south of France, a plane crashed. In it were 150 men and women, including a whole school class, we understood. My group is, of course, shocked, as is the Prime Minister. However, we also hear that there was a Dutch of 20 years on the plane. I would like to ask the Prime Minister if he can tell us more in this debate, to seize that opportunity as well. Then Greece. For days our eastern neighbours were under the spell of one question, and only one question: had Minister Varoufakis really raised his middle finger? Perhaps that will always be a mystery, but Prime Minister Tsipras was in Berlin yesterday to speak with Chancellor Merkel. The links had to be strengthened and the economy had to be discussed. Tsipras said: We now know what we agree on and what we disagree on. This morning we heard that Greece will come up with new plans by next Monday at the latest. My group awaits this with great interest. We keep kicking this can out in front of us. Greece will have to put an acceptable plan on the table very quickly. I'd like the Prime Minister's response. Then Russia. Putin was lost for a while, but he turned up again. And then what did he do? He went live on television and congratulated Russia and Crimea on the annexation, exactly a year ago. Now, of course, we knew what was happening there, but this openness of Putin is fascinating. Two days later, the Russian ambassador to Denmark wrote an opinion document and warned the Danes: do not participate in a NATO missile shield, because then Danish ships will become........................................................................................................................................................................................... That's the Russia we're dealing with right now. It is therefore a good thing that the Prime Minister and the Foreign Minister do not go to Russia for the commemoration of the Second World War, as the Prime Minister has just confirmed. No repetition of Sochi and therefore a right signal to the Kremlin. We also support NATO training in Poland to underline its links with that ally. What new steps does the Prime Minister see in this file? Is Boris Nemtsov's death under investigation or is that investigation completely dead? How does the cabinet read Russian exercises in the Ice Sea and the deployment of state-of-the-art missiles in Kaliningrad and bombers on Crimea? I'd like to get a reaction to this. Although I have already asked a question on this point in the course of the work, I still have a question on what we will call the 'Azmani Plan'. We were told this on Sunday evening; a VVD project to close Europe to asylum seekers. I would like a further response to that than the short response that has just been given. My group has been asking the cabinet for weeks, within the framework of European summits, to appoint Lampedusa for the European Council. We do not want people drowning at our European borders. The cabinet keeps saying: don't have to, we'll discuss elsewhere. Are we gonna do that now? What treaties are at stake? The Prime Minister can say that it is a group plan and not a cabinet plan, but his sentence just now that the coalition agreement has not been changed is, of course, cryptic, because will it be changed or will it be changed? In short, I would like to know whether the Prime Minister is going to continue with that plan, whether he is taking over it or taking over parts of it, or whatever. What does he say to European colleagues when they ask him to do this? Does he refer to Mr Azmani or does he have his own opinion? I'm rounding up. This debate, in this form, is a good experiment. However, the Prime Minister will have to take some more into account in his forthcoming statements.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u69	Mr. Chairman. I am thinking of two subjects. First of all, I come to talk about Ukraine and Russia and the sanctions against Russia. Last Friday, DNB noted that the sanctions we have imposed have not all been implemented as effectively and properly and that trust offices can still be used by Russian oligarchs. I would like to hear a response from the Prime Minister. Has the Council discussed the effectiveness of these sanctions? I would also like to refer to TTIP, especially the paragraph in the feedback letter we have just mentioned about the interrupt microphone, which states that it is important to seek dialogue with stakeholders. I really read those words as if TTIP had to be sold to the Dutch citizen, almost pushed down the throat if I may say it unparliamentaryly. I think that's a bad thing. We often talk about transfers of sovereignty when it comes to Europe. We often talk about the loss of influence of the Netherlands. I think you all know that I am a great supporter of more Europe. I'm a European. I would also be very pleased if we could cooperate more, even if this leads to the transfer of sovereignty. However, you have to be honest and clear about that. That must be done very clearly, not in the back rooms. What is happening now is even more dangerous than any further integration of Europe. The Netherlands is about to give away sovereignty through a trade treaty. As a result, we will no longer be dealing with the standards and values we set ourselves, for example, for keeping animals or the food we take. I still find ISDS the most shocking: the possibility for large multinationals to reverse democratic decisions through extra-judicial or private dispute resolution. I always give an example of tax avoidance. I think a number of people are looking to the right, too, and I fear that GroenLinks will ever get an absolute majority in this Chamber. If that happens, then the voter has spoken. Then we decide to reverse all measures for large multinationals and to tackle tax avoidance vigorously. Then we can make a democratic decision to increase taxes here, but then companies like Google, Starbucks or IKEA can make a detour, via ISDS, to ensure that this tax increase does not take place. That's what we're talking about. It directly affects the law of this parliament and therefore directly affects all citizens in the Netherlands. That is why this dialogue, the propaganda campaign that I want to see as a dialogue, should focus not only on the VNO-NCWs and the Oxfam Novibs of this world, i.e. on civil society, but on all citizens. I shall table a motion for a resolution on this matter. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Free Trade Agreement between the European Union and the United States (TTIP) can have a major impact on European standards for the environment, protection of workers, privacy and animal welfare;]] [[whereas it is desirable that maximum transparency should be given to citizens on these fundamental issues and that they should be able to exercise democratic control over them;]] [[calls on the government, an advisory referendum, EU-wide or in the Netherlands, to organise on TTIP,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Klaver. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-962]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u70	I hope that the strong supporters of this treaty are also in favour of this motion. I believe that starting this process is the way to get the discussion about this treaty going in the Netherlands. That's the most important thing. My group has never opposed the conclusion of treaties or further cooperation in the field of trade. However, this treaty transfers incredibly much sovereignty, and we cannot do so without the discussion with the Dutch people and without our express agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u71	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Prime Minister for his statement. On behalf of the CDA, I would like to join with the Prime Minister's condolences to the families of the victims of the disaster and also Mr Pechtold's comment that if there are any comments to be made on this matter by the Prime Minister, there is, of course, that opportunity. As has often been the case, not even the summit itself, but everything around it was the reason for news, first and foremost the progress of the Greek support programme. There is a discussion with Greece on what to do now after the Council meeting. Has the Prime Minister become what concrete steps are being taken in this process? Yesterday, the news showed that the arrival of Prime Minister Tsipras in Berlin would also mean that he already had concrete proposals there. Are they there yet? Are they known to the Prime Minister? If so, what will happen? It is clear that time is running out for the Greeks. Then I come to the situation in Ukraine. During the debate before the summit, my group asked, among other things, how compliance with the Minsk agreements would be monitored on the ground. Several bodies involved in this control indicate that they have major problems with access to the area. How far has this progress been made? At the same time, yesterday we see that fighting around Marioepol is now also being reported. I do not know whether this has already been happening in the Council, but how should Europe respond to this violation of the Minsk agreements? I understand that the Prime Minister says that we need not be afraid that Europe will soon reduce its sanctions against Russia. In the end, is there still a willingness to tighten up sanctions when necessary? Eventually, that stick behind the door is needed. In May, the European Commission, as stated in the letter sent by the Prime Minister, will present a European Agenda for Migration. I just asked a question about it. It is of course extremely important, especially when you see what Greece pretends to be about opening the migration locks. Has that been discussed in the Council? Did the Prime Minister say that, as far as the Netherlands is concerned, Greece must leave Schengen if that threat is to be met? Members of the VVD showed the light of day on this subject. Apart from the big words about the borders that are closing, the note is, in fact, full of proposals that many parties in this house have already made and stronger, with which the cabinet should have been working for two years. However, the cabinet did not do so. I myself asked for measures in November following the then increased influx of asylum seekers, but apparently the iron is now hot and we must forge it. I put forward a motion calling on the government to work with those elements which are not contrary to the coalition agreement, because the coalition agreement is silent and are actually calls that I say are: it is rather a motion of censure against the cabinet than it is directly new policy. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas each refugee is entitled to safe accommodation;]] [[Whereas the prohibition on returning to a country where the refugee has to fear persecution or where his life or safety is at risk is respected;]] [[Whereas European asylum policy is under increasing pressure;]] [[calls on the Government to make a new common European asylum policy a spearhead of national immigration policy and of the Dutch presidency along the following concrete lines:]] [[improved surveillance of the European external borders;]] [[concrete agreements on ensuring safe ports for the reception of refugees in the region;]] [[introduction of an invitational resettlement system for refugees in extreme situations;]] [[a migration system based on a combination of a point system and a system where employers can attract migrants;]] [[calls on the Prime Minister to co-ordinate this within the framework of the EU Presidency and to report to the Chamber quarterly on progress,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by members Van Haersma Buma, Pechtold and Van der Staaij. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-963]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u72	The Prime Minister must come from a good place if he knows how to turn it so that the coalition agreement makes it impossible for him to carry out this motion. It has been carefully examined, including in the note itself, whether these parts are not contrary to the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u73	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I agree with Mr Klaver's questions about Ukraine and Russia and the possible evasion of sanctions by trust offices. Those offices don't know their customers enough and they don't know who the money came from. This could undermine the effectiveness of the sanctions. That is why I agree with those questions. My second point concerns Greece. The Prime Minister made a very curious point in his explanatory statement. He said that Greece should come up with a reform programme that should lead to existing agreements. In other words, you have to work very hard on something that has been agreed on a long time ago. Isn't that the illustration of the problem? There are agreements, but in the meantime, a month after the extension of the loan, we have not made much progress. We're not getting much further than reconfirming existing agreements. Hasn't a lot of time been wasted while it's five to twelve? How urgent does Greece itself see this situation? What is the IMF's stance in this story? At the time, in February, the IMF was the most critical in extending lending. When will the IMF be full? What does this mean for the Netherlands, which has always had the view that the involvement of the IMF is a prerequisite for participating? Finally, I will deal with TTIP. As far as TTIP is concerned, I can also endorse Mr Klaver's illustration. However, I would like to use another illustration to indicate where the pain is when it comes to ISDS. Uruguay is a country where there is a huge amount of smoking. The government has announced some effective measures that have reduced smoking. This led to Philip Morris' claim of 2 billion on the basis of a treaty between Switzerland and Uruguay. That is where the pain lies: the erosion of the rule of law and the erosion of democratic decision-making through dispute resolution of a treaty. That is where Minister Gabriel's concern is focused in Germany, which is also the concern of, among other things, the Christian Union's group. That's why I'm tabling the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas our democratic rule of law and values such as human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality of law and protection of environmental and human rights must be maintained;]] [[points out that TTIP should not contain dispute resolution that undermines our national legal system and our democratic decision-making,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Segers, Mr Van Bommel, Mr Klaver and Mr Omtzigt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-964]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u74	I'd like to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u75	Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the PVV Group, I too would like to express my condolences to the families of the victims of today's terrible disaster. I would also like to ask the Prime Minister, where possible, to provide further information on this matter. I'll start with asylum policy. As we know, the PVV wants to tackle mass immigration and stop the asylum influx. We want that in a different way from the VVD Group, but because we believe that the asylum plan of the VVD Group is a very nice second best plan and because we hope that this has not been written for nothing, I would like to table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the current migration system is unsustainable because it is difficult to distinguish between refugees and migrants with only economic motives, and facilitates human trafficking and human tragedies;]] [[Whereas the current uncontrolled influx of migrants cannot prevent terrorists from finding their way to Europe;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the European external borders are closed and that asylum seekers from outside Europe are not received in our country,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Fritsma, Mr Beertema and Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-965]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u76	In abundance, the considerations in this motion come directly from the beautiful VVD plan. I have one more question, and it concerns the Greeks. As we know, Greece has simply blackmailed the Netherlands and the other countries with the announcement that mass asylum seekers will be poured out over North-West Europe if the Netherlands does not come up with money. In response, the Prime Minister stated in his statement: "Greece was further sensitised at an informal meeting." What are we gonna do with this? Is this blackmail of the Greeks off the table or not? Is that chopped up or not? Have the Greeks made a clear commitment not to send thousands of asylum seekers to North-West Europe or not? And if not, is the Prime Minister prepared to throw Greece out of Schengen or, even better, to step out of Schengen and control our own borders again? I can conclude with this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u77	Mr. Chairman. Like my fellow Members, I would like to join with him in expressing the Prime Minister's sympathy for the victims of the air crash that took place today. Should the Prime Minister hear more about this, I'd like to hear it. As a result of the debate and the feedback from the Prime Minister, I have a few points on our commitment to the European Council. I'll start with TTIP. The PvdA also wants an ambitious free trade agreement that ensures economic growth, but we share concerns about threats to European standards. This agreement can also have negative consequences, not only positive ones, for the EU and the Netherlands. The agreement, as we have said before, should not jeopardise our European standards on food safety, privacy and labour rights. So no chlorine chickens, hormone meat or genetically engineered food in European supermarkets. Minister Ploumen and Commissioner Malmström said TTIP will not lower our environmental standards and social standards. That seems to me to be a very good starting point, and we will be happy to follow the Prime Minister. The ISDS has already been mentioned today. The PvdA welcomes the initiative taken by Minister Ploumen and the German Minister Sigmar Gabriel to address ISDS and its problems. We do hope that the Commission will come forward with a new proposal quickly and we would also like to see its content. The starting point must be that it is not possible for private parties ultimately to take on this dispute resolution. Then short Ukraine and Russia. The Council discussed the implementation of the Minsk agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u78	Mr Segers has another question on the previous point, Mrs Maij.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u79	My question is what is the position of the PvdA Group with regard to the statements made by a friendly politician in Germany, Minister Gabriel. He says no private dispute resolution via ISDS. He has therefore set a very clear standard, drawn a line. Is that also the line the PvdA group draws here?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u80	I think I just heard myself say that it is out of the question for the PvdA to agree to a private form of dispute resolution. That's about the same thing, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u81	Then a little more precise...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u82	More precise?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u83	Yeah, even more precise. So it is not possible for a large multinational to undermine democratic decision-making and the norms of our rule of law through ISDS?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u84	I found your motion very sympathetic, Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u85	Please continue, Mrs. Maij.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u86	I would have stayed with the Minsk arrangements. The Prime Minister said something about it, but it remains of course important that political solutions are sought and that a solution on which there is a common position within the European Union is sought. There must be unity between the Member States of the European Union and between the European Union and the US. I just couldn't get it all sharp. Is there now agreement on extending sanctions to the full implementation of Minsk II, at least until the end of 2015, or is that still to be decided? Is that gonna come back at a later date? Maybe the Prime Minister can color the force field on this. I come to the Eastern Partnership. We supported the government's intention to use the summit to consolidate that Eastern Partnership, also in view of the unrest in the Eastern Partnership region. I am referring in particular to the conflict in eastern Ukraine. The PvdA is in favour of continuing to support transformation, democratisation and increased transparency in this region and in these countries. That is why it is also positive that the report states that a decision has been taken to give extra attention to the region of the southern neighbourhood later this year. Unfortunately, we have noticed that the celebration of the Arab Spring has resulted in a devastating and raging afterparty. We'll all share that here. In May, the Commission will present a vision on migration. The PvdA wants the government to actively promote a common European asylum policy at European level, to ensure decent reception and protection in the region as well as decent reception and protection in the Member States. For we also see that the number of refugees from war areas is unabated and that the number of people applying for asylum has increased in Europe. However, we believe that people fleeing war, persecution or violence should have and should be able to maintain a safe haven, including in Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u87	Mr. Chairman. Just last week, when I pointed out the Russian nuclear threat, I was scorned by the Prime Minister. Now it appears that Danish naval ships will become a target of a Russian nuclear attack if they continue to cooperate with NATO's missile shield. That's an unprecedented threat. The "evil empire" is back. Our Navy is also involved in the NATO missile shield. To the next question to the Prime Minister, I have just received a bad answer. That's why I'm asking you again. Have there been any threats to the Netherlands? According to Russian opposition leader Garri Kasparov, Europe underestimates the danger from Moscow. Europe is weak and naive. Putin will go on and on when he senses weakness. That is precisely why we need to change our security policy. We have to assume force. Enter heavier economic sanctions and strengthen our armed forces. We have to invest 5 billion more in Defense every year, in our Navy, in the Army and in the Air Force. Europe must never become a prey for the maniac Putin. Finally, I come to Greece. That country is led by an extremely left-wing gang and will not keep its promises. The Greeks will continue their shameless blackmail policy. We're really out of patience right now. Greece must leave the euro area and Schengen. The country has become too much of an economic and security risk. I'd like to hear a response from the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u88	Mr. Chairman. I would like to join with the words of sympathy expressed by the Prime Minister for the families of the victims of the terrible disaster we have heard today. On 14 July 1789 the French state prison de Bastille was stormed by Parisians. This storm has subsequently become the symbol of the beginning of the French Revolution. The then king Louis XVI wrote that day in his diary: "rien," so "nothing." There's nothing today, nothing special. That's become legendary. Although the "rien" referred to the fact that he hadn't caught anything in the hunt, apparently that political fact of social unrest and the storming of the state prison hadn't become him. That memory came to my mind when reading the report on the European summit. There is a lot going on, but there is nothing about the acute problem of Greece. Well, a few rules, that's true, among other things, about the consultation at or after the dinner of the European Council. The SGP has noted with interest the report of the European Council. It is good to take note of all kinds of ongoing developments, but criticism for Europe is, of course, the Greek situation at the moment. However, the section on Greece is best summarized in one sentence: The President of the Eurogroup and the Prime Minister of the Netherlands, Mr Dijsselbloem and Mr Rutte, have insisted on the fulfilment of the promises made. The key question is what the Prime Minister is basing the confidence that Greece will now keep its promises. So far, Greece has given no or little reason to rely on it. It did make promises, but it's a variant on a well-known proverb "The way of Hellas is paved with good intentions." That's it. This week, a list of comprehensive plans has to be sent. At first that was Wednesday, I believe, but I understand that it has now become Monday next week. A month ago we also received a list of reforms. It's just a place where time is bought. What does this mean? I would like to hear the Prime Minister's reflection on that. I also name the hot potato: grexit. It can't be otherwise or scenarios for a grexit are ready. When will they be shared with the relevant Chambers, or Commission, of choice European Affairs or Finance or Foreign Affairs? It's okay, he's gonna figure it out, or we're gonna figure it out, or the Registry and the chairman will figure it out, but they're gonna have to be made subject to conversation, if necessary in confidentiality. Surely the Prime Minister is not allowed to record in his diary this evening: nothing, no news about Greece?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u89	Mr. Chairman. The VVD would also like to join with the Prime Minister and colleagues in expressing their sympathy for the families of the victims of today's terrible air disaster. When watching the newscasts about last week's euro summit, a variation on an old joke occurred to me. "Do you know that euro summit where Greece wasn't on the agenda?" It was just about Greece. In itself that is understandable and a good thing about it is that Greece is getting one message over and over again. As we have been told, this was also the case with the visit to Germany. The message that Greece gets time and time again is: the ball is with you and you must deliver now. These proposals will then be reviewed by the troika. In the debate prior to the European summit, we talked not only about how important it is for Greece to comply with those agreements, but also about the rather crazy way in which the Greeks think they should communicate with other Member States. I am referring to the threats to open up borders, pressure on Germany, the threat to expropriate property and so on. At that time, we asked the Prime Minister to address Greece not only with regard to the fulfilment of the financial commitments, but also with regard to the way in which we in Europe should deal with each other. Has this happened and what was Greece's reaction to it? After Greece, which we are undoubtedly going to talk about again in the coming weeks, the next important and exciting moment comes in April. How's France? That country too will have to present a robust package of measures in that month. We read in the feedback from the Prime Minister that with regard to the Semester, the Netherlands stressed the importance of meeting these budgetary commitments from the SGP. How is the force field at the moment when such discussions take place? As far as we are concerned, April really is a month of truth. Finally, I would like to deal briefly with two things. I have already said something about the committed dialogue on TTIP. I won't bother the Prime Minister with it for the seventeenth time. In conclusion, therefore, I would like to say a few words about the Energy Union. The Prime Minister says: we have once again stressed the importance of shaping the internal market together with other partners. My question is who the other partners are on that dossier right now and how it went.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u90	I don't hear a word about the VVD asylum plan. Here's what I'm wondering. Last Sunday, the VVD presents that asylum plan with a lot of bombs. Now nothing's gonna happen to it. The Prime Minister says he's not gonna do anything with it either. How many dead sparrows does the VVD want to make the Dutch citizen happy?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u91	I think we have a retrospective debate here on last week's European summit. Today, as many as two debates have been scheduled on the great plan of my colleague Azmani. One will take place this week, the other next week. Those are good debates. Some parties have already given me encouraging signals here. I heard a colleague say: if you read further, it's actually a pretty good plan. I'm sure they'll be very fruitful debates. That is where my colleague Azmani will be defending the proposals of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u92	Of course, I can't settle for that. This debate is about the EU, all the problems that the EU knows. It was also a question of immigration and asylum, also in connection with the threats by the Greeks to send asylum seekers in this direction. The Prime Minister himself indicated that. And Mr Van 't Wout doesn't say anything about it! There's a VVD asylum plan and Mr Van 't Wout isn't saying anything about it. It's just off the table. Then it is a pity that this plan belongs in the list of the mortgage interest deduction that would remain as a house, the €1,000 that the prime minister would give back to all working Dutch and so on. Again the question: how many dead sparrows will make the citizen happy?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u93	Again, we are going to discuss this extensively twice in the Chamber over the next two weeks. The VVD has laid down its views on a very important issue in the European Union for the years to come. It is good to see that this happens equally to other parties. Let us have good debates on this in the Chamber. Mr Azmani is eager to discuss this with Mr Fritsma. Then I hope that we will see the enthusiasm we saw in Mr Fritsma's term a little bit again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u94	It's amazing how Mr. Van 't Wout moves this subject like a hot potato off his plate. He doesn't want to talk about it. That is what we have to do with Mr Azmani. The Council's agenda included the preparation of a European Commission document on migration and asylum. That is now on the agenda. I have tabled a motion which embraces a number of Mr Van 't Wout's proposals and calls on the Prime Minister to work on them. My analysis that none of what's written on there is in violation of the coalition agreement, is correct?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u95	For that, I would have to study the motion a little more intensively than I have been able to do so so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u96	Then I would ask Mr Van 't Wout to do so. I'll ask the Prime Minister about it, too. But if he takes his own plan seriously, support for this motion is a perfectly normal act. Everything in it is not in the coalition agreement. I checked.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u97	Let's check it out. There will undoubtedly be many more very fine motions for resolutions in the forthcoming debates. In the end, see which motion is the best and gets our votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u98	Mr Van Haersma Buma, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u99	This is exactly what the VVD should not do: a plan that will be launched very big on Sundays and Mondays, already bring it back to something that can be done later. Or it is serious to do the VVD to change asylum and refugee policy. Then Mr Van 't Wout can say: the CDA also recognizes a lot of things that we already said should have been done long ago. It's possible. Or it's Mr. Van 't Wout's content. Now he's gonna read that motion and support it later. Or it's the picture, the hot potato that needs to be pushed forward. And indeed: then nothing happens and the VVD has only shouted loudly. But that doesn't win us anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u100	The VVD considers this plan to be so important that it wants two normal debates and does not use a feedback debate on the European summit to discuss it. Mr Van Haersma Buma is a bit angry, but I sense a positive basic attitude in some respects, so that will be nice conversations in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u101	It does not fit Mr Van 't Wout at all to take the measure here colleagues. Mr Azmani says: I worked on it for a year. Well, it's seven pages. That's been quite a job. It really seems that 48 hours after the very big launch, it turns out to be worth nothing at all, that it was sold with headlines to the media, but that there is a simple question here to respond to a motion that could be entirely in line with it, no answer can be given. It is not that many sentences, so I would like to ask Mr Van 't Wout: read it quietly; do you agree, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u102	We always study every motion carefully. There will undoubtedly be many more motions on this subject. We are going to have two debates on this next week. That also does justice to the VVD's plan. Eventually, there will be a total weighing-down of those motions. It's always like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u103	This is how the VVD always works: announce a lot, make a lot of noise, have two debates, chase the whole of the Netherlands in the curtains or make it enthusiastic, but then it doesn't represent a single thunder. It's always like that with the VVD. D66 asked at this summit a few times: what about Lampedusa; what about those refugees; Prime Minister, should you not imagine? That was all held back. And now Mr. Van 't Wout pretends to have been robbed by a simple question he could have prepared for. Yes, that's how the VVD works: €1,000 promise and then only the drug criminal gets the discount.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u104	I understood that D66 also initially felt that there were some points in the VVD's proposals. I consider all the excitement, but if people think it's okay that there are parties who think about this kind of important problem. That is why it is a good thing that we are going to debate this extensively in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u105	Madam President. Like other political groups and the Prime Minister, I would like to begin by expressing my sympathy to the families of the German airline crash victims. That's a terrible disaster. On the questions, I already addressed the Energy Union as the most important subject of this European Council. It is not for nothing that the President of the European Parliament has spoken about it in such great words. He compared it with the basis for the common market: the European Coal and Steel Community. The question now is what the future of this Energy Union will be. The Netherlands has certain wishes. The Prime Minister already discussed the different positions of, for example, Germany and Poland in relation to the openness of contracts. This openness of contracts is part of the market, as we know it in various areas. I would like to ask the Prime Minister what the Dutch position is. Poland has paid more for gas contracts with Russia than other countries. That calls for openness. On the contrary, Germany wants more confidentiality in the context of its trading position. I would like to get an explanation of the Dutch position. The Prime Minister was critical of a possible transfer of powers on this point. I hope he wishes to repeat that position explicitly here in the Chamber. I think that is very important. The SP does not want a further transfer of power when it comes to energy supply. The Netherlands should be able to decide what the mix looks like.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u106	How does the SP itself stand in this transparency? What would the SP be like if the European Commission were to take part in the bilateral negotiations that Member States are conducting, for example with Russia?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u107	We do not think that is a matter for the European Commission. Well, that's for sure. We do not want the European Commission to try to exert influence through that watch-by-seeing, because that is not just to know what is happening. We do not think it is a matter for the Commission to influence this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u108	If we see Russia trying to break up European countries and Russia trying to use its influence by financing political parties, by setting countries against each other, by offering nice deals with gas prices, isn't that what the European Commission is trying to do? Should we not be much more afraid of Putin in this case than of Brussels? Isn't cooperation really very important? I don't understand why the SP is against it. I don't see the image.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u109	As far as we are concerned, cooperation is certainly desirable. Nor are we mordicus against any form of Energy Union. It is a question of strengthening independence first and foremost. We need to achieve much more savings and renewable energy that we ourselves produce. Getting stronger itself means reducing dependence on Russia or other unstable parties and eventually even eliminating them altogether. So much for the Energy Union. The debate on TTIP is important, precisely because there needs to be much more communication about that treaty. I have already said this in the preparation of this summit. Where's that treaty going? What are the good side of it, what are the bad side? There are reports that, unlike Europe, it would make America much better in terms of employment and economic growth. In order to bring such reports, which contradict each other, into the public debate, there will be much more discussion about the forthcoming treaty, which may be concluded by the end of this year. That's the bet. What will the Dutch cabinet do to ensure that there is also a public debate in the Netherlands involving ordinary people, who will soon be dependent on the results of that treaty, and not just specialists in the Chamber or in the market? Then I'll come to Greece. Yesterday there was a "intercession" between Chancellor Merkel and the Greek Prime Minister Tsipras. This showed that there are still worlds of difference in opinion between the two. How does the Cabinet judge this conversation, these contacts? What is the state of play at the moment? There has also been constant discussion of the question of compensation for the damage suffered during the Second World War, sometimes in terms that make it difficult to appreciate that discussion. I therefore ask the Prime Minister to give his appreciation of this. Legally, that question would have been dealt with, but, as Chancellor Merkel would have said, Germany is always willing to talk. How does the Prime Minister interpret this ruling? Is the possibility of paying off the debt of war with this or not from the negotiating table? I'll close with Ukraine. Kiev and the rebels have concluded a stock in the Minsk II agreement, which seems to be holding up fairly well. At the same time, NATO General Breedlove talks about supplying arms to Ukraine. This will contribute to further escalation. What is the position of the Netherlands on arms supplies? They are, as the Netherlands has always said, highly undesirable. Should the Netherlands not express its views on this issue with regard to the main NATO partner, the United States? I hope that's what's gonna happen or what's already happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u110	That is the end of the Chamber's term. The Prime Minister has requested a short suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u111	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to mention the latest news about the terrible air disaster in France. The latest news is that the State Department has confirmed that there is one Dutch victim. The State Department will find out if there were any other Dutch on board. That cannot be ruled out at the moment. There is still no clarity about this at the moment. So until now, it has been confirmed that there is one Dutch victim. That's extremely sad. We extend our condolences to all the relatives, family and friends of this Dutch victim and, of course, to all the other victims of this disaster. I think it would be good if the first-term questions were answered in thematic terms again. I shall begin with the questions that have been asked about Russia and Ukraine, including the murder of the liberal politician Nemtsov. This was a sickening execution, which can only be rejected. The day after the murder, I also expressed my disgust at it. Many others have done so, both in Russia and abroad. This was also passed on to Minister Lavrov in the discussion he had with our Foreign Minister in Geneva on 2 March. The Russian authorities have announced an investigation. The international community, including the Netherlands, will follow this research very critically. Reports have come from the media that five suspects have now been apprehended. There are also reports that one suspect, according to his lawyer under pressure of torture, has made a confession. We can't check these messages right now. This is a disturbing signal, though. The Netherlands has for a long time, also in a broader sense, been concerned about the erosion of the rule of law in Russia. It is important that the investigation and trial are fair, transparent and complete. The principals, if any, must also be tried. We are concerned about the atmosphere of intimidation in the Russian Federation surrounding the opposition. It is important that murderers and potential sponsors are tried and that the Russian opposition can do its job in security and freedom. A question has also been asked about the situation around Marioepol. According to our information, there is no major attack on Marioepol at this time. However, there has been an increase in the number of cease-fire violations following the European Council in the last two days. That's worrying. After all, the file is fragile. Yesterday, the Chairman in Office of the OSCE called on the parties to comply with the Minsk agreements. I'd like to join in on that. In recent weeks there has been a positive trend. It needs to be continued. Full and free access for the OSCE is of the utmost importance, especially on the part of the separatists. As is well known, we consider Russia capable of exerting influence on the separatists. That is why it is so important that the sanctions are linked to the implementation of the Minsk agreements. I can confirm that the European Council has expressed its willingness to increase sanctions if necessary. It has now been agreed that sanctions should be rolled over and that a final decision should be taken by the summer, and that they should, in principle, be aligned with the Minsk agreements, which go on until I say it out of my head in mid-December this year. Implementation is foreseen until at least mid-December this year. The broader threat was also asked. The previous question was from Mr Buma. This question comes from Mr Pechtold. It asked about the broader threat posed by the Russian Federation to European security and in particular to the security of the Baltic States. For some time now, even before the Ukraine crisis, we have seen a trend of growing Russian assertiveness towards neighbouring countries. This puts pressure on the European security system It is a serious challenge, but certainly no reason to panic or anything in that direction. NATO is united on robust, reassuring measures for allies. They have been taken in the past period. For example, look at the High Readiness Forces and the Baltic Air Policing, in which the Netherlands has also participated. I have just answered Mr Buma's question on additional sanctions. There are two more questions. The first concerns the Netherlands Bank's investigation which shows that European sanctions against Russia in the Netherlands are not waterproof. There is also the question of trust offices. Last Friday, DNB reported to the media that research has shown that a number of trust offices do not make sufficient work of customer research, i.e. monitoring transactions and the investigation of the origin of assets. The findings of DNB can be found in the Newsletter Trust Offices of March 2015 published today. DNB's intervention in the media has not been communicated in advance with the Ministry, but it does not necessarily need to. The Netherlands has strict legislation, including in the area of sanctions. This legislation is regularly strengthened in line with international agreements and the rules for trust offices have been extended by 1 January this year. Those stricter rules will be evaluated by DNB and Finance at the end of this year. The supervision is also strict. DNB has already stepped up its monitoring of sanctions legislation in recent years. This will remain an important issue in monitoring. The rules that are at stake here are clear: as a financial institution or trust office, you need to know exactly who you are doing business with and what those things involve. It takes an effort to comply precisely with those rules, because DNB rightly sets the bar high. But it's certainly not impossible. This is also reflected in the fact that DNB finds that there are also institutions that comply with the rules. This was a brief response to Mr Klaver's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u112	The latter is a curious argument: fortunately, there are also trust agencies that comply with these rules. I just want to hear from the Prime Minister what he's gonna do about this. This news isn't new. Every year the lack of supervision of the trust offices comes back. What is the Prime Minister going to do to ensure that these rules are complied with?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u113	The report just got out today. We are going to provide a response to that. I very much like to make Mr Klaver's thoughts on this matter mine. It stimulates us to respond well.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u114	Then I'd like to hear when that reaction is coming. I think that a rapid response to this report is very important. This is the kind of sanctions that counts every day. Can the Prime Minister give us an indication?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u115	No, because it just appeared today, but we will do so as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u116	In any case, I would like to say that I expect the cabinet to come forward with a response by mid-April at the latest. Perhaps the Prime Minister could let us know in writing when he expects that response. Then the Chamber will know what it's up to.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u117	The relevant minister I assume is the Minister of Finance or the Minister of Foreign Affairs will send a message to the Chamber as soon as there is more to report.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u118	Yes, Chairman,...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u119	Mr Klaver, I have heard your question. You asked if this could be confirmed in a note to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u120	I answered that question. The relevant minister will do this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u121	I think I am asking this for the third time. The threat to the Danish Navy came from Russia. Does this also apply to the Dutch Navy? A simple "yes" or "no" is enough. If the Prime Minister is unable to answer this question for security reasons, I understand that, but I would like an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u122	No. That's the answer. A question was also asked about the effect of the sanctions. Putin's price for his Ukraine policy is becoming increasingly visible. The sanctions are not the main cause of the Russian economic malaise, but in this difficult time for Russia, the sanctions are more painful than in times when the Russians are going economically ahead. The sanctions are not an end in themselves, but an instrument to move Russia away from its destabilising role. After all, nobody has any interest in fully imploding the Russian economy. However, the pressure on Russia remains essential, especially now that there is a further escalation of the conflict and a constant undermining of Ukraine's territorial integrity and sovereignty by the Russian Federation. For this reason, the sanctions were extended further on 9 February. It is now important to continue to radiate that message in a united and powerful way. That is why I was so pleased with the conclusions of the European Council of 19 and 20 March on this issue. Now I come to Greece. A lot of questions have been asked about this, but I can't really say much about it. Let me keep it simple. On 20 February, the Eurogroup adopted a unanimous decision on Greece. Greece must comply with that decision. That has actually reaffirmed how the whole system of such an aid package works. The Eurogroup was prepared to extend the existing aid programme for a few months and to apply the normal procedure, namely that a country can replace existing measures with other measures, provided that the total of those measures has the same effect in terms of "debt sustainability', "deficit reduction' and so on as the original package. That has to be judged by, let me put it this way, The Institutions Formerly Known As Troika, the troika including the IMF. That was the situation on 20 February. After that, nothing new has happened politically. There has been an informal meeting which, as far as the Netherlands is concerned, was not a decision-making process. The Netherlands has in no way committed itself to this meeting on Thursday evening after the European Council. I also like the outcome of this, because it means that you have to live up to the commitments made by your Minister of Finance in the Eurogroup of 20 February. Then there was another visit by the Greek colleague to Angela Merkel in Berlin yesterday. That is where the Greek colleague was told again: you have to stick to the agreements of 20 February. Neither of these meetings, nor the meeting on Thursday after the first day of the European Council, nor the visit yesterday to Berlin, has produced new facts. If they had already delivered it, the Netherlands would not be committed to it, because they were not meetings in which the Netherlands is involved in any form in a formal sense. However, both meetings ended well because they confirmed that they had to comply with the agreements of 20 February. I have also been asked for my opinion on what would have been agreed yesterday on German payments, also because of the Second World War. It's not my call at all. The German chancellor would have said I am now passing on the message that I have heard from the media that she considers that chapter to be closed. But when I say that, I'm just a messenger of media messages. The Netherlands is not a party to this either. We have also been asked: hasn't time been wasted? Yes, time has been lost since 20 February, because of course the Greeks could have done a great deal to make this package of proposals so that the troika can look at it as well. I said that last week and we are now a few days away. After all, the mini-summit, the informal meeting after the first day of the summit last Thursday, prompted the Greeks to stop the discussion again. After that, the consultation seems to have started again over the last few days. We'll wait and see. Eventually, no money goes to the Greeks until all the conditions are met. In that sense, therefore, I am also relaxed, because we cannot make the Greeks happy against their will. We can only say that we agree to extend the programme; you can use that time to come up with new proposals that must have the effects of the previous proposals. We'll wait and see. These proposals are first examined by the troika parties and not by the Eurogroup. There is a normal assessment, the Greeks must also show how they implement the proposals and then the payments can be made from the remainder of the existing support package. However, it is really up to the Greeks. So we can call the Greeks every time and call them to do something, as I do regularly, but in the end it is up to them. I told him that at the European Council. I did indeed tell him that there are parties in the House of Representatives, but I did not mention them in particular, who, after all sorts of remarks about opening up borders, immediately say: then the Netherlands must come from Schengen. He said again yesterday in Berlin that all these statements were 'we are opening up borders to Syrian refugees and I will let them go to Berlin', of course, which I understood from the media. He also told me that he really is trying to come up with a package of proposals, but it has to be done. It really has to be there, and if it isn't there, there are no payouts. So in that respect it's up to the Greek, I'm just saying in response to the many questions. Let me take a concrete look at whether I have answered all the questions. Mr Pechtold and Mr Buma asked: what is the process now? I've outlined that. That's just carrying out the appointments of February 20th. Mr Bishop said that there is nothing in that report. No, it wasn't, because it wasn't on the agenda either. On the Greek question, "rien" was on the agenda. There's also "rien" money going now. There are also "rien" plans. So they have to come up with these plans first and only then can something happen, to repeat that winged statement from 1789. Mr Segers asked whether time was wasted. I've already answered that question. Yes, time is lost, but that's up to the Greeks themselves. They say they run out of money at some point, so my advice would be: make haste. We discussed the response to threats to open borders last week. In the extreme case, Greece can be temporarily excluded from Schengen, but the Greek Prime Minister has already said that his Minister's statement is not to be taken seriously on this point. Then the position of the IMF. For the IMF, it is part of the troika parties. It will therefore be part of the assessment of what will come out of it. Mr Pechtold asked whether I was satisfied with the outcome of the mini- summit. Yeah, in itself. Again, we were no match. If we were not satisfied, that was not a disaster either, because no decisions were taken to which the Netherlands had to commit, but it was a positive result because everyone said again in that night: stick to the agreements and implement them. This is what I can report on Greece. Perhaps I am sorry for my somewhat laconic attitude, as Mr Pechtold would probably say coaching, but that attitude is somewhat laconic because it is now up to the Greeks. We're willing to help. I also see broad support in Parliament, including for the extension of the programme, but on the condition that Greece abides by the agreements. Then I come to talk about TTIP. Mrs Maij said: we are not going to privatise that completely, are we? No, it's rule of law and not rule of law, if I can sum it up like that. I therefore agree with Mrs Maij on that point. There must be good guarantees. This is a type of conflict between investors and states. Then there is the question of transparency and committed dialogue. Of course, a lot has already happened on this issue in consultation with civil society, small and medium-sized enterprises, consumers and other stakeholders. The cabinet therefore welcomes Commissioner Malmström's proposal. It is taking this issue forward. 54 negotiating documents have now been published, including a number of substantive negotiating documents for the first time. We welcome this because it also allows for a concrete and factual debate with all kinds of social actors. We are already consulting widely, and that is only going to be more. For example, consultations with civil society, industry and trade unions have taken place since the start of the negotiations. Furthermore, I can say that Lilianne Ploumen, the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation, and I talk about it regularly and that she is also regularly looking for the public debate on this issue. For example, she has already entered into the debate in De Balie and is taking part in a TTIP debate in Pakhuis de Zwijger on Thursday; nomen est omen. I come to the Stability and Growth Pact and the field of budgetary discipline. Mr Van 't Wout has asked a question about this. However, I see that Mr Klaver has another question on the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u123	Yeah, sorry, I thought it was gonna be about TTIP a lot longer. I would have asked when we could expect a letter from the cabinet, and the Prime Minister would have needed some back-up with his officials, indicating how the results of this European Council will be implemented. The Prime Minister said we're gonna have that conversation in the next few days. The answer I get from him now is: we all did this. I would like to hear what the government's strategy is to engage in this discussion with society in the near future.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u124	The good news is that that letter isn't necessary. After all, we are doing much more than I already knew. I just mentioned all that. That's what we're gonna do. That's the answer. I don't think I have to send a letter about that. I'd say rejoice, good news! We shall begin this debate. We do so widely in society. We don't want TTIP. It is quite important to launch a campaign, but we want to have the content of the discussion. It has to be a real dialogue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u125	I know the Prime Minister is happy very quickly and thinks things are fantastic, but I don't think this is fantastic at all. I don't want to count my blessings for this at all. The fact that the Foreign Trade Minister will be at a Counter-Light Meet Up on Thursday or that she has had a debate in De Balie does not sound to me like a strategy for how the cabinet will engage in the conversation and communicate with society about TTIP. That sounds like the normal agenda she has to run as a minister. So my question is still topical. What's the Cabinet gonna do? That is not something I am making up, but it is just what is in the letter on the outcome of the European summit. It says, "We're going to have a conversation with society." Then you cannot come up with: our minister is already doing so well; she is already going to two debates. What's the Cabinet gonna do? What's the strategy? What does it look like for the next few months until there's an outcome? What will happen once the agreement is on the table? I really do not think it is too much to ask the Prime Minister to clarify this. He doesn't get away with saying: we're doing so much already, rejoice!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u126	I'll give you a complete answer, now, without letters. After all, we have fewer and fewer officials, so if a letter is not needed, I would rather answer the question here, because then the answer is immediately in the Acts. I mentioned a few debates. Mr Klaver says, as a good debater, that he does not think that these debates are enough and that there should be more. There's a lot more. Minister Ploumen is in the process of consulting. They have been running since the start of the negotiations. She conducts these consultations with all kinds of social actors. Mr Van 't Wout expressed the hope that this would not only be done with trade unions and civil society. That's right. The balance in the coalition can also be seen here. Yeah, they're talking to the unions. Yes, there is talk with civil society. In addition, there is also talk with business. In particular, the Minister has many contacts with small and medium-sized enterprises. The 54 negotiating documents that have now been published are also very instrumental and helpful. We will continue to do so in the near future. That's the content of the letter I don't have to send anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u127	The Prime Minister is an even better debater than I am, because...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u128	I bow to you, Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u129	He's just repeating the answer he's given four times. Usually he gets away with it, but not now, as far as I'm concerned. In fact, I insist that the Chamber receive a letter on this matter. Which civil society organisations have been spoken to? Which organisations will be spoken to in the near future? That's what I'd like to know. In my contribution, I indicated that many of my fellow Members agreed that this should not be a conversation with only civil society, but that this should be a conversation with all the citizens of the Netherlands. In what way does that take shape? I really believe that the cabinet is sending a letter on this matter to the Chamber, in which it makes its strategy clear. How does the cabinet implement last week's Council conclusions?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u130	It will then be a letter to which I would add a copy of this part of the Acts, namely the short-term report, which is so excellently written here by the staff. I mentioned it all. I have mentioned all these civil society players: small and medium-sized enterprises, business in the broad sense, trade unions, civil society. I mentioned the debates that Minister Ploumen is holding. She's gonna go through with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u131	Mr Klaver asks not only what, but also how. That's the port of his question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u132	You know what I'm gonna do? I'm in a mild mood. I will understand myself with the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation. At least, I myself will be travelling to China tonight, but I will ask whether they want to do so and whether they want to see whether, in addition to my very detailed answer, there is any more to report. That leads to a letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u133	It's about how.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u134	It's about the how, the what and the why.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u135	I think it's clear enough now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u136	Sure. Thank you for that. I welcome the Prime Minister's mild temper. I would like to receive that letter before the next European Council.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u137	That's in June, so it's gonna work. The room gets it sooner. I was working on that force field around the Stability and Growth Pact. That force field is wide. There are Member States that are a little more flexible and that emphasise flexibility. The Netherlands is part of the group of Member States which, as precise ones, stress the need for strict compliance with the Pact. However, the Commission is primarily responsible for interpreting the Stability and Growth Pact. I do not miss a European Council to stress the importance of this strict compliance in the sitting and behind the scenes. The SGP is, in my absolute opinion, the anchor of confidence. It is crucial for Europe's credibility. Those in Europe who point to integrative forces often talk about the market. I have said before that I am also very much in favour of that market, but that market is far from perfect. The only integrative force that exists now is the euro. And the strength of the euro is directly linked to strict compliance with the Stability and Growth Pact. Then, of course, the question about France comes up. Minister for Finance Jeroen Dijsselbloem has updated the Chamber on this in detail in the Ecofin AO of two weeks ago. I think he has also really convinced the Chamber that it is really a lot stronger than it seemed initially from press releases. France has a lot to do. Over the next few years, we are really talking about tens of billions of euros that need to be turned over. France must make concrete the structural reforms it is going to implement. So I agree with the earlier words of Dijsselbloem. I do not share the view that France "gets away with it." I regret, however, that it is still necessary not to let France get away with it. You wish France had taken the necessary measures. So much for my comments on the force field and the situation around France. I come to Mr Pechtold's question on migration. Is this subject on the agenda for the European Council? Yeah, that's what happens. It was also discussed at the last European Council. It was discussed at that time about necessary measures in the framework of border surveillance, about tackling root causes, about tackling trafficking in human beings. We are now awaiting the broad migration agenda, which will be presented in May. We shall then be able to discuss it again. The cabinet will certainly come up with a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u138	The current situation in the Netherlands also requires the Prime Minister to clarify what the Dutch commitment is. During the settlement I asked if the Prime Minister could say in one sentence whether the policy of the cabinet has changed. He just said it hasn't changed. I have tried to expose that linguistically, in the sense that it can still be changed. I think it is important to know whether the Dutch Government intends to change the policy on European asylum policy and the Dutch contribution to it. Because that is again important in order to be able to control what we are going to do in Europe as a parliament. So it is not only a question of whether it has changed, but also whether the cabinet intends to change it over the next two years.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u139	If Mr Pechtold refers to the proposals of the largest party in this Chamber, the VVD, then I remind him of my reaction that the implementation of these proposals would be contrary to the coalition agreement. I do regard them as an important contribution to the debate. I welcome that, too. I hope that several political parties will come forward with proposals. That's good for the debate. Does the coalition agreement leave room to raise the VVD's proposals to government policy? No. I have already said this in the brief debate on the matter. So it is not a cabinet policy. Are you going to change migration policy in the future? There is no doubt that we will continue to respond to current events. But if Mr Pechtold specifically refers to the plan presented yesterday by the People's Party for Freedom and Democracy, I say: that is not a cabinet policy and does not fit in with the coalition agreement if I look at it through the hairs of the eye.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u140	That wording also leaves a small space. The coalition agreement has changed over the last two years. Parts have been executed, parts have been deleted, parts have been modified. My question is also important for the European input, and that is why I want to discuss this issue here too. The Chamber will also discuss it separately. Does the cabinet intend to change the coalition agreement on this point? The Prime Minister may say that it does not fit in now, but it could be his ambition or the ambition of the Cabinet to change that over the next two years. I think it is important, because European countries will have looked at what is happening in the Netherlands. I'd like to know if there's any plans. I want to know whether the coalition agreement remains unchanged or not until the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u141	I don't know. The VVD plans do not give rise to any change in the coalition agreement. The PvdA also said she doesn't think it's possible. That was not the purpose of the VVD either. The aim of the VVD has been to come up with a number of proposals for a pressing social problem, as is often the case in the Chamber. The aim was to discuss this in the Chamber. But if you ask me in a political sense whether this leads to a change in the coalition agreement, my assessment is that this is not the case. Is it cabinet policy? No, because the coalition agreement would be against that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u142	The VVD presents with a lot of bombabre an asylum piece and the Prime Minister hides behind the coalition agreement. Of course, the government agreement will not solve the asylum crisis! Wipe that coalition agreement off the table, clear the PvdA preferably and continue with people who do have common sense. That's how you solve the asylum problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u143	Like Mr Fritsma's party running away when it gets exciting? I don't know if that's the answer. This cabinet has a restrictive and fair asylum policy aimed at providing access to the Netherlands only to people who actually meet the criteria. That's what we're gonna do. We've taken all kinds of measures. It is also important to maintain support in Dutch society. In addition, I think it is very good that political parties do not stop thinking and continue to think outside the framework of the government agreement about solving major social issues. I note that my party has been in the news in the last two days and has been given full attention to its proposals. I challenge other parties to come up with proposals if they do not support those of the VVD. If, as foreman of the coalition, I am asked politically whether the proposals fit into the coalition agreement, I say that it is not the case. I have just said that to Mr Pechtold.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u144	I think this is a little sad. If the Prime Minister considers the influx of asylum seekers to be problematic, then action must be taken. In that case, you have to say goodbye to the government agreement and get rid of the PvdA, otherwise you will abandon the Dutch citizen, while each day he has to pay the price of the asylum influx and the continuing mass immigration. The Prime Minister abandons the Dutchman, hides behind the coalition agreement and continues with the PvdA. Too bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u145	It gets a bit like a record with a tap in it. I refer briefly to the previous answer. I'm coming to the deal on the gas contracts. There are two more questions I have to answer from Mr Van Bommel and Mr Van 't Wout. Mr Van Bommel asked what exactly was agreed on the review of gas contracts under EU law. First of all, I must tell you that the Commission has yet to come forward with detailed proposals. We are talking about a first paper from the Commission which is being discussed in all kinds of professional councils, but the detailed proposals have yet to come. So no appointments have been made yet. However, the conclusions of the European Council of 19 March call for all gas contracts with third countries to comply with EU law. It is particularly important to increase transparency and ensure compatibility with the provisions on energy security. It has also been said that the confidentiality of business sensitive information should be guaranteed in the case of contracts between commercial parties. In drawing up concrete proposals, the Cabinet will make every effort to define the criteria for scrutiny as precisely as possible. As a result, Mr Van Bommel asked about the ambitions of the President of the European Parliament. I have already said something about this in our short exchange in the first term, or actually zero term, right after my statement. Maybe I can add a few more things. For example, an integrated energy market and an integrated energy policy mean that electricity networks and gas pipelines from different Member States are well aligned, that market rules are well aligned and that subsidies do not distort the market, and that the European Union speaks with one voice about external energy policy. Think of the negotiations conducted by former Commissioner Öttinger with Russia and Ukraine. In my view, this goes hand in hand with national powers, for example in the field of the energy mix. Finally, Mr Van 't Wout's question on the internal energy market. How does that go, including those who support it? At the moment, we see a multitude of Member States on the side of the Netherlands as regards the importance that is attached to the internal energy market, but also to the implementation of the third package. I think that's good news. We are working closely with a number of countries, particularly Finland, Denmark and the United Kingdom. We are taking action in several areas to make that market a success. The conclusions call for more emphasis on the implementation of existing internal market legislation. So you are talking, among other things, about the third energy package, but also about its enforcement by the Commission. The Commission will present a proposal for a new market design, which will move the internal energy market forward. The Netherlands itself will continue regional cooperation in order to further deepen the internal market. So much for the playing field and the various supporters that the Netherlands has. In general, last week the European Council also found that there is a high degree of convergence of views on these issues. Then I come to the motions that have been tabled, first of all the Klever motion in part No. 962 over TTIP. I don't recommend that motion. The referendum law excludes the adoption of international conventions, at least the laws of approval in support of international conventions. That was decided by a majority of the Chamber. So it is simply not possible. I reject that motion because the request would be counter-emptive and Mr Klaver would not like it. Mr Buma has the motion in part No. 963 on the whole asylum policy. What he outlined here is partly existing policy: strengthening external borders, strengthening reception in the region and resettlement. A broad migration agenda is currently being developed in the European Union. I would actually like to suggest that this motion be retabled in the debate on that broader migration package, in which the cabinet also comes up with a view on that broader migration package. I think that's much better. By the way, of course, I appreciate the tendency in parts of the Chamber to make me more and more powerful. I'm not entirely disgusting with that notion, but I don't think it's wise. The strength of the Dutch political system is that the Prime Minister is coordinating and has two matters directly in the portfolio, namely the National Information Service and the Royal House, and then only for General Affairs and not on the more specific matters, because there is the ministerial responsibility of the trade ministers. The tendency to place ICT coordination or in this case the entire coordination of foreign policy with the Prime Minister would lead to a further increase in that person's power. That would be very sensible with the current occupation of the position, but you never know who will be there in the future, so I wouldn't want to. I would keep the system as it is and I would leave this type of implementation with the trade ministers. That has really only to do with the last request in the motion. Once again, it is a motion with a lot of ripe and green mixed up. I think it would be wise to look again at this in the light of the cabinet response to the Commission's proposals which are still to be published. Right now, I'm deceiving the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u146	In itself, I find the Prime Minister's rather mild reactions very pleasurable. He calls it ripe and green mixed up and he says, "We're doing it here and there," but it's exactly the note of the VVD, contained in the proposals that were in it. Apparently, the Prime Minister just told Mr Pechtold that it was all in breach of the coalition agreement, but now he says: we are actually doing it, the only question is whether I should carry it out myself. If the Prime Minister here says that the measures can be taken on their own, he cannot insist that they are in breach of the coalition agreement. I want to hold on to that. I am quite prepared to talk about what the Prime Minister himself should do and what the Secretary of State can do. My position is that the Prime Minister does indeed have the leading role in the Dutch Presidency of Europe. How can he just say to Mr Pechtold that it is contrary to the coalition agreement when he says: ripe and green, and we are already doing it? Secondly, I understand that he says that he is not going to coordinate everything, but as far as the Presidency is concerned, he certainly does.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u147	It would be strange if Mr Buma were to table a motion here with the support of Mr Pechtold, which gives a precise implementation of the plan tabled by my party. I would like to ask Mr Pechtold again for an explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u148	But you are giving answers in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u149	That in itself is the special thing about the plan. The plan concludes that the borders are closing, on the basis of these measures, which do not close the borders at all. The Prime Minister has therefore determined in itself the VVD's note rather sharply. But if he then says that the measures can be implemented and are not contrary to the coalition agreement, I think it is so important that I am quite prepared to get the support of the cabinet to amend that last sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u150	That last sentence is not the most important stone of offence, and of course Mr Buma has felt this with his fine political feeling for a long time. In fact, I welcome that sentence. I just don't think he's wise from the uncertainty about who's going to be in my position in the future. As far as the content of the motion is concerned, I refer to the fact that the Commission is presenting a whole package of proposals. Mr Buma has found a nice bridge or a trick to explain that the sum of all the measures in my party's note will not lead to the effects that my party provides. You can find all kinds of things; I'm no commentator of notes, but I just feel that the VVD feels differently about it. This seems to me to be something you should discuss in the two debates that have been announced here on that note; Mr Van 't Wout mentioned them already. It is nice that a VVD note leads to so much attention in this Chamber, which I, as a VVDer, applaud on its own, just a little bit apart from the content. I think that conclusion is really too short. All this in summary, I advise against the motion. Please include these issues in the debate on the government response to the Commission proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u151	Finally, Mr Buma.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u152	I am very much looking, because the hot potato first went to Mr Azmani and the Prime Minister now sends it back to the next debate. The fact remains that the Prime Minister is apparently surprised that what he said is exactly the note of the VVD, namely partly existing policy and partly something that can simply be done. Which brings me to the following. I am prepared to maintain the final sentence, but a motion is either contrary to the coalition agreement or not. I am therefore prepared to hold her until the next debate, but I would like the Prime Minister to state in writing what exactly is in conflict with the coalition agreement and what is not. We shall then put the motion to the vote after that debate, possibly with an amended last sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u153	No, it's not gonna work that way, I'm afraid. I also appreciate the basic constructive attitude shown by Mr Buma here. I hope that in the coming months it will be felt and noticed on other dossiers as well. In particular, on this subject, it is really my tendency to advise the Chamber not to adopt this motion, but to re-examine this issue when the Commission's proposals are on the table and a cabinet response has been given to it. Furthermore, in Mr Buma's words, there are a lot of conclusions on my party's proposal on migration policy which I, as Prime Minister, find difficult to refute here, because it brings me completely into a party political role. Outside of election time, that's complicated. I suspect, however, that my party's views are quite different from those of Mr Buma.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u154	We will continue to talk about this in the debate this week, Mr Buma. I give the floor to the Prime Minister for the continuation of his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u155	The motion-Segers c.s., in part No. 964, is policy support. I'll leave the verdict to the Chamber. Finally, I come to the Fritsma c.s. motion, in part No. 965. This motion by all kinds of members of the PVV Group I would advise against, with reference to the relevant parts of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u156	I have one more thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u157	No, Mr. Buma. I can tell you that next Thursday evening we are going to talk about the subject of the motion. I have already allowed you four questions on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u158	But that wasn't so crazy considering the Prime Minister's response to my questions. Can I make one more comment?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u159	Because you look at me so beggingly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u160	In order to establish the debate, I think it is important for the Prime Minister to note that the motion as such is not contrary to the coalition agreement, but at most he says: well, wait until May. I think that is important for the Chamber and also for the coalition, which is bound by a coalition agreement, to establish.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u161	No, I didn't say that. I said that the motion contains a number of dictata, ripe and green. Some of that dictata is already happening. Mr Buma's conclusion is therefore politically too short. I can't make it mine.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u162	The Prime Minister cannot run away from the fact that a government party on Sunday leaves quite a balloon on which the country is divided. We know that of the VVD and the Prime Minister is also political leader of that party. We are talking about European asylum policy, and I therefore believe that there is a responsibility for the Prime Minister to clarify this 'ripe and green' for next Thursday's debate. Otherwise, I'll know exactly how it's going. Then we are all in a very broad discussion again. I have just received an answer: what the VVD wants cannot, because that is contrary to the coalition agreement. Buma took all the phrases out of the VVD proposal and put them exactly in a motion. We are told of this: it is ripe and green and we are already doing most of it. It can't be. It's two-and-a-half. I would therefore like to have, before the debate on Thursday evening, precisely flagged what is contrary to the coalition agreement and what is apparently already happening. It can't be both true.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u163	I'm not gonna make that commitment. It's a piece of a party I'm a member of. I am proud that this is a party that dares to come up with firm proposals that produce a lot of social debate and which then leads to conclusions from Mr Buma, and apparently Mr Pechtold, in relation to whether the main points of view in the note are sufficiently supported by the measures below. There is a difference of opinion. That seems to me to be something that can be discussed with the relevant rulers on Tuesday or Thursday when the debate is taking place. Moreover, the rulers will play a cautious role in that debate. In particular, it will be a debate between political groups because the cabinet has already found that this is a useful contribution to the discussion, that as foreman of my party I am proud that my party is bringing forward proposals of this kind, but at the same time I have to note that the main proposals do not fit in with the government agreement. I have said this a few times to Mr Pechtold. I think it is very good that on these major social issues, which will also come from my party more often, proposals are being put forward which may not fit directly into the current coalition agreement, but are needed to give the social debate a boost, a step further. I am proud to be a member of such a party and I would like to invite all the other parties to have the same type of discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u164	Well, Mr. President, I'm starting to get a little bit of that populism. What does the VVD do? It's gonna be $1,000, but you're not gonna get it. That misleads voters at the ballot box. What does the VVD do? That puts the Prime Minister in the debate before the provincial elections, and he then says: drop bombs on them because it's better that they die than they come back. Then there is a lot of fuss every time in the house, but no solution at all. No, the Netherlands is becoming divided. That is not the role of the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister does indeed have a very limited function, he himself indicates: primus inter pares. We ask him not to respond to a VVD report, but to a motion. If the Prime Minister first says to me 'it is contrary to the coalition agreement' and then on the same texts, contained in a motion, says 'it is ripe and green and most of it is happening', then the expensive duty rests on the Prime Minister to make a distinction by Thursday, per position in the motion, which is a coalition agreement, which is contrary and what can and cannot and can not be done. Otherwise, it's not a social discussion at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u165	You asked the question. I now give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u166	I repeat the previous answer: I am not going to do that. Mr Pechtold tried to draw the cabinet into the political debate. I have drawn precisely the limits and said that this is not in line with the government agreement and this is not a cabinet policy. He then tries, by way of a detour, to make the cabinet appreciate, but we are not political commentators. The members of the cabinet are not political commentators. This is a debate that must take place here in the Chamber. Asking how I look at this report as leader of my party, I am proud that my party is coming up with firm proposals. This will happen more often, because there are major social issues to be resolved that need to be discussed further, both socially and politically. So I must announce: this is not the last proposal of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u167	This can't be happening. A Prime Minister who claims to be proud that his political party does so and announces that that political party will do so more often. Apparently, the lines are very short and I assume so too, and the Prime Minister was not surprised on Sunday. Then the point here is no longer as a proposal from the VVD, but there is a motion. On that motion, the Prime Minister responds: mature and green and half are already happening. We ask the Prime Minister to indicate for the debate which of those five or six points Buma has put there with others are ripe and green. Then we know what we're talking about. What's ripe, what's green? That's a perfectly normal question. I hope that the Prime Minister, who is already on a one-legged plane to China, will not need an arrangement of work tomorrow to comply with the obligation to provide information. He gave rise to this himself. He said it's ripe and green. Then he should have refrained from doing so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u168	I refer to the previous answer. I think it's a repeat of moves. I'm not prepared to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u169	Then we'll go on for a while. Then the Prime Minister can simply say again that he refers to the previous answer, but I find that completely inadequate. I didn't ask any questions on this point. I thought the Prime Minister was right for a long time. This is a position of a government group and it can be done. However, the Prime Minister himself has addressed this by talking about mature and greenery by saying that some things are already happening and that some things are conflicting. The Prime Minister is the reason for this ambiguity. Then it is also up to the Prime Minister to remove that ambiguity. The request for a letter to be sent for Thursday's debate is therefore only reasonable and fits within the obligation of information which the cabinet has towards the Chamber to clarify where the cabinet is at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u170	What is happening here is that in his motion Mr Buma mentions a number of measures which he draws from the note of a large political party in this Chamber. Of course, in the VVD note there are all kinds of things that are already happening in part, but the big hang point is not in it. Mr Buma says that you do not reach that point on the basis of all these measures. That is the political debate to be held in this Chamber. That is why I object to the cabinet being drawn into a commentator's position on where matters are or are not absolved by the coalition agreement. I say that many of these proposals in the note are partly existing cabinet policy, but of course they are not the starting point. The jumping point is how far you will end up closing Europe's borders for future asylum seekers. That's the point of discussion. Mr Buma says that you will never achieve that with these measures. I find it extremely unfair to drag the cabinet into that discussion, because it will then become part of a discussion that should be held here in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u171	What is unfair is that the Prime Minister says that the jumping point is elsewhere. This Chamber determines exactly where the jumping point lies in this discussion. The Prime Minister has given rise to this by saying that some matters in the motion are already happening and some things are in breach of the coalition agreement. The House is asking for clarification on this matter. It's not about a note from the VVD anymore. This is about a motion that is not recommended, but about which the Prime Minister makes statements: some things can, some things cannot. This is a matter for clarification. I think the Minister is too easy to get rid of by saying that there is no jumping point. Prime Minister, that is exactly where the jumping point lies, and we want clarity on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u172	With all due respect, Mr. Klaver doesn't decide that. In my view, the coalition itself determines where proposals from coalition parties create a problem with the implementation of the coalition agreement. The VVD says that you must close the borders for future asylum seekers from outside Europe. I note that this point is contrary to the coalition agreement and is therefore not part of the cabinet policy, but a contribution to the public debate. We are having this discussion here, because Mr Buma says that the sum of the measures mentioned in the note is right that some of those things are just standing in the cabinet policy that does not lead to the outcome desired by the VVD. You must have that debate among yourselves. You cannot ask the Cabinet to give an appreciation of whether or not that is contrary to the government agreement. If the question were where the problem with the coalition agreement lies, the answer is: that is in the statement in the letter referring directly to the closing of the European external borders. That's where the problem is. If that is at the heart of your question, I have answered it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u173	The Prime Minister speaks directly to me: Mr Klaver does not decide what it is about. That's right. Mr Klaver is only a small cog in this whole. It's up to the Chamber. The Chamber is asking for that information. One of the best debaters in the Netherlands might now have to use less debate tricks by quickly bouncing the ball at me and saying that I am not about that. The Chamber is asking for it. It would therefore be a real credit to the Prime Minister to clarify the point by point, as properly listed in the motion, because he initially created the uncertainty.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u174	I'm really fighting that. I have said that Mr Buma's motion contains matters which are part of the cabinet policy. I also said that a discussion on such a motion would be much more useful in dealing with the cabinet's response to a Commission proposal on migration which is still to be published. This proposal will come in May and then a reaction from the cabinet. I think it is my job in the debate to give an opinion on the motion. On that basis, I have advised against the motion. Mr Buma then says: wait a minute, I mention a number of measures from that note and the Prime Minister says: some of them are government policy, mature and green, etc. But the tricky thing is that the sum of those measures does not lead to the conclusion the VVD wants. I would say that seems to me to be a matter for the debate here. The VVD will undoubtedly have a different view on this. The key point of the VVD's note is not in all these concrete measures, but in the core of the VVD's view that you should close the European external borders for asylum seekers from outside the European Union. So if we are asked where exactly the abrasive point with the coalition agreement is, it is there. So there are two discussions going on here. First of all, on the question of where the coalition agreement is or is not. Secondly, on how to appreciate the various measures. I said what I said about this: it is ripe and it is green.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u175	I remain close to my own group, the Christian Union Group. Mr Buma came to us before the debate with the motion to ask whether we would like to co-sign it. There are some measures that appeal to us, but also some about which we are behind our ears or what we are wondering about. So we did not co-sign the motion. The Prime Minister is now saying: move the motion to Thursday's debate and then discuss it. It is not too much to ask, then, in the brief summaries of the Prime Minister saying that it is ripe and green, to divide it very neatly and to indicate what can and cannot be done and what is and what is not in standing policy. That would help our group to reach a final verdict on this motion. This is independent of whether the purpose of the VVD note is achieved or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u176	I think that's another request. Mr Segers then asks for a response per indent. I can almost literally do that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u177	That was the request we were discussing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u178	That was the request, but let me repeat...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u179	Well, no, Mr Buma, I see you now, for the fifth time. You said it was the last time. We ask the Prime Minister whether he can respond in writing by means of an indent before the debate on Thursday evening.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u180	You are asking me to respond to the question of whether or not it is a stand-alone policy. The House will then receive a letter from me stating by indent whether or not it is a policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u181	Yeah, that's the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u182	You will receive that letter from me; I can send it. If that's it, we'll agree soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u183	So that's a commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u184	The Prime Minister thinks that this is the case, but the question is whether it is ripe and green and whether it is possibly contrary to the coalition agreement. Why is that so important? The Prime Minister's talking about the note. I am tabling this motion because I believe that, if it is not in breach of the coalition agreement, things can actually be carried out. And I'm sorry, I'm gonna tell the Prime Minister, it's not a debate club here. This is about the Prime Minister and his cabinet that has to do something. That's why I take it seriously. A question for a letter that is answered with "no," I have never experienced in ten years.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u185	But I just heard that the Prime Minister promised to send that letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u186	If the Chamber wishes to know per indent whether it is a government policy or not, the Chamber will receive that letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u187	And if it's in violation of the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u188	No, I can't do that. It's complicated. I can't. That really is a matter for the debate in the Chamber. Besides, I'm not the only owner of the coalition agreement. The coalition agreement is the property of the political groups in the Chamber. This really seems to me to be something for the debate, and that is something the Chamber should discuss here on Thursday.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u189	But how can the Prime Minister...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u190	Mr. Buma.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u191	What I can see is that the chairman of the VVD group, also in the media yesterday, said that he realises that this note on parts is contrary to the coalition agreement. Nor was it intended to raise this note tomorrow to cabinet policy. I think he was right about that. He can do that, he's one of the two authors, one of the two owners, as foreman of the group. Mr Buma cannot ask the cabinet to make that analysis. What I can do is explain by indent whether it is standing or non-standing cabinet policy. That note's gonna get the room.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u192	The Prime Minister has just made a commitment, at the request of Mr Buma.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u193	Yeah, and I'm not gonna...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u194	No, I'm just looking at Mr Segers. I hope that we will go to a conclusion so that we can continue on this next Thursday. But you still have a point, don't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u195	The question of whether it's standing policy is one. But it is also a question of whether it fits in with the contours of government policy. It could also be a new policy. It does not just have to be a standing policy; it could also be a new policy that fits within the contours of the agreed agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u196	I can't do that. The coalition agreement is the property of the two political groups. The House really needs to discuss that in the debate on Thursday. I have here in a political sense stated earlier in the debate on Mr Pechtold's question whether this far-reaching position of the VVD is practicable in the current coalition agreement that this is not the case, also hearing the statements of the group chairman on this matter. I think he made a good assessment. But it's over. What the Chamber can ask me is to say by measure whether it is standing policy or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u197	I see you all standing up. There is now a commitment. We can discuss for another hour. It's possible. That could be good.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u198	Yes. I've got time, you know. The plane's not going yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u199	That's not gonna work for a while?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u200	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u201	The other option would be for us to do another term in the Chamber and put forward a motion on this matter. Then it is also clear who is asking in the Chamber. I'm just trying to come up with a constructive solution in the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u202	Very briefly, Mr. Chairman. However, I would like to say that the closure of the European external borders, which has been discussed, is not acceptable to the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u203	Exactly, and in violation of the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u204	It's been noted now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u205	In my opinion, a letter was requested this afternoon in the course of Thursday's debate, which included an appreciation of the VVD's proposals by the cabinet. That debate can be just fine with that letter on Thursday.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u206	An additional commitment has been made in response to this motion...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u207	And that involves the operative part of the CDA's motion, with what I said: whether or not in conflict with it. That will be an attachment to the letter. That's how I imagine it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u208	Finally, Mr Buma.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u209	It's too bad it's so hard. The Prime Minister himself started by saying that it is contrary to the coalition agreement and later he says that he is not about it. I will go to the President's proposal, namely an additional deadline and a motion for a resolution. The point is that this is essentially an arrangement of work in which I ask for a letter. I don't care about the shape. In the end, I would like a motion, although that is a bit strange, or an arrangement of work in which we can ask for a letter with...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u210	Mr Buma, I note that the commitment has been made to look at whether it is being done or not, that the debate is Thursday and that we are voting on these motions next Tuesday. So there is plenty of room for further discussion of the points that you have left in the debate that is to come before we proceed to a regular vote. After all, we will not vote on these motions until next week. We can deal very much with letters and regulations, but I think we have a debate on Thursday with six minutes of speaking time per group in which this can be discussed, with each other and with the Prime Minister's commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u211	Your conclusion is that the Prime Minister's commitment is what has been requested. My question is extremely relevant. If there is a conflict with the coalition agreement, I also know that I do not get a majority. However, I think that if it is not contrary to the coalition agreement, parts may be possible. I insist that if the Chamber asks for a letter stating what is contrary to the coalition agreement and what is existing policy, that is a perfectly normal question. I note that the Prime Minister wants a part, namely to indicate what is and what is not existing policy. I can, quite frankly, find out myself. However, the question of what government agreement is and what is not is up to the Prime Minister. He brought that up himself. I want it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u212	Mr Buma, the interesting thing about this point of order is that, on the basis of that letter, you will be able to carry out this wide-ranging debate, including with the coalition partners from the Chamber. Then we don't have to drive each other crazy with letters. Of course it's okay. Then there's the other option. But it's gonna happen this week. It's not something that's been pushed away in time. Two more nights' sleep.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u213	Mr President, I think it is a bit of a strange figure. How often does it not happen that a motion is rejected because it would be contrary to the coalition agreement? Then just a minister, whether that's the prime minister or a minister of trade, says that the motion is in breach of the coalition agreement. Now the Prime Minister states that this does not apply to all points, but some do. Then it is not much to ask at one point for a breakdown of those points, whether or not they contradict the coalition agreement? That gives the author of the motion the opportunity, and perhaps also the parties who wish to support it, to further adapt it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u214	The reason I attach myself to guarding pure relations is that the coalition agreement is not the property of the cabinet. The coalition agreement is the property of the supporting groups, namely the PvdA and the VVD. The chairman of one of these two groups, Mr President, is the group that tabled the proposal, to society, which is being discussed here, said that he realises that it is contrary to the coalition agreement. He can say that, because he's going over it. Of course, in normal motions, the cabinet can make such statements in debates on government policy proposals. It's different here. This is a policy proposal from one of the two coalition parties which does not seek to change coalition policy, but rather to indicate that there is a major social issue that requires a solution and what its contribution to that solution is. In view of the relationship between government and the Chamber, I would find it strange if I were to say more about the operative part of the CDA's motion than whether that operative part is contrary or not to the existing policy of the Cabinet. Now it is said: I also want to know how that relates to the coalition agreement. I believe that next Thursday's debate is the best opportunity to discuss this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u215	If we have to keep it clean, the Prime Minister has to start with that. Not a response to the VVD's report is requested, but a response to a motion. It has never happened before that a minister in trade union K said: I now have a motion in front of me, and for a response I look at the spokesmen of the government groups, because yes, the coalition agreement is theirs. I have never heard a minister say: let me first look at the opinion of the government groups on this motion. This is not about the VVD's plan, but about a motion tabled by Mr Buma. Mr Buma asked where this government policy was and where it was not. That is important for the assessment of that motion. It is important to hear that if you would like to amend the motion and, if so, how you would like to do it. That is also important for my group. On the basis of the answer to Mr Buma's question, we can see what we would like to do with that motion. So this is definitely the role of the Prime Minister. If he were to fly it straight, he would now stop talking about a VVD plan, because that's not what it's about anymore. Apparently, the prime minister's head is still on the VVD's plan. However, this is a motion by Mr Buma, Mr Pechtold, and I believe that another member of the Chamber has signed the motion. We are now talking about this motion. The Chamber is requesting a response from the government to that motion. The Chamber asks whether or not this is contrary to the coalition agreement. If the Prime Minister now claims that he cannot give that response because the coalition groups are talking about the coalition agreement, then I am very curious what advice on motions will look like in the coming period.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u216	I'm just going through a little bit of repetition. I would like to say once again that I am willing to let you know how the various proposals relate to the standing policy of the cabinet. I said what I said about the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u217	The Prime Minister's not gonna do it. We can indeed work with regulations and such things, but there is more going on in the world. Here's what I'm gonna say. If the Prime Minister is now saying that the cabinet is not about the government agreement, and if it is just about standing policy in the letter, then it cannot be that the argument that it is in conformity or not in conformity with the government agreement will be put forward in the course of the debate. If that argument is heard, the Prime Minister can now write it down. So I do not want to accept a letter, but I also want it to be very clear, when this is discussed later, that government agreement or no government agreement in the various measures is not a criterion. Then it can, or else it's just gonna have to be in a letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u218	Yeah, except for one thing. I have also spoken about this because of the public statements made by the chairman of my political party's group and the chairman of one of the two supporting groups of the coalition. It is also my answer to the political question put by Mr Pechtold. He asked, are you guys gonna do this? He was right to ask that question and I saw it coming in the run-up to this debate. I have accepted that I did not specify that he referred to the conclusion of the VVD that European borders should be closed. Mrs Maij of the Labour Party, also in this debate, said that this is not acceptable to the Labour Party. The coalition also found that this was not in line with the coalition agreement. That is what I have answered. I am going to instruct Mr Dijkhoff carefully, following the lines of Mr Buma's last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u219	You mean the Secretary of State for Security and Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u220	Indeed, the Secretary of State for Security and Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u221	This has ended...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u222	... the organisation of work.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-18.u223	...to this debate.
