ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u1	Mr. Chairman. The Labour Party is shocked by reports that the number of legal aid applications for legal aid has more than doubled in three years. This means that the necessary dialogue between parents and the school has become a legal battle. There's gotta be another way. Parents, teachers and the school board all have the best interests with the children, but sometimes differ on what exactly that is. In these differences of opinion too, the best interests of the child must always be at the heart of the matter. It makes sense that involved parents stand up for the best interests of the child. After all, they know the child best. At the same time, it is logical that schools also know their limitations. But in the case of genuine educational partnership, there must be dialogue between these two parties, involving parents in important issues such as bullying, internship, suspension and school advice, so that they are taken seriously as a full partner. Then jurisdiction will take place less quickly and the way to justice will become the ultimate option. Before a lawyer can be taken into consideration, according to the Labour Party, there can be a solution in mediation. Parents need to know how to get to a mediator. In addition, mediation should be available. To what extent will parents be informed of their options in a dispute with school? Is the complaints system sufficient in schools? Do parents know the way to external parties such as educational consultants, so to parties other than lawyers, so that the conversation with the school can be managed again? If not, what will the Secretary of State do to ensure that these opportunities are known to parents?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. I share Mrs Ypma's view that it is a worrying development, as seems to be the case on the basis of these figures, that more and more parents are going to court more and more quickly to fight conflicts at school while there are so many good alternatives. You actually want this kind of thing to be solved based on a good conversation at school. In my view, that requires two things. To begin with, schools must seriously listen to the concerns of parents, who are often justified. In addition, parents shouldn't hire a lawyer at least to get a story at school. The Prime Minister recently said some commendable things about this at the VVD Congress with which I fully agree. There are alternatives when there are conflicts. Mrs Ypma mentioned the educational consultants. I will check whether this possibility is sufficiently known in schools. There are complaints committees in schools. Recently, something has really been done to improve it. The majority of parents are satisfied with the complaints system. We last evaluated it in 2013. However, I will look into this and let it be part of the next evaluation of the complaints system.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u3	It is good that the Secretary of State takes this problem seriously. He also says that schools should listen seriously to what parents think. He will also examine what alternatives there are and, if I listen to him carefully, bring them to the attention of parents so that the legal conflict can be avoided and the child's interest put at the heart of the matter. Finally, I would like to ask the Secretary of State whether he would also like to look at the guidance given to teachers. I went to teacher training myself and there, seriously, I had the class of dealing with difficult parents. What culture do we have in education if you think you have to deal with difficult and difficult parents? The point is that you come together to the best interests of the child and engage in dialogue together. I also ask the State Secretary to inform the House of Representatives about his research into the alternatives and about the extent to which parents are aware of those alternatives and use them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u4	I'll start with that last one, because that's the easiest thing to do. A school is obliged to indicate in the school guide how the complaints system is organised. The inspection will ensure that this is done, because it is a necessity that this is done. It is, of course, up to parents to make sure that they are familiar with it. Educational consultants can act as some kind of mediator. This is already being used regularly in appropriate education, but I can imagine that this can be done in other conflicts. I'll check with school boards to see if this is actively promoted as an alternative to court proceedings. Mrs. Ypma also asked what you can do to keep teachers in their shoes more firmly. For this, training is very important, but we are also working very hard in schools to highlight the importance of pupils and parents. We do that by encouraging schools to give much more openness of business... how do they do it? By increasing the rights of parents. Look at the appropriate education with the duty of care of schools. That is a movement that, I think, appeals very much to both Mrs Ypma and me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u5	Absolutely, that movement appeals to me very much, but it is also about schools really taking parents seriously and seeing them as full educational partners, so that they can make decisions together that are important for the child. This should apply not only to parents of children affected by appropriate education, but also to other parents. The parental involvement in 2015 should go more along with the time and be taken more seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u6	I fully agree with Mrs Ypma.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u7	Thank you for your answers and for coming to the Chamber.
