ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u1	At first I mistakenly said that the issue was the legislative proposal Amendment of the Code of Criminal Procedure in relation to the own contribution of convicted persons to the costs of criminal proceedings and victim care. However, this is tonight's topic. I would like to welcome all those present in the Chamber, in particular the Minister for Security and Justice. Six Members have been present for this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u2	Mr. Chairman. I will reassure you immediately; I am not going to complete those 30 minutes. I signed up for 30 minutes, but it's getting a little shorter. Mr. Chairman. Almost three years ago I received an e-mail from employees of Interhome in the beautiful Weert. This company was taken over; new owner. After some research and conversations here and there in the region, the employees had learned that the new owner had 13 bankruptcies in his name in just two years. That's why the employees sounded the alarm. However, they found no answer to the person who wanted to sell the company to the new owner. The police couldn't do anything either. I quote from the e-mail that I received a little later in 2013: "We are at an end. Although my husband is in the sickness code and has been declared 100% unfit for work by three occupational doctors, Z. hasn't paid him any wages since February. Of course, we went to court with our lawyer to claim the arrears. By default in which Z. is obliged to pay sickness and wages, we have tried to get him to do so. However, he's not responding. Nor on the bailiff and bank account, for his account is empty. Despite several telephone commitments to our lawyer, Z. never made payment. Due to the change in the takeover, the threat posed by the bankruptcy history of Z. and improper governance, my husband has become completely confused. We stand with our backs against the wall. I'm trying to defend my husband's rights with all my might. He can't do this himself right now, so I'll try it for him and for me together. We've been living in a nightmare since we've been dealing with this crook's practice." This is the hard, the nasty, the cold reality that lies behind the bankruptcies of fraudsters. Last summer I delivered the case to the Ministry of Security and Justice. The Ministry has investigated it. How could this case have slipped through RADAR? Weren't there any signals that could be picked up? How can a bankruptcy fraudster in a country such as the Netherlands, a rule of law, be allowed to fail once and for all, e.g. one after the other? It's very good that this has been investigated. It gave a clear picture: it had to be better. How are things with RADAR in the meantime? Is the system to issue beeps when a driver of an e.g. acts suspiciously fully operational in the meantime? Then, for example, it's about someone who's turned one company upside down after another. In the meantime, how many bankruptcy cases have been submitted to, for example, the IRS, the police and the D.A.'s office, including through RADAR? What happened to that? In short, has RADAR been proven to have added value? Is it better to tackle bankruptcy fraud now? In 2011 I made eight proposals to tackle bankruptcy fraud in the book Bedouw bij bankrupt. One of them concerned the administrative ban. I therefore see, if I may say so, one of the legislative proposals that we are discussing today, namely the legislative proposal on the prohibition of civil law, as a good development of one of the proposals in that note. It's a good thing we're dealing with these legislative proposals today. Both proposals have the full support of the SP Group. I do have some criticisms. The Council of State indicated that no provision has yet been made for any additional remuneration for the curator, who is going to play a very important role in imposing the civil administrative ban. The extension of the curator's remuneration is only dealt with in the draft law to strengthen the curator's position, but that bill has not yet been submitted to the Chamber. That worries me. What happens in the meantime? The government says that the curator will have to make small extra costs, but what is small? There is quite a responsibility on the shoulders of curators. They won't be getting anything in return for that for a while. I'm sorry about that. The situation is already problematic when it comes to compensation for curators. We know that even now a number of cases are not picked up by curators. That also sometimes has to do with not getting a fee, however bad it may be. I assume the Minister can confirm that. That's what I like to hear. The SP has also been concerned about the abuse of pre-pack, the so-called flash failures. There are, of course, advantages for companies to be able to make a start. In fact, there is no question of a restart, but they can quickly get back to work after bankruptcy. This will prevent further job losses. It is also possible to ensure that customers or other creditors receive what they are entitled to in a number of cases. This has obvious advantages, but pre-pack can also be abused. In response to these concerns, the note following the report promised that pre-pack abuse would be a basis for imposing a civil administrative ban. I refer to the corresponding legislative proposal Act Continuity Enterprises I, which I have already seen come in. That's very good. However, the government is more reluctant in terms of exorbitant and irresponsible bonuses. A rich reward with a bankruptcy in sight is undesirable, but there are already enough instruments to deal with this, such as the actio pauliana and the massive moderation of bonuses, the minister writes. That doesn't go far enough for me. Self-enrichment, thus filling your pockets, while the future of a company and thus the security of employees, of creditors, of customers and of the government itself who may also be creditor is at stake, directors are unworthy. Drivers hide behind the current laws and regulations and say: it's in my contract, I'm just entitled to it. And that while people lose their jobs and are forced to turn in their wages. In fact, I find it unheard of that we drivers are making the dance. Why should you be allowed to fill your pockets when it is clear to everyone that there is a reasonable chance that the company will fail? A ban on administration, including for those who reward themselves generously, agree or not, while a bankruptcy is imminent, would be very justified, regardless of whether the company fails or not. The Minister asked in the note following the report for ideas for imposing a civil administrative ban outside bankruptcy. Well, this would be a good example, in addition to the abuse of pre-pack. I'd like to get a response to that. According to entrepreneurs, the Public Prosecutor's Office does not impose any criminal-law bans. How is that possible? That's how I ask the Minister. Entrepreneurs also say that the D.A. doesn't do much with fraud signals from curators. I'm asking the Minister if that's true. How are these signals handled? According to the Minister, is there any reason for improvement? We know there's a lot of cuts in the state's attorney's office. My colleague Van Nispen has had many debates on this subject with this and the previous minister. In 2016, the public prosecutor is expected to cut nearly 16 million euros. In total, this will be 114 million in the coming years. How can this be reconciled with the need to deal more and better with cases such as fraud? Following the entry into force of the bill we are discussing today, it will be monitored for two years whether, as the minister's predecessor said so strikingly, the additional resources are needed. In order to tackle fraud properly, it seems to me that you should have the necessary resources in time and not when it is actually too late. Now millions are being taken away first, so that two years later we can see if there is something we need to do again. What happens now: the state budget or, in this case, the fraud approach? The Minister says that it takes longer for criminal law to impose an administrative ban than civil law. I ask him, how much faster? A lawsuit on the actio pauliana and maladministration can take a long time, according to the entrepreneurs even years. How does the Minister see this? Then there is the problem that the bankruptcy cannot be brought to an end before the procedure of a civil administrative ban is completed: first years wait for the decision on the actio paulia and maladministration, and thus on the imposition of a ban on administration. Is that right? In the meantime, creditors are the victims and debts are also incurred. It is also possible, if I understand correctly, for the wrong-doer to continue to do so, if necessary through a new or another legal entity. The Council of State pointed this out, too. Can the Minister respond to this point of criticism? How will this work out in practice? Is there any way to think that this is going faster and yet equally carefully? A person with one-man business or a partner in a company under firm may also be banned from civil law, but he may still set up and direct a one-man business or a vof. I agree that otherwise you might be pushing people towards the social safety net, the assistance. But if we give someone who has been banned the opportunity to start a business again, do we not blame the associated risks on society? I think that's a dilemma. In my view, a person with a civil-law ban is not fit to run a business, whether it is a legal person, a one-man business or a vof. I too would like to prevent people from using the social safety net, but applying to an employer is of course also an option. After all, everyone has to do that. I'd like a response from the Minister. After all, a zzp'er or someone with a one-man case can also cause damage. As far as the SP is concerned, chambers of commerce should be given a greater role in identifying bankruptcy fraud. Employees should be given the power to transmit suspicious signals to the Justice Department, for example by doing and leaving notorious buyers of e.g. with the necessary bankruptcies in their name, as in the example I mentioned at the beginning of my speech. I would like to receive a response from the Minister. Then I come to the criminal part of the legislative proposals that we are discussing today, namely the Law Review of Bankruptcy Fraud. We support this bill, but we do have some criticisms, of course, about the financial resources. Due to the field, broad attention has been asked for this point. As of 1 January 2015, the police's capacity to detect has been increased by 1156 fte, but these FTEs will not all be used to work on fraud. How much of this is earmarked for the FinEC teams? There are further cuts in the National Police. How is this compatible? And what about the D.A.'s office and the FIOD? In fact, sufficient capacity should be available for investigations into drivers who do not comply with their administrative and intelligence obligations. How does the Minister see this? Then an example from practice. I heard from a prosecutor that the FinEC teams from the regions have to fight 12 types of fraud, one of which is bankruptcy fraud, while each year they only have room for two heavy and five medium-sized cases. It is powerless that the approach is inadequate. I'd like a response from the Minister. Bankruptcy fraud must not compete with other matters such as theft and violent crimes. Therefore, bankruptcy fraud cases and financial and economic cases must always be taken up by regional financial and economic teams and not by the police districts. Police districts don't have enough knowledge. For example, in Rotterdam, it has now decided not to let matters be dealt with by the district, but to take them up at regional level. I am considering tabling a motion on this point. I would like a response from the Minister on this point. Next, a comment on the penalty ceiling in Article 344a of the Code of Criminal Law. In my view, deliberately failing to comply with your administrative obligations must be severely punished. You should know that bankruptcy is always possible and you should also be aware of the importance of proper administration. On this point, an amendment from me is in the process of being tabled. I hope that will reach my fellow Members before the end of this sitting. I would like to see the penalty ceiling in Article 344a increased. This brings it into line with the four-year ceiling that can be imposed in other respects. A distinction is also made between, on the one hand, fraudulent natural persons or directors of a legal person and, on the other hand, a third party benefiting from bankruptcy. A maximum prison sentence of six years may be imposed on a natural person or the director of a legal person if he is properly removed from the property before or during the bankruptcy or if one of the creditors is favoured. The third person mentioned, who benefits from bankruptcy, may be sentenced to up to four years in prison for the same offence. The difference is that the third has a lesser responsibility for the ability to tell stories. Thus, the government declares the difference in maximum punishment. I realize it's a lot to lay down the same maximum sentence. I understand the Minister's reasoning, but fraud is fraud, right? After all, creditors are no less disadvantaged than the same offence has been committed. For the disadvantaged, it does not matter whether it was a driver or someone who is not responsible for the property. I would like to comment on this point. Finally. The registration of bankruptcy fraud is inadequate and there is virtually no insight into it, warns the General Court. The General Court states that data such as the number of bankruptcies, the number of reports or declarations of bankruptcy fraud, the number of reports or declarations leading to investigations by the FIOD and the police, the number of uninvestigated notifications and declarations, the number of prosecutions by the district authorities and the Functional Parket, the number of convictions and the number of criminal and administrative prohibitions, can be collected at the regional level of the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office. But does this always happen? It can, but does this mean it doesn't happen yet? If not, my proposal is that this will take place in the future. The General Court indicates that the approach between the regions can then be considered. It is also possible to learn what works best. According to the government, the Public Prosecutor's Office is now working on a fraud monitor to gain a better view of fraud cases that are being dealt with under criminal law. However, that is not what the General Court is proposing. The General Court wants to go beyond that. I'll finish with my final point. In order to gain a better understanding of the total number of fraudulent bankruptcies, it may be realized that the WODC, in consultation with insolvency lawyers and judges-supervisors, is investigating on the basis of the reports of curators to the judge-supervisor on the settlement of bankruptcies. I think that's a good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u3	Mr. Chairman. Mrs. Gesthuizen started with a commitment. I'd like to follow that trend. I would also like to begin with a commitment to the Minister. The CDA Group will support the legislative proposals that are being discussed this afternoon. Of course, we still have some questions and points of attention. I'd like to share it with the Chamber. The starting point is a harder approach to fraud committed prior to or during bankruptcy. Attention to this form of fraud is consistent with some of the seven principles developed by the CDA over the last three years, in particular the principle of a fair economy. We're against the profiteers. Bankruptcy fraud is precisely the opposite of these principles. Prior to or during bankruptcy, creditors are disadvantaged in the distribution of property, often resulting in self-enrichment by those responsible for bankruptcy. The Court of Auditors' investigation into bankruptcy fraud, the results of which were presented last month, is particularly useful for the discussion of these legislative proposals. Today, the CDA Group wants to link some of its findings in concrete terms with the question it has on the two legislative proposals before us, in particular the legislative proposal on the civil-law ban. One concern with regard to both legislative proposals is to what extent the ambitions of this government, Mrs Gesthuizen, said that even if they are in line with the capacity made available to the services concerned. That seems to be a bit of a thread for this cabinet period. There is a great deal of legislation and there is no lack of ambition, but continuous austerity creates problems in the implementation of the work environment. In concrete terms, these legislative proposals encourage the curator, the prosecutor, the FIOD, the detective and the judiciary with new tools to fight bankruptcy fraud more often. Is there enough capacity available for that? Are the various services and organisations sufficiently equipped to take on more things? The Court of Justice has made an assessment of the additional work in the event of a civil administrative ban. That would amount to about 520 extra cases a year. The Minister nuded this in the note following the report. He said there'd probably be less. However, whether there will be fewer or more, whether there will be 100, 250 or 400, does the Minister agree that he should give these services the additional resources to carry out these additional tasks? This year's case law has been reduced to over 11 million. How will the additional workload be monitored, for example as regards the extent to which the public prosecutor is going to make use of the new power to enforce a civil administrative ban? The question of financial cover has also been raised frequently in the preparation of these legislative proposals, but the answer has not yet been to the satisfaction of our group. Not only in the case of the prosecution and the case-law, but also in the case of the liquidators, it is necessary to prevent them from investigating bankruptcy fraud because their costs are not or are hardly covered. After all, these are rather complex and labour-intensive matters. The Minister indicated that he would be in consultation with Minister Kamp and the Chamber of Commerce to review the guarantee scheme for this purpose. What is the state of play at the moment? Does the Minister share the view that a new picture of costs should be somewhat parallel to the legal extension of the curator as a crime-fighting officer, not only as a controller of bankruptcy but also as a crime-fighting officer, and how will the Minister achieve this? The General Court explicitly mentions the issue of capacity, but rightly points to the need for quality growth in tackling bankruptcy fraud. It is, as has been said, quite complex. It's moving all the time. The question is whether the Minister recognizes this need. Can he give a concrete indication of what the quality is? How, for example, is the knowledge of bankruptcy fraud acquired but also secured? Increasing the chances of bankruptcy fraud is very important. It has often been stated in this Chamber that the chances of getting caught are too low, now between 2% and 3%. It is important to consider what measures will have an effect to increase this chance of being caught. Measuring is a thing of the past. Can the Minister indicate which elements of the approach to bankruptcy fraud are measurable in these legislative proposals and whether they will actually be measured? To name but one thing: we now know how many cases above €100,000 are being investigated by the FIOD, but underneath we don't know that. Does the Minister know that and is he going to do something to give the Chamber more insight? I have a few questions about the bill on the civil-law ban. The first question concerns the relationship between the curator and the prosecution. They are both given the opportunity to apply for a civil administrative ban. The Minister stressed in the written reply that they could operate independently of each other and make their own assessment. Nevertheless, the CDA Group asks the Minister to reconsider the coordination, precisely because they can reinforce each other with the proposed legal possibilities. In particular, we ask for attention to be paid to the situation in which the curator will be faced with the choice to do the cases quickly but not to be able to request a civil administrative ban, i.e. to settle. This may be a smart choice under circumstances, especially with a view to the early distribution of property among creditors, but the possibility of a civil-law ban would then be for the curator to table. Is that a good way of doing things? Shouldn't it be en-and? Doesn't this put the curator in a difficult position? If that's the case, shouldn't there be coordination with the D.A.'s office, so that the D.A. could only enforce that administrative ban? Does the Minister share the view of the CDA Group that such a coordination is desirable, because in this way two birds are struck with one stone? There is a rapid settlement by means of a settlement, but it is followed by an administrative ban applied for by the Public Prosecutor's Office. It is precisely this prohibition that is now going to play such an important role. Prevention is better than cure. Interested parties may request the Office to apply for a civil administrative ban. The D.A.'s office isn't obliged to follow that up. Can the Minister confirm that the prosecution will then have to state the reasons why it rejects a possible request? That also seems important if you draw the parallel with Article 12 of the Code of Criminal Procedure: if the officer doesn't want something, you can go to the court to see if the court thinks the Public Prosecutor should do something. That is not possible under this legislation. I do not think that Article 106a of the Bankruptcy Act gives any room for this either. Shouldn't there be an opportunity for the interested party to ask for an opinion on the matter on top of that? The public registration of prohibitions in the Trade Register is important for the enforcement and fairness of trade. This applies not only to citizens and businesses. For example, the Justis department of the Ministry of Security and Justice can provide supervisory information and other public authorities can also use it. Is it true that the way in which the Trade Register can be understood is still somewhat uncertain at the moment and that there is still no clarity about it? This is about how this register is managed: what exactly is visible and who has access to it? However, it is also a question of accessibility. And is it right that the College of Protection can stop personal data from doing this? I would like a response from the Minister. The CDA Group has been rather surprised and annoyed by the consultation of the CBP that has been launched. Perhaps the qualification "arrogant" is still most appropriate here. While other consulted parties, such as the Council for Justice, the Public Prosecutor and the Dutch Association for Justice, have provided useful input, the CBP did not have the need to respond in terms of content. I quote: "In such cases, the CBP threatens to advise on a draft legislative proposal the text of which may deviate from the text as it would go to the Council of Ministers in relevant respects and on which the CBP has no longer issued an opinion. These amendments can then no longer be reviewed by a designated legislative adviser. This leads to an erosion of the legal advisory obligation of the CBP." As far as I'm concerned, this is a missed opportunity for the CBP. You would actually say: you will never have to advise again, because the trajectory goes on and of course there will be changes. The Chamber may also amend it. So in that respect, you can just take responsibility and say what you think. If the situation is changed afterwards, then it is no longer the responsibility of the CPVO. Did the Minister have a conversation with the CBP about this move? How seriously will he be taking any criticisms of the CBP about the inspection? If privacy concerns are raised, should it not be said that you should have come forward with them sooner? That is difficult, because we do attach ourselves to what the CBP thinks. Does the Minister himself have any idea what objections could be raised with regard to consulting the Trade Register? Perhaps the Minister himself can indicate the scope for consulting information. When is it allowed and when is it not? I also have a question about the administrative bans that have now been terminated. Can they also be consulted? In my view, this applies only to the new administrative bans in the new system, but is it not convenient for trade to be able to consult previous administrative bans, so that those involved in trade can consider whether they are doing business or not? Does the Minister see its added value and, if so, is he prepared to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u4	I would just like to respond to what was said about the College's protection of personal data. I have spoken to this college a number of times and they say: we have a problem, because on the one hand we have to check afterwards if something is right and on the other hand we are increasingly being asked to advise on the front; that can bite each other. The fact that this can bite each other is nothing new. The Council of State has been called upon by the European Court of Human Rights on a number of occasions because of the fact that these two things do not work well together. Does Mr Oskam understand that this is a real problem for the College's protection of personal data and that this is not mere arrogance?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u5	I understand the dilemma. This is not only the case with the Council of State and the CBP, but also with the Court of Justice, which gives its opinion. If you are asked for advice because you understand the matter and you eventually have to work with it, then you can come into a difficult package later. Anyway, that advisory function is important. We attach importance to the fact that the CBP as a watchdog gives its opinion for privacy. If it doesn't, I think it's a missed opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u6	Shouldn't we be looking for a solution next time the CBP comes up in the Chamber? Shouldn't we remove that dilemma? I think the College itself has some thoughts on how that could be done. We need to improve structural design and remove the problem rather than blame the College for having a problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u7	I am pleased to think with Mr Recourt about the possibilities of advisory functions in legislation for organisations that will have to work with it later. I believe that it should be extended much more widely and that the Council of Justice and the Council of State should therefore be considered. The CDA Group considers it important that a person with an administrative ban should not be able to continue his questionable activities across borders. The plan is therefore to link national insolvency registers in a European context and that administrative bans, if a Member State so wishes, can be part of that link. Until then, Member States may make use of a new EU regulation allowing for the interconnection of administrative bans. In the note on the report, the Minister has not yet expressed a positive opinion on this. He states that he will consider whether the Netherlands will make use of this. What's with the restraint? Let's get back to the content of the criminal offences. The Minister states that an accumulation of paulian legal acts can be seen in conjunction as deliberate action, which may seriously prejudice creditors. Does he also refer to repeated cases of dubious bankruptcy proceedings? If so, will the prosecution and the curator specifically focus their attention on this type of recidivism? I have another question about the provision of information. The Minister states that a repetitive bankruptcy does not automatically result in a qualification for an administrative ban. However, a good exchange of information between the Chamber of Commerce on the one hand and OM and curator on the other hand is essential if there are grounds for such a ban. What are the criteria on the basis of which the Chamber of Commerce decides to inform the Public Prosecutor and/or the curator in the event of a suspected bankruptcy? I'd like to go back to the bankruptcy fraud and the bill 33994. Can the Minister indicate in which districts the special office hours for bankruptcy fraud will be introduced even more? Can he also comment on the grey area of economically acceptable acts at the border of criminal law? Can the Minister give examples of practices at the time of bankruptcy which are risky, but which are not considered unreasonable in the trade or sectors of our economy? Several criminal cases have shown that under the guise of restructuring operations to save the company, money and capital can be channelled away for their own gain. There is still a great danger lurking there. White-collar crime is inventive in this respect, and the deliberate abandonment of some companies can be beneficial in this respect in order to save the large group, albeit with the result that there are many victims. Can the Minister indicate where this cabinet is drawing the line when it comes to fraudulent acts? I too stay well within time. You're not used to it from me, Mr. Chairman. I see you're freaked out. Can the Minister comment on the other side of the coin when it comes to SMEs, which unfortunately often have to do with invoices that are paid way too late, resulting in liquidity problems? Can the Minister assure us that the increased criminality of these companies does not cause unnecessary problems or suspicions of fraud, which is not the case, because they are in financial difficulties and are actually trying to keep their heads above water?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u8	Mr. Chairman. It concerns legislation on bankruptcy fraud dating back to the nineteenth century, which is more than 100 years ago. For the D66 Group, it is clear that these legislative provisions need to be modernised and simplified, especially when the legal provisions concern fraud. After all, we want to avoid a healthy business environment and damage to consumer confidence and financial damage to parties. The public prosecutor's estimate that bankruptcy damages amount to 1.28 billion a year is astonishingly high. The fight against fraud is therefore rightly a top priority. It is right to look at ways of strengthening this approach. Of course, it would be even better if the figures for cases of fraud were more reliable. With good registration, we can measure the usefulness, necessity and effectiveness of policies. How does the Minister deal with this justified recommendation from the Court of Auditors? Today we are discussing two legislative proposals, the civil-law ban and the revision of the criminalisation of bankruptcy fraud. The D66 Group sees the added value that this can bring, namely a more unambiguous code of conduct and clarity in practice on what is possible and what needs to be done to tackle bankruptcy fraud. Both legislative proposals were accompanied by over 80 pages of advice. That is why, as an opposition party, you could certainly think that there is a great deal wrong with the two legislative proposals. Surprisingly, however, my group can see that in most cases the justified criticism there was has been taken to heart. However, we must always take a critical look at whether it is really necessary to extend the legal instruments, whether it really makes the fight against bankruptcy fraud more effective and whether the proposals are feasible in practice. My group has a few comments and questions to the Minister. We see that the number of cases in the Public Prosecutor's Office has doubled over the last five years, while the public prosecutor's budget is steadily decreasing due to the cuts in this cabinet. Mr Gesthuizen mentioned this as well. How will the present legislative proposals also ensure sufficient capacity in the Public Prosecutor's Office? The number of FTEs for the national police detective capacity will be increased by 1,156 FTEs from 1 January 2015. That's in the explanatory memorandum. This morning, in the context of a consultation on criminal cooperation, we discussed in detail the question of the capacity. I therefore take this opportunity to try to get clear answers. Has this enlargement been completed and what has been the experience so far? Is it sufficient or is there a chance that further enlargement will be needed, given these legislative proposals? The detective capacity is being increased, but the police capacity must not exceed 49,500 FTEs. But the police are already up here. 1,156 fte's must come from the width somewhere. Is capacity being removed elsewhere, so that it can be used for fraud? If that is the case, then of course my group would like to know exactly where these FTEs come from. Or is there going to be a new influx of that particular expertise that we also discussed this morning? This is, of course, particularly about financial and economic expertise. If so, what does that mean for the total operational strength of the police? The capacity required is also determined by the nature and extent of the fraud involving bankruptcies. The Public Prosecutor's Office is now developing a fraud monitor with figures and qualitative information. That is extremely useful information. I'll ask the Minister when that fraud monitor is ready. When will the Chamber be able to see it? Could that monitor mean anything to the public prosecutor's office and the police? My group also agrees with the choice that the new criminal acts of Articles 341, 343 and 344 have chosen that at some point there should be genuine discrimination against creditors. Only an intention of disadvantage that does not actually manifest would go too far. The Minister states that his choice has sufficient preventive effect and that the new penal provisions will not be applied less frequently. However, I would ask the Minister to explain this a little more precisely, because it has left aside the line that creditors' rights do not really need to be reduced. The situation is now tightening up. My group would like to know what practical effect the Minister expects of this. Then I come to the bill for a civil administrative ban. This regulates a number of matters that change the position of the curator or at least broaden it. The curator will be able to apply for a civil administrative ban and he will be given an enhanced fraud alert function. Whether you consider the task broadening to be obvious, as the cabinet suggests, or as a whole new assignment outside the primary task, like several of the consultees, it raises some questions. It is often the curator who encounters the first unfresh trail left by drivers. Why should the curator not be able to send signals to competent authorities which can then bring such a claim? Is this a privatisation of enforcement, I ask the Minister. Is this a hidden cut in the state's attorney's office? If the curator is given a broader role, this also means an additional responsibility for the judge commissioner, who supervises the curator. The curator's policy and, therefore, a request for an administrative ban must be fully reviewed by the judge-supervisor and the court, as the cabinet rightly points out. Are the current possibilities for the judge Commissioner sufficient to be able to oversee the wider task of the curator in the future? How is this monitored? And there's going to be a separate bill that looks at the curator's position, but that bill is not yet before the Chamber. That makes it difficult for us to see the whole thing. So can the Minister go into that a little further? The government considers that the additional costs of imposing an administrative ban may be borne by the estate. This means that the imposition of an administrative ban may be detrimental to the primary interest of creditors in order to claim the outstanding debt as much as possible. Can the government indicate a little more about what the damage could be to a concrete estate? The administrative ban should prevent operators who have committed maladministration from continuing fraudulent practices unhindered by means of all kinds of detours and by means of new legal entities. A simple consultation of the register and the rapid inclusion of prohibitions in the register are therefore very important. How is it ensured that the trade register states as soon as possible that an administrative ban has been imposed? The trade register is an important source and can then be consulted. However, the question is whether this register is sufficiently consulted to prevent a driver from going back to work elsewhere with possible wrong practices. Is a restraining order therefore included in a statement of conduct? And shouldn't that statement of behaviour be asked by default if a commissioner or supervisor wants to join a board of directors or a supervisory board? Is there going to be an administrative ban for supervisors? Supervisors at healthcare institutions, for example, may as well be involved in fraudulent acts leading to bankruptcy. The proposal regulates a closed system with concrete grounds for imposing an administrative ban. My group supports this choice. The administrative ban is a serious means and must therefore have solid ground. It is good that the government has taken over. Finally. Both legislative proposals are part of the Legislative Programme review of bankruptcy law. The two legislative proposals before us are part of the fraud pillar. However, this includes a third, namely the legislative proposal to strengthen the position of the curator. The advisory bodies have already taken note of that third bill, but the Chamber is not yet officially involved. This means that the Chamber has an informal backlog. This is a matter of some concern to us if we are to be able to assess the legislative proposals sufficiently in conjunction with each other. Can the Minister explain how we should see these two legislative proposals in conjunction with the third legislative proposal that is still under consultation? How do the three legislative proposals fit into the entire programme?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u9	Mr. Chairman. Many criminals, book writers and filmmakers have wondered how to commit the perfect crime. Of course, the perfect crime cannot be traced and you cannot be caught or prosecuted for it. I myself was very charmed by something that occurred in an American film. Criminals had invented that no one would notice when your bank accounts were completed in such a way that the figures behind the decimal point were, therefore, fractions of pennies and thus ended up in your own bank account. And if there are enough rounds, millions will come in. Fantastic. It was almost the perfect crime. Unfortunately, in that movie, it happened or is it happy? Wrong, isn't it? That's it for the cheerful note. In the Netherlands, for a long time, bankruptcy fraud was almost the perfect crime. The odds were against 1% and slightly increased to 2% or 3%. But you don't have to be very scared. And that's really unacceptable. The result is that there is great inequality in the approach to justice. The justice system has traditionally been the most popular among people with low levels of education. It's only right that the justice department is behind you and prosecutes you when you commit crimes. However, it is not right that the risk of prosecution is significantly reduced if you have a thick wallet or commit white-collar crime. And then all kinds of means can be used to train your course of justice. The odds of you disappearing behind bars are extremely small. That way, Lady Justitia doesn't wear a blindfold. It is therefore right that the cabinet should have done so. The Labour Party does not allow white-collar criminals to emerge from the dance in a structural manner. Bankruptcy fraud affects a lot of people, as we have heard, costs jobs and the chance of being caught is ridiculously small. The legislative proposals before us today make it easier to put those fraudsters behind bars. There's no excuse for not getting that chance of getting caught and bringing more people to justice. However, legislation alone is not enough; it is also a question of practice. I recently learned that someone came to the police station to report fraud and that the police officer said it was a civil matter. We have often talked about this in the Chamber, but it is still happening. Why do cops say that? They say that because they know that the D.A. isn't prosecuting. In this way, the figures may be good, but the practice is that a lot of fraud is being squeezed away. I ask the Minister whether, apart from these proposals, the practice is still under close scrutiny. I am in favour of both legislative proposals. Criticism raised in the consultation round has either been well refuted or taken over by the government in the final legislative proposals. Our mainly informative questions in the written round have been well answered. I thank the Cabinet for that. I think it is very important for a judicial test to be attached to the civil-law ban. This seems to me to be a basic starting point for the rule of law. This also responds to the amendment that has just been tabled and distributed, and which Mrs Helders will probably say about later. I would just like to say straight away to Mrs Helder that at least my group will not vote in favour of the amendment. More legislative proposals will be put forward to combat bankruptcy fraud and other fraud involving legal persons. One of these proposals concerns the establishment of a central shareholder register. This is a proposal from Mr Groot and myself. That bill will soon be sent to the Chamber and should enter into force as of 2016. The Minister states in the note following the report that he will inform the Chamber before the summer recess about the follow-up or the submission of the bill. The latter, the submission of the bill for the summer, is necessary if you really want it to enter into force by 2016. I'm asking the Minister if this will work. We've got about two weeks left. I'm now zooming in on the civil-law ban. Both the Public Prosecutor's Office and the curator may apply for a civil administrative ban. The D.A. can do that if the public interest is at stake. The curator can do so if he considers it useful for a property and if it serves the interest of creditors. However, both interests do not need to coincide. I have a difficult sentence on paper here, but I will say it in my own words; that is much easier. It's a coincidence. There are two interests. On the one hand, there's the district attorney and on the other hand, there's the curator. Their interests can bite each other. How has it been ensured that, in the event of conflicting interests, for example, the interests of society, which are handled by the Public Prosecutor, prevail over that of the curator? Maybe there's another way a priority arrangement has been devised. Can the Minister answer that? My second point is this. The administrative ban applies only to drivers in the Netherlands in the event of a lack of European harmonisation or coordination. A Dutch director with an administrative ban can then indirectly continue his fraudulent business through a foreign legal person as the director of a Dutch legal person. Is it to be expected that after the entry into force of this bill malicious drivers will continue their business in the Netherlands more than they do now through foreign legal entities? In any case, I think it is encouraging that the Minister, in reply to written questions from Mr Vos and myself, has indicated that he will draw attention to this at European level. I hope that will soon lead to results. Can the Minister say anything about this? I come to the review of the criminalisation of bankruptcy fraud. The curator will be given new powers to signal bankruptcy fraud. Now he already has a task in identifying irregularities. Then he can cover the costs from the estate or possibly rely on the guarantee rule or on existing compensation arrangements for reporting bankruptcy fraud to the FIOD. However, the Minister also sees that the legislative proposal can create financing needs that cannot be met from existing sources. I can imagine. The curator's investigation takes time and money. The Minister is in consultation with the Association of Insolvency Law Advocates and the Judge Commissioner in bankruptcy. I would not like to see the powers given to curators not being used because of a lack of resources. I'd like to get a reaction to this. In the written round I asked whether the bill could also help in the event of inappropriate use of a flash failure. The Minister states that this can be done, provided that the elements of the description of the crime in the new Code of Criminal Law are complied with. There must therefore be totally unreasonable actions which endanger the company's survival. The boundary between these unreasonable actions on the one hand and the permissible restructuring operation which nevertheless leads to the company's bankruptcy on the other is not quite clear to me. This is different on a case-by-case basis. Can the Minister specify this line? Today, which is positive news, I read a review of the Continuity Business I Bill, which was sent to the Chamber, which regulates the so-called pre-pack scheme that I have already mentioned. The review in Het Financieele Dagblad was very positive, among other things about the coherence between the potential of that law to allow companies that would go bankrupt to make a start easily and on the other hand the great danger we have also realized is that we have abused this kind of opportunity to dispose of personnel that you want to get rid of and that you will not get rid of in any other way. That has had terrible consequences. I would like to take a serious look at Mrs Gesthuizen's amendment on the increased penalty rate. On the one hand, white-collar crime really needs to be tackled more firmly, because the relationship is simply crooked. On the other hand, it's got to fit with the other penalties. It doesn't fit within the law system if there's some kind of spike in the penalty. I ask the Minister to reflect on that. I can judge that. I would like to say that I have a positive basic position on that amendment. I have one last point. We can regulate a lot with laws, but with laws alone, we're not there. We've seen it at bonuses. The moment the morale is not present under the law, there is a search for a way out. You can stop bonuses. If people think that they are entitled to more, and if morale is the same within the profession, then other ways are sought. If someone gets a lot of capital out of it before their company goes bankrupt, then it is important that there is some kind of public indignation about it, in the media but also among other professionals. The ethics must be: you do not, because you harm your staff. I wonder whether this is the case everywhere and always and whether attention can and will be paid to it. I've got two seconds. I'm rounding up. The odds of getting caught must be increased and the penalties must be treated equally. These laws are probably gonna help, but it's not the only one. Compliments for this first step, but I do expect step two, three and four to do it really better than it is now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u10	Mr. Chairman. Where bankruptcy has already caused distress to all concerned, bankruptcy fraud causes, if possible, additional damage. A bankruptcy is a failure, but certainly not a disgrace. Anyone who throws a shot at success sometimes misses. Bankruptcies are undoubtedly part of the corporate risk. Against that risk is a risk compensation in the form of profit. That's the game, that's the rules and that's how it has to be played. But anyone who commits bankruptcy fraud is cheating. Anyone who commits bankruptcy fraud is a disgrace to people's confidence in the economy, in directors and in each other. Precisely because that confidence comes on foot and goes on the horse, there must be a successful approach to bankruptcy fraud. This bill contributes to that trust. Given that bankruptcy law largely dates from the end of the nineteenth century, it was also time for modernisation. Today, we are taking a step in that direction, following which further steps will be taken as part of the review of bankruptcy law. Fraud harms everyone, from employee to customer and from entrepreneur to creditor. The financial damage of bankruptcy fraud was estimated by the Public Prosecutor in 2013 at 1.28 billion per year. So we are talking about a considerable problem here today. The proposed civil-law ban ensures that malpracticers are placed on a public blacklist with the trade register. This allows, for example, supervisory directors, supervisors and employees to exclude a works council from suitable directors in advance. In addition, the civil-law ban ensures that malpractice directors can no longer become directors or directors of a company for a maximum of five years. Last year, the VVD called for better tools in healthcare, for example, to help prevent malpractice in another healthcare institution. This bill realizes this ambition. I would like to ask another question about the procedure for removing the name of an ex-driver from the register after the end of the five-year period. Can the Minister indicate whether this will be done within a working day after the expiry of the deadline? If not, what deadline is the Minister thinking? In addition to the Black List of the Trade Register, it cannot be excluded that the distribution of names of wrongdoers would also take place via the Digital Highway, even before the court has ruled. That would result in trial by media. This would be undesirable. Legal persons could abuse the dissemination of names to harm other entrepreneurs. With regard to the Internet and search engines such as Google, drivers can of course submit removal requests themselves, which the search engines can then assess on a case-by-case basis. How does the Minister view this point? The civil-law ban not only helps entrepreneurs and customers, but also makes sure that the threshold for taking this measure is lowered because, in addition to the prosecution, the curator is now watching with the judge-supervisor. However, I would like to highlight the role of the curator and the judge-supervisor. My colleague from D66 already did. Their responsibilities will be increased by this legislative proposal. That obliges us to stop doing so. Although the curator is already legally obliged to always put the interests of the estate and the interests of the joint creditors first. Therefore, he can only take important decisions together with the court commissioner involved in the bankruptcy, but what, whether legal or not, requirements and criteria should the curator, according to the Minister, comply with in order to apply to the court commissioner for a restraining order in the near future? This is an important point for my group, so I would like to hear more from the Minister. Perhaps this comes back to another bill, which Mrs Berndsen has already referred to. I would also like to hear more from the Minister about the review and due diligence criteria that the judge-supervisor then uses to whether or not to accept a request to initiate a procedure to impose a ban on administration. A ban on administration is a pro-active means, which we support, but it is a means of horse-fighting, which clearly interferes with the freedom and life of the individual concerned, so we want it to be used only where necessary and we want careful consideration. In addition, I would like to know how to prevent the curator from being too frivolous about requesting information about directors and companies from third parties. How do we prevent the curator from failing to search for himself within the administration of the failed legal person before entrusting third parties with an information request? I would also like to receive a response from the Minister. Furthermore, there is a need to prevent this from happening, as has already been pointed out, that civil law bans and criminal measures may exclude each other, because one of the two roads has already been walked, the una via the principle. How will the Minister ensure that civil law and criminal law cross one another? Is the Minister prepared to include the points I have just mentioned as concerns in an evaluation to be carried out within five years? I would like to touch on Mrs Helder's amendment. As I have just said, my group also attaches great importance to judicial review and control, and I still see the amendment as a restriction on judicial control. I am also reading a reversal of the burden of proof, but I am very curious about the Minister's vision. The same applies to Mrs Gesthuizen's proposal. We are particularly curious to see how this fits in with the systematic and penalty measurement for similar offences. So we await the Minister's response on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u11	In criminal law, you'll be released once you've served your sentence, but you'll always be known to have committed criminal activities. If you've had a restraining order, it ends at some point and you can become a manager of a company again. In Mr Van Wijngaarden's plans it seems that the people involved in trade do not see this anymore. Did I get that correctly?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u12	Here's what I've reported. At the moment when a government ban has not yet been imposed, a trial by media may already arise, without the judge having looked at it. We would like a response on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u13	Then I have another question for Mr Van Wijngaarden. Someone gets a restraining order and after a certain period that's over. Does it still have to be clear or transparent that someone has had an administrative ban in the past?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u14	The moment you start naming a driver, you need to see who it is. Here's the bill that says there's a blacklist in the Trade Register. We support that, too. After five years, someone disappears from that blacklist. That's the bill we're discussing right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u15	Exactly, then he can be a driver again. Isn't it true that people who want to do business with a company need to know that someone used to do wrong things in the context of bankruptcy?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u16	It's always good to appoint anyone to see who you're facing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u17	Mr. Chairman. The extent of fraud in the Netherlands is large. There are huge sums of money involved. Fraud and therefore bankruptcy fraud undermines confidence in trade, distorts competition and causes major financial damage. Figures for 2010 from the Central Bureau of Statistics show that, after a company's bankruptcy, a total amount of almost 4 billion euros of uncovered debts remains. Of these, almost EUR 700 million, i.e. around 18%, came from bankruptcies involving criminal harm. This needs to be addressed. My group therefore welcomes the fact that we are discussing two legislative proposals today, namely the Civil Law Ban Act and the Law Review of Bankruptcy Fraud. Both legislative proposals are part of the Legislative Programme Herijking Bankruptcy Law. I'll start with the civil-law ban. This legislative proposal will make it possible to impose an administrative ban on directors by civil law in the event of bankruptcy fraud or maladministration within a period of three years prior to bankruptcy. Such a prohibition may be imposed for a maximum period of five years. This means, in concrete terms, that the person concerned cannot be appointed director or commissioner of a legal person for the duration for which the prohibition has been imposed. He or she may no longer exercise his or her duties as director of the bankrupt legal person or any other legal person in which he or she exercises an administrative function. The aim of the ban is to prevent fraudulent drivers from continuing their activities by means of all kinds of detours and by means of new legal entities. My group has proposed this in the past, so it will not surprise anyone that we are in favour of this bill. In 2012, it appeared that despite a criminal record, a number of notorious bankruptcy fraudsters were able to set up nearly 100 legal entities unhindered. My group said at the time that something had to be done about it. My group's proposal at that time was that, at least five years after an irrevocable conviction for bankruptcy fraud, no company should be set up. The Minister indicated in the same consultation that he wanted to achieve this by means of a civil administrative ban. That's what we're talking about today. As I said, my group supports this proposal. We do have a few more questions. An extension of the five-year period is not possible. This can only be done when a new situation arises. Then there must be a new procedure in which there is once again a ban on administration. My group wants to know whether, since 2012, the debate that I have just referred to has been taking place at that time, even new cases of recurrent drivers have been known. In addition, my group wants to know whether judges are expected to make use of the civil administrative ban. The reason for that question is that the court is not obliged to impose an administrative ban, even if the exhaustive list of grounds on the basis of which an administrative ban can be imposed is complied with. For the enthusiast, these grounds are set out in Article 106a, as stated in the bill. In Germany, however, an administrative ban does enter into force as it were, they call it "quasi' if the relevant conditions are met. This is more appealing to my group, but the Minister did not go into this very comprehensively in the note on the report. That's why I'm asking him if he can still do that. Why is the example of Germany not followed? For a number of reasons, my group finds it strange that a civil administrative ban should not enter into force automatically. Firstly, a restrictive list of grounds on the basis of which an administrative ban can be imposed has been chosen. Secondly, that's a more important reason, the Minister says that a civil administrative ban has added value, as it can be imposed quickly. Thirdly, the introduction of the possibility of a civil administrative ban is intended to prevent future damage. In fact, the person concerned may not again act as the director of a legal person for a period of up to five years. The latter reason is not the least important: the curator incurs costs in proceedings leading to a civil administrative ban. These costs are again borne by the estate or creditors. That is why I would like to respond to this point. It is now known that my group has tabled an amendment on this point. My group also wants to know whether judges make sufficient use of the prohibition of criminal proceedings. In fact, my group does not like to see the civil administrative ban being chosen instead of the criminal route for cases where there is sufficient evidence for successful criminal proceedings. In criminal proceedings there is then a conviction. That gives you a criminal record, and then you're gonna have trouble getting a statement about the behavior. In this way, too, a new attempt at business start-up can be concluded. That is one of the aims of the legislative proposals that we are discussing here today. Let me now turn to the other bill, namely the draft Review of Bankruptcy Fraud. This bill criminalises certain new behaviours, such as failure to carry out or maintain an administration in breach of a legal obligation and excessive expenditure prior to bankruptcy or authorisation, with the result that creditors are disadvantaged in their remedies. The bill will make it possible to take criminal action before bankruptcy occurs. Even bankruptcy is not required in certain serious cases, i.e. where the undertaking is deliberately placed in financial difficulties by the action of the driver concerned. If a bankruptcy is averted from third parties, despite that conduct, the person who has acted guilty will go free. This bill will put an end to that. That is only right, because it is the intention of the actor and not the consequence that he or she is equal and that has been averted by third parties. It will not be surprising that this bill, too, has the support of my group. It was a pity that the failure to comply with the duty of proper administration had no independent criminalisation. The fact that it is now being dealt with is something I cannot help saying, Mr President, thanks to a motion by the PVV which has been adopted unanimously. However, my group would like to stress the importance of increasing the willingness to report to curators. That's what I said in 2012 and now again. In response to the questions raised by my group in the debate on the report, the Minister points to arrangements that already exist. I know, but apparently they are not helping enough, because the willingness to report is still not enough. My group has said before, and I think this is still true, because the reason for the low willingness is that there is a lack of feedback from the police on what is happening with the declaration. I also mention the lack of expertise in the police and the compensation the curator gets for dealing with bankruptcy. Curators have little need of making a declaration if the time they have lost with it comes on their own account and nothing happens or appears to happen with the declaration. Recently an article was published in the Volkskrant in which curators indicate that they do not want to catch criminals at the expense of the property. That is also understandable, because the curator is obliged to tax the property as little as possible. Since the fight against fraud is now going to be a legal task for the curator, my group would like to hear concrete measures from the minister who is helping curators to increase the willingness to report. My group welcomes the addition of FTEs for the specialty of financial and economic expertise in the National Police. In reply to my group's question as to whether there will be any change in the organization other than FTEs, it is said that enlargement will not in principle be at the expense of other specialities or capacities. But then, of course, what does "in principle" mean? Is there enough financial expertise in the CID? I remind the Minister of the passages in the book by Michiel Princen, "The Caged CID." The Minister will know by now, because he has received the book before he takes office from a colleague. Maybe he's already read it. Then he can use this to answer my group's questions on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u18	Mr. Chairman. I have heard a number of Members say in this debate that our bankruptcy law dates back to the nineteenth century, and that is, of course, also largely the case. Although in the meantime there has been an enormous amount of cultivation and we must also note that the Netherlands was very progressive in its bankruptcy law, it is also good to note that bankruptcy law is in need of improvement in a number of areas. This is particularly true with regard to the fight against bankruptcy fraud. Today's legislative proposals are rooted in the bankruptcy fraud letter of the end of 2012, and it is certainly true that the never-ending attention of the Chamber to this phenomenon, in particular Mrs Gesthuizen and Mr van Oosten, has contributed to the fact that we are standing here with two sound legislative proposals, which I am pleased to note will be able to accept by a large majority, if not unanimously. I am pleased that a number of questions have nevertheless been asked, partly of a critical nature. It is good to discuss the advantages and disadvantages of these legislative proposals with each other as well. I gained my first experience of bankruptcy fraud in the first years that I worked as a lawyer in Rotterdam. I was with a cat catcher. I always thought they were bad guys, but in this case, they weren't. The good man himself was swindled by people who in the classic way committed bankruptcy fraud and offered him, as he himself thought, the chance of his life to finally get a serious job. He seized that opportunity with both hands, and then became the center of a big scam. I've learned a lot from that. I've also seen where it's difficult. I mention the role of the curator, who is acting for creditors. I call it the phenomenon of the empty estate. How can you act as a curator? I mention the effect of the Guarantee Scheme curators, which nevertheless makes it possible to take steps in the general interest that a curator also represents. Ultimately, the whole bankruptcy law is based on two main pillars. On the one hand, an entrepreneur can go bankrupt and it is good that he can go on with a new company as soon as possible. On the other hand, there are the interests of creditors, often also the interests of staff and all in all the interests of society. One thing is certain: all these interests require a firm approach to fraud in the case of bankruptcies. With the support of the Chamber, the Cabinet is therefore committed to four key issues: integrity of administration, effective supervision, transparency of the economy and good second chances for businesses and entrepreneurs. Especially in these times, which are economically complicated, these are crucial issues, which require decisive action. I know that these themes are close to the heart of the Chamber. Fighting fraud also weighs very heavily on the part of the Court, in particular because the emotional, but above all the economic and social damage caused by bankruptcy fraud is very serious. That is why the cabinet has declared a triplet of fraud measures: today's two legislative proposals and a legislative proposal which regulates the introduction of a fraud-signatory task for the curator, on which the Council of State has very recently advised. Today's legislative proposals are complementary in a number of respects. First of all, they provide for a better toolbox for combating bankruptcy fraud, both in civil law and in criminal law. Both give the state's attorney's office much more room for manoeuvre. The draft law on criminal bankruptcy law has a repressive approach. It provides for a substantially renewed criminal offence which will enable the effective detection and prosecution of bankruptcy fraud. I would like to mention, among other things, the introduction of a separate offence of breach of administrative obligations, which also implements the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Helder and other members of the Chamber. In addition, more attention is paid to malpractice and deliberately inappropriate entrepreneurship as a form of bankruptcy fraud. On the other hand, a forward-looking, more preventive approach is central to the civil-law ban. Rogue drivers are temporarily unable to manage legal persons, which means that they cannot exercise the limited liability that a legal person offers. This is also the essential difference between the driver of a legal person and the driver of a company under firm or sole proprietorship. In that context, you cannot hide behind the legal person "a one-man business" is not a legal person "a person" and therefore, if you commit fraud, you are always personally liable for the damage. So it is also obvious that one-man business owners, people who act in person, will not soon be involved in bankruptcy fraud. After all, they are going bankrupt themselves. That is precisely why there is bankruptcy fraud against legal persons, because the person concerned will not go bankrupt, so that the damage can be passed on to another person. I shall come back to that in a moment in response to the questions put. The administrative prohibition prevents further damage to trade from being caused by the fact that the persons concerned are no longer able to hide behind the legal personality of a company. The proposal is also in line with the European Commission's vision of a new approach to bankruptcy, which encourages Member States to strengthen the civil instruments for combating fraud. Both legislative proposals assign the curator a central role as liquidator of the estate and guardian of creditors' interests. That is appropriate, because the curator has been given a central role in our legal system and bankruptcy law and has been doing so with great success for many years. The criminal bill for adequate criminalisation of breach of the obligation to provide information and cooperation with the curator also makes an important contribution to the new law. The administrative ban is an important innovation by giving the curator himself the new power to seek a ban on the administration of malicious drivers. Both legislative proposals constitute a coherent package of measures that will enable us to combat bankruptcy fraud much more effectively in the near future. With a look at the figures on the criminal law approach to bankruptcy fraud, we can see that there has been a marked increase in the number of investigations arrested and in the number of criminal cases handled over the past two years. This is satisfactory, and I will therefore, in my role as Minister, ensure that the upward trend is maintained. That brings me to the answers to the individual questions put by the members of the Chamber. Mrs Gesthuizen asked for attention to the RADAR system. It asked, among other things, how many risk reports and how many were provided in 2014. First of all, let me say that I believe that RADAR is working satisfactorily. There has been an increase in the number of risk notifications and this is not only limited to bankruptcy fraud, as this line can also be seen in other risk areas. A total of more than 1 million legal entities have been monitored, of which 365,000 changes to the trade register have been analysed by RADAR. This led to 2,094 cases being dealt with. In 2014, 282 risk notifications and 1,110 network drawings were issued. There has been strong growth especially since July 2014. In 2013, 137 risk notifications and 817 network drawings were issued. The evaluation shows that many concrete actions have been taken, such as the conduct of company visits, the safeguarding of accounts, the withdrawal of a VAT number, the investigation of redress, the seizure or the detention and prosecution of suspected fraud. Mrs. Gesthuizen asked if the WODC could investigate the bankruptcy settlement. Mrs Gesthuizen indicated that she would like more information in this area. Since I share that thought with her, I will ask the WODC to allocate capacity for such research within the existing research agenda. As soon as the WODC has taken a decision on this matter, I will inform the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u19	Of course, I'm very happy about that. Thank you very much for that commitment. I did have a question about RADAR. It is good to hear that, in the opinion of Minister RADAR, it is now working properly, or'satisfied', as I believe he said. Besides, I'm wondering. From all the figures mentioned by the Minister, I do not yet distill whether this has actually led to bankruptcy fraud cases, i.e. cases, prosecutions, which were linked to bankruptcy fraud.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u20	I think I'll get back to that. If not, I'll do it in second term. In my view, the number of actual cases is still relatively limited, but I will see if I can get back to that. Otherwise, I will inform the Chamber in the second term. Mrs Gesthuizen and Mr Oskam have drawn attention to the remuneration of curators for these additional tasks. I would point out that two grounds for a ban affect the general interest. In doing so, action by the Public Prosecutor is more reason than action by the curator. This applies in particular to repetitive bankruptcies and tax fines. The other three cases are more in the curator's field, because they represent the creditor's interest. This is the case in the case of personal liability of directors, in the case of the destruction of actions where creditors have been deliberately harmed and in the event of serious opposition from the curator. It is logical that the curator himself should act against this. In the latter case, the preventive effect of the administrative ban is mainly due to the adverse effect of the curator's action on the part of a criminal offence. In practice, therefore, the curator is expected to apply for a prohibition of administration for two reasons: administrative liability or paulianous actions destroyed. It is therefore generally possible to build on the preliminary investigation under these two actions and to introduce the administrative ban as a secondary action. The additional costs are expected to be very low, if not negligible, as INSOLAD itself indicates. INSOLAD is the association of curators, I add for those who may not know. However, should there be any practical difficulties in bringing these claims, we must, of course, take a look at how that is going to develop. I am, of course, prepared to involve these problems in the review of the Supervisory Board's 2012 Supervisory Board's policy on guarantee schemes, which is currently being worked on. I therefore propose that we first gain this experience and then see if there is a need for an additional contribution to the guarantee scheme. I will, however, consult INSOLAD in due course, in the context of the experience gained, to see how realistic the situation is and where possible bottlenecks lie. I also do not want to undermine at the moment the cost of the guarantee scheme and the test criteria for access to that scheme, such as the possibility of recovering assets. Where assets can be recovered by the curator, it is not obvious that a claim to the guarantee scheme is made. Mrs Gesthuizen asked whether the administrative ban should also apply to directors who are enriching themselves with bonuses while there is a risk of bankruptcy. As Mrs Gesthuizen pointed out, in the note on the report, I made it clear that I agree with her that this is undesirable. In the event that drivers enrich themselves in the face of bankruptcy, there are already instruments to mitigate or counter bonuses. They range from a considerable moderation on the grounds of reasonableness and fairness, through the personal liability of the director to destruction by the curator in the event of a misdemeanour of creditors; that is the so-called actio paulia on which one of the members has just stumbled charmingly. In the case of fraud, therefore, the criminal road is in the picture. This bill adds to it a civil administrative ban. In the case of administrative liability or conscious creditors' detriment, self-enrichment through the bonuses will soon be subject to an administrative ban. I do not reject the extension of the administrative ban to non-bankruptcy situations in advance. Mrs. Gesthuizen pointed that out. However, I would like to highlight the experience of this law. Finally, I consider that the administrative ban is inappropriate to prevent the payment of regularly agreed bonuses. We may find it sometimes too high.. the debate on this takes place regularly in the Chamber.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... This would also be at odds with the ECHR. My proposal is, therefore, to keep this point in mind and to look at it in the light of the experience gained in the drafting of the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u21	I began to applaud until the Minister arrived at the last part of his speech. This is precisely what I made a point of in my speech: people who reward themselves generously, with in mind the knowledge that the company is not doing well and that the company may fail, but who, according to their contract, are entitled to a bonus. The Minister is actually saying: sorry, but there is nothing else we can do about it. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u22	There are a lot of situations conceivable, but there are two main situations. The first is the situation in which the director of a company is itself a major shareholder and can therefore determine his own remuneration. Then, in theory, he can award himself a bonus that is not contractually provided. If he takes on that bonus under the threat of bankruptcy, you can destroy it on the basis of the paulian act that it is in fact: you harm the creditor with that. In that case, this problem has already been solved with the existing instrument. The second situation concerns a company in which a director grants a bonus to a non-director, a non-statutary person. It's possible. This may be paulian for the same reason, especially if there is no contractual relationship, but if there is a contract under which you are obliged to pay the bonus, the question arises as to whether it is reasonable to involve this in an administrative ban, unless you have the other existing measures at your disposal. If it is very clear criminal law, it can be resolved through criminal law. Then you don't need Mrs. Gesthuizen's suggestion. That is why I propose that we take a look at this and, in the light of experience with this law, consider whether enlargement would be necessary. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Gesthuizen also said that she heard from the business community that the Public Prosecutor's Office had relatively little criminal law bans. She asked how. The Public Prosecutor's Office has the possibility to claim a criminal withdrawal from an appeal as an additional sentence. The Public Prosecutor's Office independently decides whether it is appropriate to take this as a penalty in certain cases. The independent judge ultimately determines what punishment is imposed on suspects. Indeed, this is not an enormous number of cases. In fact, according to the Public Prosecutor's Office, only three cases were involved in specific bankruptcy fraud cases. I do not yet have figures on the number of claims or penalties in 2015; these are the figures from 2014. I agree with Mrs Gesthuizen: if this is all there is to it, it is fine and there is nothing to it, but it seems that this could concern more things. If I discuss these legislative proposals with the D.A., I will also discuss this issue. Mrs Gesthuizen also asked whether the Public Prosecutor's Office is doing too little with the fraud signals of curators. She has asked me if I see any signs of improvement on this point. I don't recognize this statue. The establishment of the Central Reporting Point Bankruptcy fraud at the FIOD led to a central intake of signals, notifications and declarations from curators. The central intake is supportive of the information position. Centrally collecting available information makes it possible to identify patterns faster. Further arrangements were then made between the police and the Public Prosecutor regarding the distribution of simple and complex bankruptcy cases. This collaboration is working well. In my opinion, fraud signals are issued by curators, and of course the principle of opportunity must be applied. Mrs Gesthuizen and Mrs Berndsen have asked about the coincidence between the cut in the Public Prosecutor's Office agreed in recent years, largely with the agreement of your Chamber, and the fight against fraud as it is now foreseen. I am not saying anything surprising when I note that this cabinet is aiming for an orderly government budget and that the fraud approach must therefore also be financed from the funds available. It is wise to take budget reservations into account for the implementation of these legislative proposals. It is also wise to make a realistic assessment of future expenditure. In this case, it is pragmatic to monitor the efforts of the Public Prosecutor for two years. The Public Prosecutor's Office is expected to be able to carry out the tasks arising from these legislative proposals within the available budget. There is therefore no need for additional funding for the implementation of these legislative proposals by the Public Prosecutor's Office.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u23	Of course, I expected this answer. This task is now added, but what will go on with the tasks of the Public Prosecutor when this law comes into force? If the D.A. gets less money, it can do less. If this is added, it could take a lot of work and time, and that would have to be done at the expense of something.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u24	Of course, we do not know if that is the case. It is therefore not appropriate at the moment to take this into account in the context of financing. This is also the subject of the general agreement which I repeated this morning in the presence of Mrs Berndsen, that if the Public Prosecutor's Office gets into trouble, knowing that it is going to be punished, as the President of the College of Attorneys-General calls it, I will then be available to speak to the Public Prosecutor. However, at the moment I do not see any reason or need to make an extra contribution to this on a financial basis.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u25	I can hear the Minister say that there must be a budget reservation. Apparently, the Minister already has in mind that the money costs and that the budget should be reserved for that purpose. Can I consider the Minister's words as a commitment that if this is monitored and it costs more capacity, there will be a budget for the Public Prosecutor's Office? Talking about it alone isn't gonna help. Is the Minister prepared to give at least some financial supplement to the Public Prosecutor's Office?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u26	I must be careful, of course, because this is not the budget for the year 2016 of my department, nor of the Public Prosecutor's Office. What I have said applies in general terms; my predecessor has also repeated it several times. We know that the Public Prosecutor's Office sails to the wind, given the targets. If there is a need for extra money, that does not have to come from this; I wouldn't like to limit it to this either. I'm available to have that conversation, as my predecessor used to say so beautifully. I will. There is no point in adding hands, feet or amounts. Mrs Gesthuizen has asked whether if you impose the administrative ban as irrevocably established that a driver is liable for the deficit in the property, you must wait until that time to request a ban on administration and the driver can remain active in the meantime. I have also heard this question from Mr Van Wijngaarden: what are you doing in the meantime? You're suing that driver; can you get to work in the meantime? Requests for an administrative ban may be made at the same time as actions for liability for the deficit in the property. The administrative ban will not apply until the judgment in which liability has been adopted becomes irrevocable. A director against whom an application for an administrative ban has been made may, at the request of the Public Prosecutor or the curator, be suspended in the interim by the court. That's where the space is. If the curator or the prosecutor considers that it is urgently necessary that the person concerned is already removed from the company in which he or she is active, he or she may be suspended on request. Mrs Gesthuizen asked whether the civil-law ban would go faster than the criminal-law ban. This depends to a large extent on the circumstances of the case. In any case, a civil administrative ban can be imposed much more quickly, as no prior criminal conviction is required. In particular, a civil-law ban is more rapid in the case of repetitive bankruptcies, when a person is always guilty of several bankruptcies in succession, and in the case of tax penalties. It is precisely in those easily proven cases that the D.A. can give a brief blow. These are cases where the social damage is greatest, so that comes together nicely. Here is a clear advantage of the civil-law ban over the criminal ban. I therefore think it is wise that the best and easiest method of achieving the desired result should always be considered. One time it will be a civil administrative ban, the other time it will be a criminal ban. The curator himself plays a role in this, because he can invoke the criminal administrative ban in the event of a declaration against the driver concerned. Mrs Gesthuizen asked whether the administrative ban also works as a zzp'er cheats, someone who operates in a one-man business or in a company under firm. Yes, the scheme also looks at entrepreneurs who repeatedly make a mess of things with a single-man case. That person may not become the director of a legal person, but he may have a sole proprietorship. Otherwise, it would be contrary to the ECHR, the right of everyone to provide for their own maintenance. I already indicated that there is a second reason. If you are active in a one-man business, you are liable with your entire assets for the damage you do. That's exactly the difference with the companies. That's why the last point in the administrative ban is more pragmatous there, because then others always pay for the damage instead of yourself. At least, in many cases and on that we are trying to do something. Mrs Gesthuizen asked if employees, if they have knowledge of repetitive bankruptcies......................................................................................................................................................................................... Of course, this can be done, both to the curator once there is bankruptcy, and to the Public Prosecutor's Office as well as to the fraud hotline, which Mrs Gesthuizen knows more about than I do. Mrs. Gesthuizen has asked about the difference in punishment. I have a nice, long and complicated legal story about that. It's here on two pages and I can summarize it with one very simple sentence. It looked at the relationship between the various criminal provisions, which showed that two years as a penalty limit would be good in that ratio. This is particularly true because the infringement of the administrative provision on which it is based does not require proper administration to take place for the purposes of disadvantage. It may also be the case for other reasons. It may even be this way outside someone's fault; for example, the administration has been stolen or caught on fire. If Mrs Gesthuizen and the Chamber felt that the balance between the various articles and the measures of punishment was not good, Mrs Gesthuizen supported this with the six years she has indicated. I can live with an increase in the penalty rate to four years. Eventually, the judge has to give his final judgment and the prosecution has to rule the penalty. I assume that if there has been no intent on the disappearance of the administration or the failure to have the administration, there will be no criminal proceedings. For this reason, we have built in two safety valves on this point. If the Chamber attaches importance to an increase in the penalty rate and would arrange for this by means of an amendment, I will finally be able to give an opinion on this in the light of the comments I have made. I have not yet seen the amendment. If it comes for the second term, I can look at the text of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u27	For the Acts: I mistakenly said in my first term that I hoped it would still be submitted. It has now been submitted and I will see to it in a moment through the messenger that the minister gets a copy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u28	I will look at the text for the second time to see whether it is in line with the legal provision. If that is the case, I shall leave the House to decide on the amendment. The Chamber will then have to consider for itself the relationship which the Chamber considers appropriate. Mrs Gesthuizen asked whether the investigation of bankruptcy fraud should always be carried out by the regional police or whether it could also be carried out by the base police. I think it is very important that bankruptcy fraud can be arrested by the entire police organisation. This is also necessary for an effective approach, because bankruptcy fraud is common and has many different forms of occurrence, from very simple to extremely complex. For simple matters, the deployment of the base police force is sufficient. It would be a waste of the time of the more specialized detectives if he had to take those cases down. For complex cases, it is clear that scaling up is needed at regional level and that, for example, the FIOD is also involved. The base police can therefore conduct an excellent investigation into the shopkeeper who is suspected of having placed part of his store stock elsewhere, sold fraudulently or otherwise out of reach of the curator just before the bankruptcy took place. It may, in support of this, rely on the Simple Bankruptcy Fraud Guidelines. It may also draw on the financial expertise it needs. The base police can thus play a good basic role, but it goes without saying that scaling up takes place as soon as necessary. The Public Prosecutor's Office supervises the allocation of cases and consults with the FIOD. Mr Oskam asked about the relationship between the curator and the Public Prosecutor's Office in the event of an administrative ban. The nice thing is that one person's decision doesn't bind the other. Even if the public prosecutor decides not to prosecute him, the curator may still file the claim under civil law, and even if the curator is in the interest of creditors, the public prosecutor may still claim an administrative ban on criminal proceedings, since society may have an interest in preventing the person concerned from becoming active in a company. I share Mr Oskam's view that coordination between the curator and the Public Prosecutor is desirable. For this purpose, the fraud hearing can be used, in which the curator, the Public Prosecutor and the judge-supervisor can consult with each other. This was rolled out in pilot form in The Hague. I understand that it is a success and will be rolled out nationwide, so that all courts can have a fraud hearing. Mr Oskam has asked whether the decision of the Public Prosecutor's Office should be justified if it does not exercise the power to apply for an administrative ban. The Public Prosecutor's Office has several civil jurisdictions in legal law and interested parties may request the Public Prosecutor's Office to use them. In practice, the Public Prosecutor's Office always considers carefully whether or not those powers are being exercised and the applicants are being informed. Mr Oskam then asked what will be registered in the Trade Register if an administrative ban is imposed and who has access to the Trade Register. The following information will be publicly available: the indication of the person to whom the prohibition has been imposed, the grounds for the imposition and the duration of the administrative ban. This information may also be consulted by reference to the court ruling in question. So everyone has access to that information: what is going on, who is it and how long will it take?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u29	I have a question on the previous point. In criminal law, a victim can go to the court to ask if the decision of the prosecutor is good if it does not work out favorably for him. That is not the case with this legislation. I asked the Minister if he had any ideas about that. Does the decision of the Public Prosecutor stop, whether or not to state reasons, or is another possibility still being considered for an injured party seeking a ban on administration?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u30	I'm gonna have to check that out. I will answer Mr Oskam's question in the second term. Mr Oskam asked whether the fact that an administrative ban was imposed should remain visible even after the end of the administrative ban. I think that is a question of principle. If it remains visible, it will in fact be a life-long administrative ban, because de facto everyone can know that you have ever been banned from administration. The principle of the law is that registration takes place for the duration of the prohibition. Following the removal of the ban from the Trade Register. The punishment will be over. If it were to be visible, I would not consider that proportionate to the application of the rather violent punishment. Mr Oskam has asked whether it is true that the way in which the Trade Register can be understood is not yet entirely clear. The administrative prohibitions will be registered by the Chamber of Commerce on a public and easily searchable list with the Trade Register. Again, in addition to the registration of the administrative ban, the grounds and the like will be available for consultation at the Trade Register. Preparations for the necessary adaptation of the Trade Register to the legislation are currently at an advanced stage. I assume that this registration will be in order once the law has been passed and published in the Official Journal. Mr Oskam has made a clear assessment of the Personal Data Protection College. I would like to point out that this is Mr Oskam's opinion and that I do not endorse that view as a minister a priori. The Personal Data Protection Board will, of course, be consulted on the aspects relating to the protection of the privacy of our residents, which of course are linked to the registration of administrative prohibitions in and in the Trade Register. I can't say anything about the results of that. We will have to wait for the response, but of course I will keep my finger on the pulse and, together with Mr Kamp, give due attention to this important issue and the legitimate concern that the College might have about the protection of privacy. Mr Oskam asked: what will happen to that information? It's been public for a while. Does it remain public after that, which in fact means that it is still visible? These are typically aspects that the College should look at personal data protection. Mr Oskam also asked why there was a reluctance to link insolvency registers at European level. It is only after a number of years that this link will take shape that we are now expecting. Inclusion of the administrative ban is an option. Moreover, many European countries do not yet have an administrative ban. In this area too, we are not entirely at the forefront, but we are at the forefront. Because our register will be available for consultation from all over the European Union, there is already full transparency from the Netherlands. We can therefore sit back and wait for European developments. We are leaders together with, among other things, the United Kingdom. Mr Oskam asked whether small and medium-sized businesses would not suffer from the more severe criminal charges. Offences are there to deal with people who are criminal or have criminal behavior. Whether they are white-collar criminals in large companies or in small businesses, it does not matter to me. In both cases, they need to be tackled firmly. It is fair to say that it can sometimes be much easier for smaller companies to commit fraud because they have fewer staff, have fewer controls or because of the managing director-major shareholder situation. Of course, the Public Prosecutor's Office will pursue a prudent prosecution policy in this respect. The Public Prosecutor's Office should ensure that small but also large companies do not suffer unnecessary suspicions. At the same time, in both cases, there must be the sharpness to allow that persecution to take place where necessary. In any case, the principle of the law is not that it targets small businesses more than large ones. They are really criminals, wherever they manifest themselves in Dutch business. This has been explicitly taken into account in the drafting of the legislative proposals. Mr Oskam has asked if I can give examples of acts that are similar to malpractice, but which are not covered by the proposed criminal acts. We have, of course, tried to get everything under criminal law, but that will never work. You can never write a law that covers everything without so much underneath that the law goes beyond what you really want. For example, excessive expenditure can be punishable if it is totally unreasonable. There is room in that: a margin of appreciation, I say in bad Dutch. There's room for interpretation. It then concerns the context of the company and transactions which do not serve a real economic purpose. This will have to be assessed, taking into account the use in the sector concerned and the time of action. An example of an action that may be highly detrimental but not overly qualified is, for example, investment in an ICT system. It may mean the end of the business at the end of the journey, but the question remains as to whether this will result in a criminal offence. This is certainly not the case if the ICT system is needed to make the company work, but you can determine afterwards whether it was necessary or whether it has been an exorbitantly high risk. After the Elias Committee, I think everyone agrees with me. Mrs Gesthuizen asked whether the number of cases could be determined at regional level. As we know, there will be a fraud monitor that provides insight into national figures. A benchmark based on regional figures seems to me to have no added value. Indeed, the size of the economy and the number of entrepreneurs varies considerably from region to region. So I see no added value in keeping and offering the figures nationwide. I have already told Mr Oskam that I will take the reaction of the College on personal data protection very seriously. Mr Oskam also asked whether repetition of paulian acts could lead to deliberate disadvantage of creditors and, if so, whether the curator and the Public Prosecutor would pay priority to this. It goes without saying that paulian acts, including their recurrence, can lead to a serious disadvantage for creditors. The judge will ultimately judge that. I assume that if there is a recurrence, the Public Prosecutor will take this into account, not only in demanding a ban on administration, but also in any other criminal charges. In addition, other provisions of criminal or bankruptcy law, such as Article 106a, can still be used. Mrs Berndsen asked when the fraud monitor will be ready. The first monitor will cover 2015 and will be available in 2016. The fraud monitor will contain figures and qualitative information on the main themes of the state-wide approach to fraud. This has been the subject of quantitative agreements between the State's Attorney General and the police. Mrs Berndsen also asked whether the curator could easily pass on fraud signals to the authorities. I have answered a similar question before. The answer to that is yes. The fraud procedures will be rolled out throughout the Netherlands in the future. During that meeting, the investigating authorities and the judge-supervisor will be present. This will enable the exchange of information to take place quickly and effectively. It is also easy to reconcile what action has been taken. For example, if the Public Prosecutor decides not to do anything, the entrepreneur concerned may decide to take action. Mrs Berndsen also asked whether it would be fair to pass the curator's costs on to the buddies, on the backs of the creditors. The grounds for a ban directly concern the position of creditors in the bankruptcy. That could be an easy step towards administrative liability. There may also be a pauliaanous disadvantage in any case, the creditors have already been disadvantaged by the curator and/or manifest opposition. The creditors always have an interest in ensuring that the receiver can also take action against such acts in the event of an administrative ban. That is why I do not think it is unreasonable to charge the cost of a claim to the private property. In practice, however, this is often a secondary claim in the case of, for example, an action for administrative liability, so that the costs of the secondary claim may be negligible. At business level, the amounts involved are small. How high they are will depend on the circumstances in the case in question. I intend to monitor that. If there are any problems, particularly with the guarantee scheme, I will look into them. Mrs Berndsen also asked whether we only catch the small fish or also the big fish and what about the supervisors at health care institutions. In principle, those who are subject to an administrative ban cannot remain or become directors or commissioners in the case of another legal person. An administrative ban may also be imposed on directors who can be considered to be factual policy-makers. This is quite common in a number of companies. For the time being, such persons cannot be directors or commissioners, nor can they be Commissioners anywhere. This also applies to drivers of health care institutions. Mrs Berndsen also asked about the consistency of the present legislative proposals and the draft law on the strengthening of the curator's position. The last bill goes to the Chamber this summer. It has increased information and cooperation obligations. A good example of this was found in the case I mentioned at the beginning of my speech. The question was how to oblige those concerned to cooperate in the event of bankruptcy. This is particularly true of those who left in time for bankruptcy. How do we obtain all the necessary information from these people? This applies, for example, to the declaration of foreign bank assets, to the curator's request for the administration from third parties and to the provision of codes to prevent the curator from getting only encrypted files that are not accessible to him. This violation is about to become a criminal offence. The Chamber is, of course, and will be, informed about the main points through the six-monthly progress notes, which my predecessor sent and I will send. Mrs Berndsen asked about the relevance of imposing an administrative ban in relation to a statement of conduct (vog). A civil administrative ban shall not be taken into account when issuing a declaration of conduct. A statement of behaviour is a criminal record. Judgments for offences related to bankruptcy fraud may therefore be relevant for the issue of a vog. It is obvious that when they are issued they will look not only at the criminal convictions but also at the new ones, which are at issue here, and then in relation to the position that someone wants to hold with that vog. Ms Berndsen asked whether the judge-supervised commissioner had sufficient opportunity to supervise the exercise of this new jurisdiction of the curator. The answer to that is yes. This falls under the ordinary supervision of Article 69 of the Bankruptcy Act. On the basis of that article, the judge-supervise the curator's activities. Nor am I aware of any complaints from judge directors about the way in which supervision is carried out. I do know the opposite from my past, namely that curators sometimes felt that they had to explain very complicated why they wanted something if they had come up with a very nice plan, but then the judge-in-chief felt that it was not in the interest of creditors. Mrs Berndsen also asked a question about actual disadvantage in relation to criminality and prosecution. In Articles 340 to 344 of the Code of Criminal Law, the actual disadvantage of a creditor is a condition. This is a disadvantage in whatever form and height of one or more creditors, which must have taken place at any time. Moreover, that disadvantage does not have to be irreparable. So you're getting over the threshold pretty soon. My experience is that in almost all bankruptcies there can be such a disadvantage. Let me be clear: the existence of damage caused by bankruptcy is also the starting point for a criminal investigation and the capacity of the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office. Mr Recourt asked about the central shareholder register which he himself brought to the attention of the cabinet. In the debate on fraud on 8 April last. I have undertaken to inform the Chamber before the summer recess by letter of the state of play. I will shortly send that letter to the Chamber, also on behalf of the directors of Finance and Economic Affairs. I'm sorry I haven't been able to do that before. I will not anticipate the contents of that letter. I will send that letter to the Chamber as soon as possible. Mr Recourt asked whether the Public Prosecutor's Office would be better placed to impose a criminal-law ban than to seek a civil-law administrative ban. In my view, both instruments are complementary to each other. I really like the fact that the D.A.'s office has both instruments. The civil-law ban has a preventive basis. That is really based on the idea that someone should be prevented from getting back into the position of doing the same in the future. A criminal prosecution for bankruptcy fraud, on the other hand, is intended to punish. In the context of that punishment, the imposition of a professional ban as an additional penalty is possible. That's a trade-off the D.A. can make. The additional functioning of the civil administrative ban is mainly the possibility, if there is no criminal prosecution for fraud, to ensure that drivers involved in fraudulent acts are excluded from official functions through the Trade Register. It will often be a question of identifying situations in which either the application of an administrative ban or the imposition of a criminal ban is at issue. The Public Prosecutor's Office can use both instruments and will be guided by the specific needs of the particular situation and the most effective way to act against fraudsters. Mr Recourt also asked: if you see the risk in the Netherlands that you can get a ban on administration or be convicted of criminal offences, can you use foreign legal entities to reduce that risk? I'm not ruling that out. Mr Recourt knows, I think, as well as I do that the Delaware Incorporated has been very popular for some time and that sometimes companies on virgin islands, literally and figuratively, are also used to cover up the origins of certain companies. So you can never rule that out, because in many countries company law is not as focused on preventing fraud as Dutch legislation is now going to be. However, if a foreign legal person is to be able to establish himself in the Netherlands, he will still have to register in the Trade Register. This can be refused if it appears that the driver concerned already has an administrative ban in the Netherlands. In addition, a person who is registered abroad as a director of that legal person may be regarded as a factual manager of a Dutch company. That can therefore be criminally liable in accordance with the legislation we now have. It is clear that there are certain cross-border aspects inherent in the administrative ban. The European Commission has made a firm commitment to report on this aspect before 1 January 2016, including on the cross-border aspects of administrative liability. On the basis of the results of the European Commission's report, we will have to consider whether European action is necessary and desirable. One thing is certain: it will never be possible for Dutch legislation to fix the mistakes made in foreign trade registers, however much we may wish to.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u31	Thank you for this also being a focus of attention in Europe. I still have one more question. It is not a question of establishing a foreign legal person but of making a foreign legal person the director of a Dutch legal person. Do the same safeguards apply? Ultimately, it's about getting the ultimate owner, the owner behind possibly a whole zipper of legal persons, in the picture. Is that guaranteed when you're just a driver?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u32	If that foreign legal person is the director of a legal person established in the Netherlands, the administrative actions will eventually have to be carried out by a physical person. Otherwise, the system won't work. That physical person may be criminally liable for the actual management actions he carries out in the Netherlands on behalf of that foreign legal person. Then he can also get a ban on administration for the future, so that he himself can no longer act in that role. However, he may be prosecuted under criminal law for acts which are punishable by criminal law, as the factual manager of that Dutch legal person whose foreign legal person was the director.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u33	I understand the Minister, but I am asking the question when I realize that this is unsolvable. If you appoint an intermediary, for example by making your little brother a director and being a 100% shareholder of that foreign legal entity, you stay out of the picture. I realize out loud thinking that there is no solution to this either, not even within Dutch law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u34	That brother is actually the cat catcher. I know by now that not all cat catchers are part of the crime, but sometimes they themselves can be victims of a criminal. If that brother doesn't actually conduct management actions, but if they are carried out by that other brother, who is not registered, then the other brother, the criminal, is still liable for the actions he commits, because he is actually the supervisor in the Netherlands. I'm gonna take a look at my officials. In my view, therefore, an administrative ban could be imposed on that factual manager for the future. My gaze has taught me that this is the case. Thank you for allowing me to get insights through looking at my officials. This is such a nice room, from this position. Mr Recourt also asked about a flash failure. What is the boundary between unreasonable actions and permissible restructuring? Let me point out, in my own experience, that the interests of creditors, of workers and therefore of society in the event of bankruptcy were not served by the way in which we deal with that system. That is why the pre-pack bill that we will soon be discussing in the Chamber is so important. In many cases, it is precisely in the interest of creditors and staff that the bankruptcy is resolved as quickly as possible. I give a very simple example from my own experience of a shop that is part of a chain. In the event of bankruptcy, the shop is closed by default. The store's closing. We need to look at what's going on. When the barrel's out, you can actually close the store. After a few days, everyone's already on their way to the competition. In other words, it is very important for Dutch industry, but also for staff and creditors, that pre-packs are possible and that there are opportunities for mutual agreements to prevent bankruptcy. All these measures must be there. At the same time, precisely that interest is a reason for taking advantage of the systems we are developing for that purpose, and Mr Recourt is quite right to do so. The final review will have to be carried out in accordance with the standards laid down in bankruptcy law and, as a consequence, with the criminal offences in the Criminal Code. If there is fraudulent action, it is clear that there is no permissible restructuring operation. As a test criterion for, for example, the disposal of resources or excessive expenditure, it must be totally unreasonable. In the context of an undertaking, the activity must not have served a real economic purpose. Inexplicable actions must also be taken from the point of view of good entrepreneurship. Allowing a legal person to ploof by taking out all the assets in one go A client of mine experienced this clearly unacceptable, because this has no purpose for a reorganisation. Nor was this intended to allow the company to continue in the future. Mr Recourt asked whether it was also stressed that it was inappropriate to withdraw capital from a company shortly before bankruptcy. Let me make that clear here: yes, that is unacceptable. This idea is also the basis of the proposals we are discussing today. The other parts of the review programme are also constantly stressed in this respect. We shall continue to do so. Moreover, I expect that the legislative proposal will also have a preventive effect on the intelligent fraudsters, who are now deliberately using the loopholes in the law. They will have to take much more account of the serious criminal and civil consequences of their actions than at present. Mr Van Wijngaarden has asked whether I can promise that someone will be removed from the register within one working day after the end of the administrative ban. That is a bit the counterpart to Mr Oskam's question: can we not let someone sit in it for life? I suggest that they hold a further debate on this matter. Not here, but afterwards. However, I am happy to make that commitment, because it also follows from the law. The administrative prohibition shall be publicly registered for the duration for which it has been imposed. Registration will therefore have to be terminated immediately. I will therefore involve the College on personal data protection, because it will look into that. Mr Van Wijngaarden asked another question in that context. I already indicated that a concern could be that the names of people with a ban on administration would also end up on the digital highway. It goes without saying that the register will be set up very carefully, but I cannot help the fact that people in the digital domain make information available and keep it out of the register. In fact, this is conceivable in any register. This can already be done at all registers. Mr Van Wijngaarden was right to point out that it is then up to the person concerned to take action. One of these possibilities is, of course, to make a request for removal from social media or search engines if someone still suffers from this after the end of an administrative ban. I have the impression that this is getting more and more familiar. I note that this phenomenon is widely discussed at European level in the framework of the Data Protection Directive. Mr Van Wijngaarden also asked what criteria a curator should adhere to in order to be able to apply to the judge-supervisor for an administrative ban. That is in the preliminary stage, in which the curator makes that request to the judge commissioner. In my opinion, three grounds of Article 106a of the Bankruptcy Act should be considered above all: the directors' liability, the serious fraudulent behaviour and serious opposition of the curator. I also recognize that this last event is taking place from my practice. It is important that this is also a reason to be able to impose an administrative ban. The curator must be helped effectively, actively and efficiently in his important task. Then it costs the least and can work as quickly as necessary to restore the company, or take further steps towards the drivers involved. It's up to the curator to make this plausible to the judge commissioner. Furthermore, in short, the driver must face a serious personal complaint and there must be a significant disadvantage for creditors or the settlement of property. The curator must state himself whether he has made a reasonable consideration of this. Then it's up to the judge commissioner to check this out. The Judge Commissioner will carry out that review on the basis of these factors. Mr Van Wijngaarden asked about this. In addition, the judge will assess whether the balance of interests has been carefully weighed. Moreover, this is a marginal review, in the sense of: could the curator reasonably come to his request? In fact, the final judgment of an application for an administrative ban is a matter for the courts. The threshold for initiating proceedings is, of course, not so high, because it is ultimately up to the court itself to decide whether or not to grant an advanced administrative ban. This seems to me to be a typical issue on which the association of curators INSOLAD should have a good discussion with the consultative body of the judges, the Recofa. They could make very good tailor-made arrangements with each other. Mr Van Wijngaarden asked how we would prevent the curator from seeking lightly information from third companies. For information, of course, he first looks at the company for which he was appointed. That goes without saying. That's where the curator's investigation will begin. When you read a few bankruptcy reports, you see that in a number of cases the curator indicates that he has not been able to find any information there. So it's a logical step for a curator to look further. One of the logical places for that is the bank, although that is very annoying for banks. Banks generally have a lot of information because they are legally obliged to do so. In the meantime, however, the curator has to answer to what he spends his time with, because the judge-supervisor also looks at the curator's time spent. In addition, the curator is of course subject to disciplinary law and supervision, because curators are also always lawyers. Mr Van Wijngaarden asked about the relationship between the civil ban and the criminal ban. I have already shown that they have an additional effect on each other. Besides, one thing doesn't rule out the other. Is the Minister prepared to make a legal assessment after five years? Can this include the relationship in practice between the civil ban and the criminal ban on administration? These were also questions from Mr Van Wijngaarden. A legislative review seems particularly useful to me, because with the administrative ban we are introducing a quite new one and, I might add, an exciting instrument for the curator and the Public Prosecutor in the fight against bankruptcy fraud. I think it is a good thing that we include the five-year period, which seems to me to be quite reasonable. Then it is also very good to compare the difference between the criminal administrative ban and the civil administrative ban and to assess the relationship. That is why I will be happy to take this point into account in the evaluation which I undertake to Mr Van Wijngaard and thus to the Chamber. Mrs Helder of the PVV Group asked whether judges would make a great deal of use of the possibility of imposing an administrative ban. Experience has shown that, where there is a power, judges use it if they see reason to do so. Projects such as fraud-speakers, where judges are part of, help to provide them with the right information. There is, of course, an excellent interaction between the curators, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the judges. The evaluation, and perhaps also the interim fraud monitor, will show to what extent this leads to success. Mrs Berndsen asked me if I wanted to respond to the recommendation of the General Court to record the number and size in order to measure the effectiveness of the approach. The cabinet uses state-wide risk analyses and profiles. Fraud is seen as part of the national threat picture, which is drawn up every four years. In addition, there is a fraud monitor in development. Mrs Berndsen asked for this earlier. All this leads to an assessment of the effectiveness of measures, because in my opinion the single sum of cases of fraud is not enough. If we report, we will do so in response to the result. Mrs Helder has tabled an amendment proposing that the administrative ban be imposed automatically. Why do we not follow the German example on this point, she asks? I must congratulate Mrs Helder once again on her thoroughness. Here too you think at first sight: gosh, that's actually really good, because then we'll be off in one go. However, with Mr Recourt and Mr Van Wijngaarden I note that I also attach great importance to the judicial test. That test must be taken in freedom. A fine example of that is that client I was just talking about. He was a cat catcher and would in principle be eligible for a number of violent measures. If this had to be imposed by law, it would of course have happened. But with all due respect, this person would have been exactly the wrong person, because he himself was a victim, but had to be seen as a cat catcher. We must not remove the jurisdiction of the court and the discretion of the judge to take the appropriate action in an individual case. The ECHR and the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union also demand a fair balance between general and individual interests. It is above all the judge who has to defend these interests. I appreciate and respect Mrs Helder's intransigence, but I must advise against the amendment. There were two more questions to which I can answer in the meantime.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u35	You have Mrs Gesthuizen's amendment (33994, No. 7) have not yet been given an opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u36	I have just received the text, but it is a little too long to be able to respond to the amendment now. I'll do that in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u37	I would like to see an exchange of views on an amendment in the second period. The amendment was tabled last night.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u38	I can see, by the way, that it has received the same number as the amendment...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u39	It concerns the other bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u40	Excuse me. I see it. Mrs Gesthuizen's amendment amends Article 344a. In paragraphs 1 and 3, "two years" is replaced by "four years." I believe that this satisfies what Mrs Gesthuizen also said in her introductory speech. I leave the opinion on the amendment to the Chamber. Mrs Gesthuizen asked, in response to the figures from Radar, which I mentioned, whether this is about bankruptcy fraud. No, those numbers are about all the suspicious cases. The number of real bankruptcy fraud cases is smaller. This will also be reflected in the promised WODC research. I will ensure that this is addressed in the question so that Mrs Gesthuizen is satisfied in her need for information. Mr. Oskam asked what would happen if the D.A. didn't act on a request for a restraining order. Is that gonna stop with the D.A.? Yeah, that decision's up to the state's attorney's office. There is therefore no action under Article 12 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. This applies to all the civil jurisdictions of the Public Prosecutor's Office. We are continuing this line, if only for reasons of legal unity. I have answered all the questions of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u41	Thank you very much. I propose that we proceed immediately with the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u42	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister very much for his comprehensive reply. I am, of course, very pleased with the Minister's "judgement chamber" on my amendment. It means that now all I have to do is convince my colleagues. That's what I'm gonna try to do. The bill states very clearly in all the members of Article 344a the word 'intentionally'. This means that it must be proved that someone deliberately did not surrender his administration, deliberately destroyed it, deliberately lost it, or deliberately carried out everything with it. Someone is, of course, doing so to ensure that there is no proof that there were no issues at the time of bankruptcy. That is where I see the need to table this amendment. It's easy to hide the fact that you cheated on bankruptcy by searching for your own books, crashing your computer, or ditching the whole thing. In such a case, bankruptcy fraud can no longer be proved, and that is why it is so important that it is a very serious offence to do so intentionally. It also includes an appropriate penalty to prevent a person from cheating on bankruptcy and then getting away with it on a bargain, with a lighter penalty, by looking for his administration. That is the idea behind this amendment. I really hope that the Chamber will take this offense very seriously and put a heavy penalty against it. The Minister and I do not entirely agree on one point, namely the question of where the police should land a possible investigation. The Minister says that the police are in principle equipped for this in all cases, that it should therefore also be able to be dealt with in the district and that it does not necessarily have to be arrested by the regional FinEC teams. I understand that reasoning and I understand it, but at the same time I see that it works differently in practice. In practice, you just see that not all police stations have the same expertise and know-how to deal with such notifications and declarations. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the detection of bankruptcy fraud by police districts is arrested instead of by regional FinEC teams of the units;]] [[Whereas, however, districts lack the necessary knowledge and fraud cases must compete with commune offences;]] [[calls on the Government to make efforts to ensure that the detection of bankruptcy fraud will be picked up by the regional FinEC teams,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member of the Houses. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33994-8]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u43	Let me conclude by saying that I am pleased that I am unfortunately able to give many more examples to the people I mentioned as an example, to say that they can count on the warm attention of the Minister. I would also like to stress that we are far from done dealing with fraud. After all, there are still a lot of legislative proposals to be made. I hope to be able to answer people in the future that it has been done quickly with fraudsters. Now, as Mr Recourt said, they still have a great chance of getting away with it, because the chances of getting caught are too low and fraudsters are also released with a laugh of punishment if they are caught.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u44	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his prompt and comprehensive response. One of my questions is still open. I talked about measuring and knowing, because in order to tackle bankruptcy fraud properly, it is important to know what we are talking about. We know how many cases with a fee above €100.00 are investigated by the FIOD. But I would also like to know about things below €100,000. Perhaps the Minister could answer that question. I'm struggling a little bit with an omission anyway. We are making this legislation to protect the business market. We want transparency and fraudsters to stay out of the way for a while with this ban on administration. After that everyone can start a fresh start. The Minister said about this ban, which is felt to be some sort of punishment, that someone can just move on afterwards. He or she will be removed from the Trade Register and no one will ever find out about it. I'm having a bit of a problem with that. People who have done something like this must be given a new opportunity and they must be able to get back on board, but the business world must of course know who they are dealing with. So one has to be able to consider oneself whether one wants to do business with such a company or not. This would be possible, for example, by making it clear in the Trade Register that the punishment is over, but that someone has had such a ban on administration. Of course, you can look at it in a different way. So you can look at how it goes in criminal law for someone who commits a Community crime. Someone's committing a burglary or a murder or whatever. That person's punishment is over and he's getting out. If such a person then wishes to work or enter into a contractual obligation, he often needs an explanation of his behaviour. Then it becomes known and people can also decide not to employ that person or not to do business with him. It is of a different order, but I can imagine that a provision will be made for this. I know that Mrs Berndsen is coming up with a slightly different proposal, that this line also represents a little bit. I shall therefore table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas administrative prohibitions imposed under civil law are now registered in the Trade Register and are thus transparent;]] [[Whereas access to information may be useful or a person has been subject to an administrative ban in the past;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that in the establishment of the Trade Register, in addition to access to current prohibitions, information on administrative prohibitions which have been terminated can also be consulted,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Oskam. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34011-8]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u45	I heard Mr Oskam refer to the statement on behaviour. Now the explanation of behavior has a four-year look-back period, with the exception of sex cases. From Mr Oskam's motion, I understand that looking back must last forever. So I don't understand the equation. Does Mr. Oskam want to join the vog or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u46	Let me give you an example. When the sentence is over, it will still be possible to assess whether it concerns someone with a criminal background. In the business market, it is a good thing that people who cheat can get back on board after they've been punished. However, someone who wants to do business with such a company must be able to see: in the past, that person has not always been as clean on the bones. Then people can make their own decision whether or not they want to. It doesn't necessarily have to be a dog. I'm looking for the way it's handled in other jurisdictions. As far as I'm concerned, it doesn't have to be infinite; I wouldn't agree with that either. But perhaps it can be linked to a time limit that is slightly longer than the time limit of the administrative ban.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u47	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for his reply. I do have one more question. In his reply to the statement of conduct, the Minister indicated that a civil administrative ban would not be included in the judicial documentation register. If the Trade Register records this but is hardly consulted, it looks like a gap. So I ask the Minister whether he would like to explore the way in which this gap can be resolved in a way that is easily accessible. It cannot be the case that a person is subject to a civil administrative ban and can then, for example, become a supervisor in a public institution in a very easy way. I see the Minister shaking no. I hope to hear from him how he thinks he can arrange that. Nevertheless, I would like to table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that directors may be subject to a civil administrative ban in the event of bankruptcy fraud;]] [[Whereas it is important for the effectiveness of an administrative ban that interested parties should be able to learn about it in good time so that they can prevent the entry of a director with an administrative ban in supervisory boards and supervisory boards;]] [[Whereas, in addition to the Public Trade Register, a statement of conduct may also contribute to the prohibition of directors with an administrative ban;]] [[calls on the Government to promote a standard statement on behaviour when a Commissioner or supervisor wishes to join a Management Board or a Supervisory Board,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Berndsen-Jansen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34011-9]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u48	Mr. Chairman. I have a very short second term. I have been persuaded by Mrs Gesthuizen and her amendment, in particular by the argument that it would be a reward to make your administration untraceable, because you will be faced with a lower penalty limit. I found that convincing and I still do. I still have doubts about Mrs Gesthuizen's motion. I would like to hear the Minister's response to this, because he said that it is not always the specialised teams, but also the local teams. I can follow all that, if I didn't have someone on the phone this week who said: I came up with a fraud case with the police in The Hague and I wasn't even allowed to report it. It was said that this is a civil matter and that you shouldn't be in the police for that. As long as that is the case, I am concerned about the practice. There are all kinds of laws in force, but if you can't even take the first step, nothing happens. I hope the Minister has a satisfactory answer to that. I would like to thank him and all those involved. It's two fine legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u49	Mr. Chairman. I too would like to thank the Minister very much for his reply and for the good exchange of views we had on a proposal on which we are all in agreement. We are also aware of the great responsibility we place here with the curator and the judge commissioner. I welcome the commitment on that point. I would also like to await the Minister's pre-opinions on the various motions before I make a judgment on them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u50	I do not think I have heard it from Mr Van Wijngaarden in the first place and therefore ask him now. How will he advise his group to vote on the amendment I tabled?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u51	In view of the answer given by the Minister and the support given by Mrs Gesthuizen, I have a positive attitude towards that amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u52	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for the first-term answers. I am not going to repeat the reasons why my group believes that the amendment is justified. There were four of these, and I mentioned them. Why can it be done in Germany? They also attach importance to this type of problem and the judicial test. The judicial test is actually being put up as a barrier. I do not see that and refer to the grounds in the proposed article of law. The following is a list of cases where a civil administrative ban is possible. My group believes that this is automatic. It is stated that the judgment rendered irrevocable permits him to be liable for his acts or omissions in relation to that legal person, as referred to in the Articles............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... This is certainly not light-hearted and a judge has already looked into it. The other ground is if the driver deliberately committed, authorised or allowed........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ That's not just anything. In the case of acts resulting from disadvantage, such acts shall be set aside by the court by final decision. The judge has already looked at this and so there is no lightness. The last point I would like to mention is that, despite a request from the curator, the driver in question has been seriously flawed. You know very well what you're doing and then you know that the sword of Damocles is hanging over your head. As far as my group is concerned, it may fall. We shall call that a matter of law. Perhaps the Minister will go a little further than "sniffiness." I am, of course, pleased with that, but I would prefer my amendment to get "judgement chamber" with it. Anyway, hope brings life. I've just given you a more detailed explanation. I believe that the Minister has not answered the question of how the willingness to report to the curators increases. I'd love to hear that. Will the Minister take measures, and if so what, which increases the willingness to report to curators?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u53	This brings to an end the second term on the part of the Chamber. The Minister indicated that he could respond immediately to the outstanding questions and to the motions tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u54	Mr. Chairman. I would once again like to thank the Members of your Chamber for their comments. I am pleased to note that at the end of this rather long, but very substantive and sound debate, these two legislative proposals have great support in your Chamber. This will enable us to take the much-needed steps to tackle bankruptcy fraud effectively. Mrs Gesthuizen has tabled a motion which, despite my efforts to prevent her from doing so, still proposes that the regional FinEC teams should be entrusted with the detection of bankruptcy fraud. I have a number of reasons to discourage this motion. I would also like to answer Mr Recourt's supplementary question. I do not think it is appropriate for the Chamber, in consultation with the government, to determine where the detection of bankruptcy fraud should be arrested. That would be a crossing of the police law system. Nor would it be understood by the local authority, the local triangle, which, as I know in the context of the re-evaluation of the National Police, attaches enormous importance to the freedom to determine independently who takes up which priority and when. In addition, it is very important that the base detective teams are able to tackle fraud. The handling of simple fraud should be carried out on the simple basis. They can use the financial expertise of the FinEC teams, financial specialists or, as far as I am concerned, the FIOD. At the moment when we find that fraud needs to be tackled regionally, regardless of the crossing of our system, we are losing the freedom to let things be done where it is most practical. That is why local authority must ultimately be leading. I must therefore discourage the motion. Mr Recourt then asks how we can ensure that the report can be made. That is not clear on this motion, but it is a valid point. I have already raised the same point in the case of internal summits, where the same idea sometimes arises. I say to Mr Recourt that I will actively bring this point to the attention of the National Police in the context of the implementation of these legislative proposals. I have recently experienced in my surroundings that someone was actually sent away when there was a scam. However, that does not alter the fact that I must discourage Mrs Gesthuizen's motion, no matter how well it is intended. Mr Oskam once again pleads, now by means of a motion, for a life-long ban on administration. The duration of an administrative ban is five years, because in those five years it is not legally possible to become a director of a Dutch company. His suggestion is: let it be visible that that ban was ever imposed; then you have the opportunity to see it later. I don't think that's proportionate, given our system. I have already said this in the previous debate I had with Mr Oskam on this subject. Moreover, it is not necessary because bankruptcy of companies is consultable. Every company that hires a person has the possibility to look into what happened to a company before in the Commercial Register and the bankruptcy register. Then you can see that that company went bankrupt and who the directors were, because that remains consultable. Then you can ask the person concerned from your own responsibility: hey, crazy, you have been involved in one, maybe two or maybe three bankruptcies; explain how that is. The adoption of Mr Oskam's motion would result in us taking away that responsibility, while there is a very simple way of establishing it. The information on bankruptcy and on directors is now also available in the Trade Register and the bankruptcy register. I do not see the need for the motion either. That's why I won't advise her.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u55	That kite doesn't go completely on, because if a company is bankrupt and the driver gets a ban, you can go to the new company where he works, but you don't get that information. I was just triggered by the remark that it was my intention to do that registration for life. In response to an interruption by Mr Recourt, I indicated that it was a struggle for me. I am open to it, but at least that registration must take longer than the administrative ban. It could be seven years, but it could be ten. Does that open up to the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u56	No, because we also discussed this very carefully in the written preparation. We have also looked closely at the exact nature of the administrative ban. The ban on civil law also does not create problems with the animal, but is a preventive measure. I will say a few words about this to Mrs Berndsen in a moment. This preventive measure prevents a person from exercising administrative or supervisory functions for a longer period of up to five years. That is different in criminal law, because that is where it will be part of the criminal record and for that reason it will be involved in a vog. Then a crime has been committed and it is appropriate that it should be done that way. As far as that goes, I don't see any extra space. Moreover, the College would also conclude that the fact that the measures were taken would be disproportionate, even after or regardless of Mr Oskam's comments. It is mainly in the five-year preventive measure in which you cannot be a director or a Commissioner anyway. In addition, it is indeed visible in the Commercial Register and bankruptcy register, contrary to what Mr Oskam seemed to have just thought, whether someone has previously been the director of companies and how those companies have ended. If there has been bankruptcy, bankruptcy reports can also be requested. They are public and they are usually even on all curators' websites. Then you can do your research. So it's not necessary at all. If you want to know if someone has been involved and fraudulently involved in bankruptcy, it is very easy to investigate that way. So I don't see the need, but I don't think it's proportionate either. I maintain my judgment on the motion. Mr Oskam asked about things below €100,000. According to the Guidelines, simple bankruptcy fraud is being arrested by the police. They are addressed thematically, for example in the pilot of the Public Prosecutor's Office in The Hague. Several small cases together can also qualify for research by the FIOD. So we also made sure that the FIOD research can be done if you do several smaller things. As regards Mrs Berndsen's motion on item No. 9 First of all, I would like to say that I think it is wise for a company to ask for a vote from a new director, as I see it in many areas. If a person does not receive that statement of conduct, criminal acts are by definition involved. Then someone can still be extremely qualified as a board member, but then the company has to start talking to someone like that to ask what is going on and what the problem is. In her motion, Mrs Berndsen asks whether I, as Minister for Security and Justice, can promote the request for a vog by boards of directors or supervisory boards. With all due respect, I wouldn't know how. I think it is very sensible for companies to carry out careful investigations when a driver is appointed, as Mr Oskam has indicated, and I think it would be wise for you to ask for an explanation of a driver's behaviour. I note that this has now been recorded in the Acts. However, I do not know how I, as Minister of Security and Justice, should communicate with the boards of directors and supervisory boards and therefore I do not know how to promote this. It also seems to me to be the responsibility of the business community itself. If Mrs Berndsen does not mind, I would rather concentrate my efforts on tackling bankruptcy fraud and its prevention than in an information campaign to point out to companies within their own responsibilities how they can best implement that responsibility. Most companies are large enough to make that trade-off independent. For that reason... I'll wait until Mrs. Berndsen...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u57	I just wanted to let you finish!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u58	Thank you. I'm done.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u59	But I didn't hear the point so clearly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u60	I am also struggling with it, and I shall be honest with you, but it is not just about companies. These proposals also apply to foundations and associations. There is a bit of my concern, because they are not familiar with Trade Registers, to put it simply. How can one promote that it is known that the fact that a person who has been given an administrative ban has been involved in bankruptcy and that at the very least it is necessary to consider whether or not someone could become a supervisor at some institution? That's where I care.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u61	I understand Mrs Berndsen's concern, but also a foundation or association is a legal person and is required to be registered in the Trade Register. So he knows very well what a Trade Register is. Each director who becomes a member of a Supervisory Board shall register in the Trade Register and must sign for it. I know that very well, because until recently I had some of those kinds of functions. I am prepared to present this point in the National Platform Combating Crime, which I will soon be conducting discussions with, to advise the business community and ask: gosh, how could you act in this? I might see a role for VNO-NCW and SME-Netherlands in this. I would like to do that, but if Mrs Berndsen puts the motion to the vote, I would advise against her, because I really want to put my energy into tackling bankruptcy fraud and not into information activities.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u62	I'd like to do that, but I'd like the Minister to report back to the Chamber on what that turned out to be. This will probably result in an oil spill, as this will include, for example, the national associations of supervisors in health care and education. This should be widely known, but VNO-NCW may also be a platform for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u63	Otherwise, following the adoption of these legislative proposals, you might be able to draw attention to this in other areas. In any case, I would like to thank Mrs Berndsen for her willingness not to vote on the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u64	The chairman wants to hear from me that I withdraw my motion. Here's to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u65	Since the Berndsen-Jansen motion (No ) has been withdrawn, has ceased to be the subject of a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u66	Then I must once again congratulate Mrs Helder on the ingenious way in which she has tried to save her amendment from a possible downfall. Despite the fact that she has done so with a great deal of charm and knowledge of the subject, I have to say that the starting point that the judge ultimately judges is more important than the thinking that Mrs Helder puts into it. That is why I maintain my view that her amendment is not recommended. Mr President, thank you very much. I am very pleased that these two important legislative proposals have been dealt with in such a thorough manner in your Chamber. I am convinced that, if these legislative proposals are adopted, with or without Mrs Gesthuizen's amendments, we have taken an important and much-needed step together in effectively tackling bankruptcy fraud.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u67	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u68	Vote on the amendments, the legislative proposal and the motions tabled will take place next Tuesday.
