ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-3.u1	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to Members for giving me the opportunity to present myself orally to you as a candidate for the Presidency of your Chamber. I've got June 17th. I have written a letter stating that I would like to be eligible for the office of President of your Chamber. In my letter and in the accompanying curriculum vitae I hope to have shown that I meet the profile you have created. Two years ago, on 2 July 2013, I also had the opportunity to explain my candidacy for the chair of the First Chamber orally. I indicated at that time what the Members of me, if I had been elected President, could expect. I'll call that brief. The commitment to ensure, from an entirely independent position, that the legislative process is flawless in plenary debates, while at the same time giving Members sufficient room for the content of the debate, in order to ensure that members can challenge directors and each other to a real dialogue, to sharp arguments, with the aim of properly balancing the acceptability of legislative proposals. Respect for the Chamber as an institution, as an important part of our parliamentary democracy, respect for members, respect for the official organisation and respect for persons and organisations outside the Chamber. The commitment to publicise the work and working methods of the Chamber as much as possible, the commitment to represent the Chamber as effectively as possible in the Netherlands and abroad, the commitment to counter speculation in advance or a legislative proposal whether or not it passes through the Chamber, and to highlight the fact that the Chamber makes its own assessment of legislative proposals on the basis of three criteria: legality, feasibility and enforcement, with the result that a legislative proposal can work differently in terms of voting behaviour than in the Second Chamber. Over the past two years, I have worked with great conviction, energy and also pleasure to meet those expectations. You can expect the same commitment, the same respect and the same enthusiasm from me. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have written to you and I repeat: I would be honored to be your President.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. The forms were clearly filled out, there were no items that shouldn't be on them. A total of 70 votes were cast, of which 70 on Mrs Ankie Broekers-Knol, 0 blank and 0 invalid. With this communication I end our work.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-eerstekamer-3.u3	The agenda for the sitting now reads: 'President Mrs Broekers-Knol: speech'. I don't intend to do that too much. The only thing I want to say is that I am incredibly grateful to you all for having given me such great confidence in this presidency over the next four years. That really gives me a lot of support. I will do my utmost to meet your expectations.
