ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u1	Madam President. There's been a major theft of SIM keys. That reminds me of a scene from a very current film called Kingsman. But unfortunately, it's harsh reality. Research by The Intercept would show that the British and American secret services have broken into the internal computer system of Gemalto, a SIM card company based in the Netherlands. They would have intercepted and stolen tons of SIM cards and associated digital keys with that burglary without anyone knowing. With those keys in hand, it's a piece of cake to listen to conversations from millions of people and read texts and e-mails. This is very useful for the secret service, because he does not have to ask for the consent of telecoms providers or to take national laws or regulations into account. After all, whoever has the key to the door can break in without trace. This puts the privacy of millions of Dutch people at risk, including state security. Who knows whose calls are being bugged? To this day, no one can say it. This raises the following questions for the D66 Group. Did the American and British secret services, according to the knowledge this minister has, break into Gemalto? When did the minister or his service, the AIVD, know about this possible hack? Or has it happened without his knowledge? Is it true that the British secret service has admitted this theft and that it claims that this would fit within the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u2	Madam President. I understand there's unrest and concern about this. I'll try to answer as completely as possible. By the way, of course, I do do so within the legal limits. I cannot talk publicly about the level of knowledge of the service and how it works. A notice has indeed been published on the website of The Intercept stating that the production facilities of the company Gemalto, which are not located in the Netherlands, would have been hacked. As I understand it, the work and the damage of it are currently being inventoried by that company. It is reported that tomorrow there will be a press conference in Paris, where the company will announce the damage and the damage in its assessment. Right now, I can neither confirm nor deny the message myself. What I can do is point out that the Dutch Intelligence and Security Services Act defines the computer hack in Article 24 as a break-in in an automated system. That seems very important to me in this context. It is also an answer to Mr Schouw's question. Suppose there is a break-in where people have said: let's try to find out all the key codes with the aim that it might be useful to collect that information at some point in the future. For the Dutch law, this would not meet the criterion of necessity, proportionality and subsidiarity and would therefore not be allowed. That means the AIVD wouldn't do this. It also means that the AIVD would not participate in it, not even through what is referred to as a "U-turn construction," in which another service does it and reconnects information. Then the question remains whether services from other countries also comply with Dutch law. To this end, we have counterintelligence activities. In doing so, we can see whether other services here in the Netherlands are doing things that are not allowed. If so, action will always be taken. They may mean that a service is called upon and then stopped, but these measures can also go much further. They can sometimes have consequences for cooperation, but they can also lead to the expulsion of diplomats who use their diplomatic status for espionage activities and that sort of thing. We do not allow other services here in the Netherlands to engage in activities that are not allowed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u3	I'll let the Minister's answer work on me. The Minister says a few things. He can neither confirm nor deny the message. It remains a bit in the air or the British and American secret services that have or have not stolen SIM card data. The Minister also says that I am pleased in itself that, once this has happened, the Dutch law does not allow it. If it happened, it happened illegally. I would also point out from the Minister's reaction that the AIVD does do counter-espionage but in any case has not noticed this. That is why I have two more questions for the Minister. In the media last Friday, a message from the English secret service that this is being done and that it is being confirmed. Is that correct and what action has the Minister taken since last Thursday to bring this up? What is the Minister doing, this cabinet, to remove the concerns among Dutch telephone users as well? Has there been consultation with providers or is that still going to happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u4	I cannot, as I have said, confirm or deny the correctness of this message. I would add: that is in public. There are always appropriate channels to share information that I access to the level of knowledge of the service, but I am not free to share that information in public here. Mr Schouw correctly interprets my remark from just now. If the message is correct, it falls outside the criteria that would allow the Dutch law to do so. Then it's not allowed. Mr Schouw's conclusion that it has not been noted, I leave it to him, because I do not go into the level of knowledge of the service. I would like to share the actions that the service takes in the direction of other services through the confidential channels with the House of Representatives. As far as concerns are concerned, I can imagine that we will wait and see what the company reports tomorrow in Paris about the damage.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u5	I'm gonna stand here feeling really unsatisfying. I'm asking you for the third time now. The British secret service has confirmed that these things are being done and that this has been done. The Dutch government is waiting for a press conference by Gemalto. Is it not wise to call on the American and English ambassadors this afternoon to ask whether the message is correct that the British and American secret services are stealing when it comes to SIM card data? Surely there is a responsibility in this regard on the board of this cabinet? The cabinet should guarantee the privacy of everyone here in the Netherlands with a mobile phone, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u6	I understand Mr Schouw's unsatisfactory feeling and I share it. As is often the case, it is uncomfortable not to be able to share all information in public, as is the information about contacts between the Dutch service and other services. I would like to share the information on what may or may not have been exchanged in that context with the Chamber but not here in public at Question Time. In that respect, I must abide by the rules of the game. This also applies to contacting or not with other countries. I cannot now talk about the conclusions in this regard. I realize, however, that this is unsatisfactory.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u7	If that burglary has been committed, and it is likely that it has been committed, it is very serious. I have two questions about that. Has it been investigated whether criminal action can be taken? The parent company is based in the Netherlands and a burglary at the parent company is therefore criminally prosecutable in the Netherlands. Is it being investigated how the back door can be closed as quickly as possible and how possible safety leaks can be closed?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u8	Let me start with the second question. That is, of course, first of all to the company Gemalto. That company has a great interest in ensuring users that rear doors, if there are and were already, are closed. You saw all the securities on the stock market value. It seems to me that that is where the lead lies. The question of what can happen in justice is not strictly a question to me, but I will take that question with me to the Member of Justice. This is linked to the question of what the company itself thought would have been responsible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u9	This is yet another revelation, but certainly not the last unveiling. While we make tough demands on our secret services to deal properly with our citizens, the Americans and the English are doing everything they can with Dutch people and with Dutch data. I have two questions. When does the government stop looking away and shut up? When is the government seriously going to ask the Americans and the English for clarification and to ensure this afternoon that they know that we are not going to accept this? The second question, Mr President, is also for you: they also have the keys to Vodafone. We have Vodafone. Can the minister rule out that the Americans and the English have keys to our phone?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u10	There are a few assumptions, but let me respond specifically to the questions. I am not saying that I have not been in contact with fellow services on this issue. I am merely saying that I cannot speak about this in public, but of course I can speak to the Chamber on another occasion. Mr Van Raak spoke of "don't steal." I've rephrased it. I said: it is not acceptable for the Dutch cabinet to break the Dutch law when it comes to carrying out espionage activities on Dutch soil or on Dutch soil. That is the starting point. In any event, we shall take action. That's what I just said. As for Vodafone, it is not for me to give guarantees. I must point out, however, that this aspect has not yet been discussed, and that, if this message were correct, they might have gotten keys to decrypt conversations. But of course, you have to catch those conversations before you can decrypt them. The key alone is not a sufficient basis for listening to any phone calls. You also need to have access to that phone call.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u11	A year ago, we debated our cooperation with the NSA. That was a very intense debate. At that time, the Minister promised to talk to foreign services about morality and standards and values when it comes to the operation of the intelligence services. Does that conversation still take place and is the NSA being addressed on morals and something like privacy? Were these very worrying developments and this possible safety leak reason to have this conversation again?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u12	That conversation takes place all the time. It has also led to politically expressed views on the American side. I remember a speech made by President Obama six months ago, in which he said on a number of points what Mr Segers and I actually thought on previous occasions, namely that the balance between privacy and security had slipped through at the NSA. He also said that the fact that you could do things didn't mean you should or should do them. I had the feeling that President Obama's message was also clear. That conversation continues, by the way. We have continuous contact at service level and sometimes at political level. Finally, before a misunderstanding arises: my explanation of the message was that the lead for this activity was not with the NSA, but with GCHQ, the English service.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-24-tweedekamer-2.u13	Thank you for your answers and thanks for coming to the Chamber.
