ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u1	Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin by congratulating the senators Knapen and their first appearance in the First Chamber. Both gentlemen are not strangers to me. They have an impressive record and what they have put forward this afternoon is certainly an inspiration for the debate we are all having here in the First Chamber. I look forward to a fruitful debate with you, starting today, and, of course, with the other members of the Upper House. I would like to say to Mr Kox that it is indeed very important to have this debate here today. The Senate expresses its views on political association and economic integration between the European Union and three countries east of the Union. These are indeed relatively far-reaching agreements. The Dutch ratification sends an important message of support to Moldova, Georgia and Ukraine. I will mention the precise figures later, but a large part of the Member States have completed the ratification process prior to the Eastern Partnership Summit in Riga at the beginning of this month. The three countries themselves also attach great importance to the association agreements they have concluded with the Union. They have even declared them to guide economic, political and judicial reforms in their country. In signing these agreements, Moldova, Georgia and Ukraine have decided to transform into democratic social market economies, respecting and respecting human rights and the rule of law. These agreements, which require far-reaching reforms, are based on a transformative force. In this sense, these agreements are also important instruments for the Netherlands and the European Union, by which the neighbouring countries of the Union develop into stable and prosperous countries, with which it is good business. That's in our best interest, too. The chords have a lot of potential. This potential must be realised, but everyone here has already stressed that. Its implementation needs to be kept under strict control. First of all, on the question of the nature of the agreements. These agreements are part of the Dutch philosophy on the neighbourhood policy in general. They are more equal and some of you have said: no pride. They are also more political: they are about transformation processes, not just on the basis of a list from Brussels, but jointly agreed. We need civil society, society and citizens to see how this transformation can take shape from the sovereignty of these countries. It's also about alliances of security. A large number of questions have been asked about this and I will come back to the security policy and foreign policy framework in the light of the relationship with Russia. They are therefore far-reaching agreements. They are legally binding political agreements between the European Union and a third country. They lay down a contractual basis for the entire bilateral treaty relationship and cooperation. Indeed, they go beyond other political agreements of the European Union, I say to the PvdA Group, among other things, such as a partnership and cooperation agreement. They also contain trade provisions and other economic paragraphs. Maybe I could go into that economic point. It's only one part of it, of course. They are not traditional trade agreements, they are not limited to market access and tariff reductions. These agreements also provide for a far-reaching approximation to the standards and standards applicable in the European Union. In this Deep and Comprehensive Free Trade Area (DCFTA), the adoption of a larger part of the European Union acquis has already been decided. Free trade does not mean that the markets are thrown open at once when they are not ready. It does mean that these agreements can have a very positive effect; that is why they are happy to participate. New economic opportunities are being created, not only for investing in work here in the Netherlands, I say in the direction of the PVV Group, but also for how small and medium-sized enterprises can operate in the various countries that form part of these agreements. With the implementation of DCFTAs, I'm sorry, I think it's a terrible abbreviation, but I'm going to have to use it anyway. This is a gradual reduction or abolition of tariffs, sometimes after two or three or five years; I was asked a question about this. It is, of course, also about very gradual alignment with the rules of the European Union and the EU acquis. Such changes are being phased in. They must, of course, be manageable in terms of local employment and economic reforms. I will come back to the various countries later. Those countries get time, we don't go ice in one night. Nor will this be enforced in a way which is not consistent with a good rhythm for the countries concerned. In practice, it will be a major change for many companies and will entail costs. However, it is expected that this will work very positively on a number of points. I will come back to the issue of reforms in general. So it is a broad agreement that is not just about economics. It concerns the promotion of mutual understanding and dialogue, the ratification of shared values, democracy, human rights and the principles of international law as well as the fundamental principles of a free market economy. We consider standard political clauses to be important: essential elements such as human rights, good governance, weapons of mass destruction, the International Criminal Court, combating terrorism and combating the proliferation of small arms. I would now like to mention a number of elements of these agreements. These include cooperation in international fora, bilateral and sectoral cooperation in many areas and, of course, a consultation structure with regular meetings. I was also asked about the monitoring. This is, of course, important and should not be limited to one government monitoring another; that is not the plan either. It is about implementing far-reaching reforms, because they are not just standard reforms. It will happen in Georgia, Ukraine and Moldova in different ways and in its own rhythm. The Association Agreement is the framework and compliance with the agreements can be monitored by regular consultation. We have a so-called association agenda, in which the EU and the government concerned jointly discuss the short-term priorities, as well as the problems that exist. I say again that this is tailored to the situation per country and to the specific characteristics there. Georgia is a very different country from Moldova and is changing in a different way from Ukraine. There are joint association agendas for all three countries. There are all beautiful structures for this, such as the Association Council, a committee and all committees looking at it. That is also the message that has been expressed implicitly: let us make sure that not all of this is bureaucratic and let us make real progress on the change in the countries concerned. That is, in my view, the great challenge. In addition to a sub-committee on economic cooperation, there is also an important committee on justice, freedom and security. It talks about the fight against corruption, legal cooperation and the protection of human rights. In these fora, we can clearly state where additional matters are required. I have been asked whether this is a prelude to EU membership. It's not a pre-accession instrument. It should not be compared with the stabilisation and association agreements for the Western Balkans, which serve that purpose explicitly. It is not a pre-accession portal, nor is it the agreements concluded with these partners. This has been clearly reported to the governments on the ground. It's the outcome of the Riga Summit. It is true that there are different expectations about it, but this has been very clearly agreed in Riga in the way I have just said. This does not, of course, alter the fact that, on the basis of Article 49 of the EU Treaty, any European State which endorses the fundamental principles and is able to grant them can apply for EU membership, but that is really separate from these agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u2	I understand the Minister. In his reply, he states that it is only a theoretical possibility. Indeed, in principle, anyone who thinks they meet the criteria may apply. I pointed out in my term that although this is the perception in the Netherlands and some of the other Member States, it is very clear and not the least: Poroshenko and Jatsenjoek, to name just a few people in Ukraine, are communicating to the outside world: we are becoming members of NATO. In five years' time, Poroshenko said to the EU, two months ago, when there was a meeting in Kiev. In Moldova, we hear similar things. Moreover, I have said this, not only because Poland agrees with it, but also for more countries. I asked the Minister which countries do not agree with us that it is not a pre-accession, which does not share the view of the Dutch Government that it is purely a theoretical possibility, because they think it is possible. I call Romania and Poland. Can the Minister respond to that? I would be extremely sorry to have to deal with three countries later that say: yes, hello, it was very clear, we went that way and now we are not getting it. That creates frustration, and if we cannot use one thing in those three countries, then the Minister will be me, then it will be even more pent-up frustration, because we already have far too much of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u3	Sure, I think that's a risk, too. All Member States agree on this. The final declaration of the Eastern Partnership Summit makes no mistake about this either. The priority is to implement these agreements and there is no prospect of membership. That was also discussed with those countries. There were indeed different opinions about it. Such a summit is about something, namely about these kinds of questions. It is clear, however, that these discussions in those countries, perhaps also about that wish and the way in which it has been communicated in the countries, have been concluded at some point at the Riga Summit. There can really be no misunderstanding about this. We must also remember that it is not a moving train in this sense, apart from the perceptions of citizens. After the Riga Summit, I think it has been widely expressed in the media in the various countries. Moreover, moving from an association agreement to enlargement also requires a completely different process. It's really a completely different route you should be taking. The Council must decide on this unanimously. It certainly does not result automatically from the association agreements in any way. The Copenhagen criteria also have to do with internal capacity, transaction costs in a Europe of 28 and political support. There is clearly no such political support for the membership of these countries. Some individual countries may well agree that this should be the case. That's okay, too. I think that's very legitimate. This certainly applies to countries that are very close to the countries concerned. That has to do with all the risks of widening versus deepening. I believe that Mr Knapen spoke about this at the beginning of his speech. Let us be clear that there can be no misunderstanding about this after the Riga Summit, of course, apart from Article 49 of the EU Treaty. Each country can rely on this and then there is its own procedure related to the EU Treaty, unanimity, the Copenhagen criteria, etc. So that is separate from this important choice. It has been said that the fact that one can join, but not on the basis of these agreements, does not mean that one does not belong. One can make one's own choices, sovereign, to also have a close political and economic association with the European Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u4	The frustration can go both ways. These countries may be frustrated if they now get the idea that they can join on the basis of these agreements. There must be clarity about this and the Minister leaves no doubt about it. That's right. We agree on that. I think, however, that frustration is also on the other side. The idea that Western Europe would be opposed to membership is not in the circumstances, but simply against it also lives in these countries. I think that could also create frustration. We should be careful of that, too. Surely the principle is that a European country which is qualified can become a member?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u5	Yes. However, I would like to add something. I very much agree with Mr Kox. That's why it was so important to put it right. The European vocation, belonging to Europe and the discussions on membership are also seen in the Balkans, but in another way because there are candidate countries there are, of course, issues that affect and concern populations: what do we belong to? It is therefore better at such a time to clarify what you are shutting down now. They are deep political and economic agreements, but they clearly do not include a membership perspective. That is also important for clarity, precisely in order to avoid those frustrations. Let's not just look at that from the negative side. On the contrary, I would like to say how positive and sovereign these countries have now said: yes, we want to cooperate with Europe on a large number of points. In addition, apart from all these more legal and political discussions, it seems to me that it is rather unrealistic to think of this perspective in the short term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u6	This reasoning is very clear. On the other hand, however, there is still a need for fundamental recognition as European peoples. We must dare to give them to each other, even if we say that, in these circumstances, this can under no circumstances give rise to membership. However, recognition as such means the possibility of being able to join in the long term, because you are recognised as a European. That seems to me to be very important, especially for the people there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u7	Yes. That, however, is, for the sake of clarity, separate from what the Chamber is deciding today. This concerns Article 49 of the EU Treaty. In this way, there is clarity about what is reported to the populations there. I think it should send a very positive message. I also hear groups that are a little more reserved in relation to this perspective. That's okay, too. That's very legitimate. However, I think it is important that we do a'reach out', as it is so beautifully called, to the countries and their populations. That brings me to the next point. It is a sovereign choice of these countries. The adoption of the acquis we have just talked about, the closure of these in-depth cooperation possibilities and thus a high degree of economic and political integration with the Union, is a commitment that Georgia, Moldova and Ukraine themselves are committed to. It is important to say that, to underline that. We are always talking about the sovereign country and the sovereign right of a country to decide on the form of relations it wants to enter into with its neighbours. There are three other countries that have not opted for this form, also sovereign. The three countries have opted for a far-reaching association with the Union, not without a break. On the other hand, the European Union has offered this far-reaching form of association to these countries, as eastern neighbours, in order to underline the close links. Its own interest has certainly been mentioned, but it has also been said that it serves a common European interest. In addition, these far-reaching association agreements are an alternative to a membership perspective for some countries. You are close to Europe, but you don't have to be right in that whole package of the European Union. In this way, these countries are approaching the Union as closely as possible, to their mutual advantage, without such accession being on the table. I think it's important to say that. I have been asked which countries have not yet ratified it. As far as Ukraine is concerned, 18 countries have not yet ratified it and ten have not yet ratified it. As far as Moldova is concerned, 18 countries have ratified it and ten have not ratified it. As far as Georgia is concerned, 17 countries have ratified it and ten have not. The scope of the association agreements on refugees, migrants and stateless persons has been requested. We've agreed on this. These aspects form part of the JHA dialogue and cooperation on migration in those association agreements. This is an important component, on the one hand, to ensure that countries carry out good border management and do not constitute a source of or transit point for illegal migration, on the other hand, to ensure that asylum policy and the protection of refugees, migrants and stateless persons are implemented in accordance with the principles of international law. These are all aspects and explicit conditions in the visa liberalisation process that Moldova has already gone through and in which Ukraine and Georgia are still in. This is not only the case with regard to legislative policies and institutions, but also with regard to whether these frameworks are actually being implemented. Of course, they're not alone in that. The Union is helping these countries to comply with this through different methods of technical assistance. That is in the interests of Europe, I would say towards Mrs Faber, to avoid precisely what she fears. It is precisely that technical assistance that you need to ensure that those borders function properly. That is a shared interest that we are working on together. I would like to say a few words about the various countries to which the association agreements relate. I have been asked a number of questions about this. Let me first say something about the timing of the whole, including Mr Kox. He must not forget that this has been the subject of negotiations for years. This isn't something we put through in one go. When it comes to Ukraine and other countries, it is 2008 and 2010. These countries have something like: all of this should not last much longer; we want it to; it is a sovereign decision of our parliaments. On the one hand, it is important to say that we have not gone ice in one night. So the completion of this has not come out of the sky either. Not in all cases has the outcome been as anticipated. In this sense, we have really looked at the different countries. Let me mention Armenia. That was just as far away from the negotiations on an association agreement as Georgia, Moldova and Ukraine. That stopped the negotiations at a late stage. We regret that, but I respect that choice, which was, by the way, motivated by the necessary Russian pressure, let there be no misunderstanding about it. On the other hand, the signing of the association agreements has preceded much. In view of the questions that have been asked, I would like to say something about Ukraine. The decision of the then President Yanukovych not to sign the agreement led to widespread protests, his resignation opened and the election of President and Parliament led to a new government led by President Poroshenko. These are internationally accepted, verified elections, in which a large majority have clearly opted for a rapprochement with Europe and European values and standards. It is precisely the parties that I believe were wrongly said to be quasi-fascist parties or that they are made up of the people who support the Maidan Revolution that have hardly been mentioned in those elections. A clear democratic choice has therefore been made to support the association agreement with Ukraine.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u8	The minister said there was a rebellion that led to the resignation of the president. Since everything here is included in the Acts, I would like to say that I think the Minister meant: the President was dropped off. It wasn't a free choice. In any case, it was an argument for Russia and Eastern Ukraine to say: this is an unconstitutional coup d'état and it must therefore be condemned. I know the West has chosen a different position, but the President has not resigned. The president's been dropped off. In fact, he thinks he should still be president, which nobody wants in Ukraine anyway. But the President has been deposed and I was surprised how quickly the European Union and the Netherlands agreed on such an unconstitutional act. Two days before, we as the European Union had a completely different opinion on this. I think it is right that we should at least mention the right facts, namely that the former President has been dismissed. That was my argument for saying that the government which eventually agreed to the treaty was not democratically legitimised.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u9	That is what we disagree about. That's not my reading of history. It is clear that, after demonstrations in Kiev, there has been a great deal of violence against demonstrators, which has led to the situation in which the President has fled the country and that elections have subsequently been held in a completely new situation, in accordance with all international standards, which have led to a democratically elected government. That's something else I'm in. However, precisely because of the importance of territorial integrity, it is important that the Ukrainian government stands for all Ukrainians. We will soon be able to agree on that. I shall come back to this when we talk about Minsk II and the negotiations.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u10	We may disagree on a number of issues, but there can be no misunderstanding that there was a democratically elected President who was subsequently dismissed overnight by parliament? Whether you liked it or not, that's what happened. In any case, for the Russian Government, that has since been a reason, an argument, an excuse, an excuse, how do you want to say: listen, European Union, you agree to a coup d'état; that is very strange, isn't it? Of course, they also have some fear, in the sense that this could happen to them. I do not think there is any difference of opinion on the reading. About the assessment, about whether you think it's good or bad, you can disagree.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u11	I think that reading and assessment in this case are somewhat interrelated. In any case, I said how the Dutch Government and the European Union view this. Of course, I also know the Russian side's reading, so to speak. The Russians do indeed have a different view of this. For me, there is certainly no ambiguity about the sovereign will of the Ukrainian Parliament and the Ukrainian Government to join these agreements freely. It is important that this also happens now after such a time of uncertainty, regardless of how you interpret history. People are waiting for that. In the negotiations with the Russian Federation, we have already agreed that it will start later. At the request of Ukraine, the provisional application of economic parts has been postponed until 1 January 2016. This has also been a very trilateral discussion with the Russian Federation. So it's not like that wasn't taken into account at all. Nevertheless, there are different views, especially with the Russian Federation. I certainly don't want to put that under the seats or the benches. A relatively large number of questions have been asked about the state of the reform process in Ukraine. I would like to say a few words about this, apart from the geopolitical side, although that is, of course, a dividing line or a false difference between political and economic points. Let me just say that straight away to everyone who said that. If these reforms in Ukraine do not progress, if they do not lead to a truly new perspective for the population, it will automatically create an opportunity to further destabilise the country. These issues are therefore linked: what is happening in Minsk II, what is happening in the negotiations, in the working groups, and what is happening in economic reform. This progress in the reform package is, at its core, always a political and economic process. That is never just a technical economic process. Everyone has said that, and we see it everywhere, especially in Europe at the moment, but in a different form and in another country. Progress in the reform process generally shows a moderate positive picture, especially if you bear in mind the context in which the Ukrainian government has to operate. There is clearly political will. That is also important, because in a country that is coming out of such a crisis, the political consensus is certainly not automatic. There is a history of very corrupt and very oligarchic structures. Some of them still exist. It is a question of whether there is an alliance of change that has a chance of success and results in a number of areas. So there is a clear political will. In the annual political speech to Parliament, Poroshenko stated that reforms are at the heart of his policy. An important development is also the operationalisation of a National Council of Reforms. It started working and has some kind of central direction. A large package of laws has been passed that are very reformative. It has been decided to set up a constitutional committee, which will come forward with proposals for constitutional reform, even if this is decided upon. A package of anti-corruption laws has been passed. A national anti-corruption agency is being set up. The protection of whistleblowers is strengthened. There is a new policy strategy and legislation on public finance management. You can say: those are just laws. Nevertheless, this is an essential condition, on which consensus has been reached in Ukraine. There is broad legislation on public procurement, deregulation and new taxes. There is also the adoption of anti-discrimination legislation and the strengthening of the influence of civil society, including through access to and transparency of municipal decision-making processes. That didn't exist there at all. Decentralisation of powers, including the merging of municipalities and budget decentralisations, is under way. In itself, these are not yet final results. I'm not here to say the glass is half full or half empty. I look to Ukraine with great concern, which comes a long way. It is still involved in a major conflict and it lies in a difficult neighbourhood. It has a very problematic relationship with the Russian Federation, with which the economic relationship is very strong. It has a history of oligarchy. Compared to other countries, without saying that this should not lead to more pressure, I think that there really is a government here that is trying to get out. I can also tell from the contacts we have as part of the IMF and World Bank electoral group. I can see that this is an important element.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u12	The Minister is right that a large legislative package has been adopted by the Verchovna Rada. But in Ukraine in particular, the problem is that a lot of legislation is being adopted, but that it is not being implemented, enforced and enforceable before the courts. Would we conclude an association agreement with a country such as Bangladesh, Rwanda, Kenya and so on? These countries are at the same level as Ukraine. On a list of corrupt countries of Transparency International, Ukraine ranks 142, still among the Russian Federation. During a recent visit to Ukraine, I heard from the pro-government governor in eastern Ukraine that there is endemic corruption: everything is deluded with corruption. I do not wish for this country, but it is the reality. When we conclude an association agreement with such a country, it is nice to have all kinds of legislation adopted, but you have to look at the practice. Is that country capable of meeting the high expectations of the Association Agreement? The Minister is better than I am aware of all these facts. Should we now look at the laws they adopt in the Verchovna Rada laws are passed every day, if they are not fighting each other or should we look at the practical implementation? The reform of the judiciary, I believe, has stalled for 15 months and has been reinstated a few weeks ago. I would like to hope with the Minister that things are moving in the right direction in Ukraine, but I have my eyes open and I do not see that progress.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u13	I, too, have my eyes open. I agree with you that Ukraine has a very poor starting position, partly due to years of mispolicy and abuse of power by the previous regime under President Yanukovych. This applies, for example, to corruption. It is true what you say: Ukraine is very low on the Transparancy International ranking. At the same time, that NGO has also concluded that the country has achieved the necessary positive results since last year's democratic elections of the President and Parliament, i.e. since Yanukovych. Its importance is that the association can give hope to the people to shape such a reform process politically and institutionally. That is an incentive that a country like Bangladesh does not have. We have an interest in this because it is a neighbouring country. Of course, we also have an interest in developments in Bangladesh, but that is a little further away from home. We are now supporting Ukraine in these areas through an EBRD programme. There are also other programs that are very focused on anti-corruption. Let there be no misunderstanding: the Ukrainians are changing their society, we are not. We can support, we can catalyze, we can help create markets, we can provide technical assistance and we can say: you are with us, we are with you to do so. That gives hope, that gives expectation and that has a catalysing effect. You might disagree on that. Mr Kox is actually saying: because that is the case, you should not make a treaty, because that must be much better. You could say that if it was indeed about EU membership. Then you say: you have to meet everything exactly, otherwise it won't happen. This is a matter of European security and prosperity. I say this not only from a sort of idealism but also from an important point of view; there is nothing wrong with that, and I say it also with a view to being very realistic, operational, if the Chamber so wishes: bureaucratic elements of this association agreement, which is gradually trying to move the country forward. I've come to investigate the criminal prosecution of the crimes committed during the Maidan protests and in Odessa. Of course, human rights and international law play an important role, which applies to all processes and all problems in the country. We believe it is important that progress is made in the criminal investigation and prosecution of human rights violations at the time of the Maidan protests. There's still a lot of light out there. The same applies to the violence in Odessa in May 2014. The responsibility for these crimes lies with the perpetrators. It is up to the Ukrainian authorities to have independent and objective investigations carried out. Support for this process is under discussion through the Council of Europe. In April, the Ukrainian Parliament adopted a law condemning communist and national-socialist totalitarian regimes in Ukraine and prohibiting the spread of their symbols. Legislative powers are, of course, subject to the sovereignty of the Ukrainian state, as we do in the Netherlands. But it is important that the reforms and legislative proposals are in line with the European Convention on Human Rights, as well as with the association agreement we are discussing today. That's why it's so important. Of course, there is freedom of expression and we have this debate here too, and I do not think that the ban on the Communist Party is the issue. There is no ban on that party, but on spreading symbols of it. That seems to me to be at least in conflict with freedom of expression. But once again, they have been working for a long time and expectations have been raised; it is precisely in order not to frustrate them that progress needs to be made now. I think we should also look strategically at economic reforms. Political and economic reforms are essential, not just because of the perspective for the citizens. However, the timing must be right: not too fast and not too slow. They must have been cut to size for every country. At the same time, however, we must realise that it is precisely because of the destabilization policy in Ukraine that it is important that this is also considered politically and strategically. The relationship between reforms and money is always monitored by the IMF, the World Bank and the EU to ensure that people in Ukraine who are in a very difficult situation are helped, I am thinking of the humanitarian situation of the people who fled Donetsk and Luhansk. That is really an essential point. In this context, it is good to pay attention to Minsk. A question has been asked about Ukraine's accession to NATO. That does not play out as far as we are concerned. There is no concrete request from Ukraine and it would not be eligible for accession to NATO at the moment either. Ukraine was given the commitment to become a member at the Bucharest Summit in 2008, but the Yanukovych government subsequently indicated that it had no aspirations to become a member. It assumed non-block status. So this point is not topical. Considerations that nourish the zero sum game that is apparently played by Russia should not, as far as I am concerned, play a role. I have come to Minsk and what is happening in relation to the Russian Federation. The Dutch Government takes the clear position that these agreements, in particular that with Ukraine, have not been concluded on the basis of a zero sum game with the Russian Federation, even though the perception is there. It is done on the basis of a sovereign, free choice. Nevertheless, a number of EU core values, such as territorial integrity and non-use of force by the Russian Federation, have been exceeded and are still exceeded. So Europe cannot remain passive. We must take a strong position to ensure that the situation does not worsen. We have chosen a combination of unity on the one hand in Europe on sanctions policy and a clear position on investment in relation to Article 5 and mutual assistance on the other. This takes place through the well-known elements, namely the High Readiness Task Force and the exercises in Poland. I do not see it as provocative, but rather as a clear sense of stability for those people who feel threatened for good reasons because they are experiencing destabilisation in their region. NATO and sanctions are therefore important elements of our policy. Does this mean that to put it bluntly, we are in 1914 or in 1938? Do we feel anything for those historical analyses? Do we feel like we're going back to the Cold War? The answer is no. In my opinion, there is a conflict of its own that certainly has to do with the political psychology of the Russian Federation after the end of the Cold War. I think this is a definite fact, but that does not mean that we have to take account of political psychology. We must not give in to the sovereign right of a number of countries that want to belong to our values. But we do need communication. That is why the Dutch Government has been in Russia and we have spoken with Minister Lavrov. We are in favour of a relationship between NATO and the Russian Federation, if only to prevent all kinds of problems and incidents. We can also talk to the Russian Federation about other matters, whether Syria, Libya or otherwise, but there can be no misunderstanding that it is not a business as usual when we still see destabilisation activities in Transnistria, Georgia and elsewhere. In this sense, we also support these countries. What does that mean for the real situation in Ukraine?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u14	To clarify, we do not need to talk about sanctions now, because that is another chapter, and that is important enough. However, the Minister says that we must at least keep communication open. Recently, the President of the House of Representatives rightly protested against the announcement of a Russian list of Members of our Parliament and of the European Parliament. I fully support that. The European Union also has a list of the members of the Duma. Would the Minister consider whether it would be wise for both sides to say, apart from the sanctions, that Members of a parliament do not belong to that? They are supposed to keep parliamentary democracy and the possibilities open at the time of crisis. If we are angry because the Russians are putting our people on their list, that would be mirrored by the parliamentarians we have put on our list.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u15	Let me first say that I like the idea in itself, but I will explain why I am not in favour of it. First of all, we are in favour of a strong line. We are not naive and we see that there is a new policy of spheres of influence from the Russian Federation and that destabilization is taking place. Opportunity makes the thief. We believe that these reforms are important in Ukraine, so that new opportunities for destabilization cannot be created there. On the other hand, there's got to be communication. Normally, you would say that this comes first in parliamentary circles. I note that perhaps the parliamentarians themselves have chosen to exclude, for example within the Council of Europe, a large number of Russian parliamentarians. It seems that the parliaments in the Council of Europe are of that opinion. Secondly, I want to make the following difference. The people on the list as parliamentarians are directly involved in the annexation of Crimea or in the destabilisation of Ukraine. It is not just about their role as parliamentarians, but about the combination of them. If they disagree, they can appeal. It's transparent legislation. I also believe that the Duma members see it almost as a compliment, as some of the European national parliaments see it as a compliment. I'm not from that school. The more communication, the better. But in this case, I am truly convinced that this list has been correctly drawn up and has to do with the problem itself. I am also convinced that the list is transparent and that we are prepared to say through the judicial channels that are open to it whether or not that is true. When I spoke to Minister Lavrov two and a half weeks ago, I did not receive the same assurance for our parliamentarians. Of course it is a bit tit for tat; let there be no misunderstanding: you do this and we do that. But to make a difference and not to say that we are good and they are bad: it is indeed about the ways in which this involvement is indicated in the politics that we reject. A number of spokesmen have pointed out that the implementation of the Minsk agreements is part of a new diplomatic initiative, in this case by the French and German President, in order to move forward in the context of a very complex situation where there is no military solution. It's pretty complicated to do that right. The implementation of Minsk agreements initially led to a certain de-escalation of the conflict, thanks to a cease-fire in a large part of the area. However, we see that shelling continues in several places, such as in the south near Marioepol around the city of Donetsk and in the north of Luhansk. The OSCE's special monitoring mission also reports that the initial withdrawal of heavy weapons seems now to be falling short. Furthermore, weapons are increasingly being detected on both sides along the contact line. So there is a constant tension and threat, but without really great escalation. The development over the past year has made it clear that this conflict cannot be resolved by military means. So that means that we need to think about whether this only game in town should be strengthened. This has been done in the context of the so-called Normandy format. On 23 June the Foreign Ministers of Germany, France, Ukraine and the Russian Federation met. There's a certain ritualization in that. How are we gonna get through this? I think it is at the heart of the four working groups that have been set up. It's not working groups to buy time. The risk is that everyone will remain in their position, that there will be all kinds of peace processes and that nothing will change strategically. That is the risk of the current situation. I think there are a number of elements at the core. First of all, there is the military paragraph again. There are all kinds of complicated problems that need to be solved. I am thinking, for example, of the differences of opinion that exist between the separatists, without exaggerating it, because the Russian Federation is directly involved and therefore co-responsible. Let there be no misunderstanding about that. That is why we have also rolled through the sanctions. The Russian Federation is responsible, but at the same time you see tensions on that side: what is the future if Ukraine's territorial integrity is sacred? It is sacred as far as I am concerned and also according to the Minsk agreements. It will also have to be filled in. There is a second point, and that is the local elections. In March Ukraine adopted a law on a special regime of local self-government of the DPR and the LPR, which can be discussed further after legitimate elections have taken place. There is a well-known difference of opinion that you see in all peace processes, namely that the separatists really want to talk about it now when they have no representatives recognised by Ukraine. In addition, separatists must accept that any elections take place in a free and transparent manner and on the basis of Ukrainian law. That's the way it's supposed to be. However, they have recently denied the international observers of the OSCE access to the area. Bad case, then. Their reconnaissance mission was intended precisely to identify the possibilities for holding elections. I think that is where the problem lies. I therefore note a number of things with regard to Minsk II. Major escalation has been prevented in recent weeks. It's still an unstable deal. It is clear that the responsibility of the Russian Federation remains a core responsibility. It is essential that this diplomatic trail remains with the strength behind it, including a transatlantic unit, to ensure that progress is made with local elections and military disengagement. The talks aren't dead, that wouldn't be good either. They will continue on 4 and 5 July to raise this kind of issue. There is much more to say about Ukraine, but the essence is therefore the importance of reforms, the fact that the opportunity makes the thief, small optimism in that area that needs to be supported without naivety and the fact that Minsk is still a great risk. That is why the sanctions have been maintained and the diplomatic trail must be continued vigorously, with the support of all countries. Then there are a number of other countries, in particular Georgia and Moldova.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u16	Can I ask one more question about the situation in Ukraine, as the Minister moves on to another? Is our assessment correct that it is above all the Normandy talks, in particular the involvement of France and Germany, and to a much lesser extent the European Union, in keeping the Minsk II process going?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u17	I can answer that with a "yes" and a "no." Yes, in the sense that the importance of pioneers in Europe with the authority of Merkel and Holande has been essential to break this. No, in the sense that the European Union is and will continue to be directly involved through reports, ideas, funding but also political pressure on the follow-up steps and thus on all the working groups I have just mentioned. I owe one more answer to Mr van den Broek, otherwise it would be very serious after his maiden speech, namely on EUAM, an unarmed, non-executive mission that oversees the reform of the Ukrainian security sector. That mission started on 1 December 2014. The occupation is currently 77 of the 101 international staff. In particular, the recruitment of local staff has been slow in the past period, which meant that the mission was still very limited in capacity in the first six months. EUAM has been given a tough and politically charged task to support the central reform of the security sector. That is quite an assignment in Ukraine, as the Chamber knows. The mission's objective is to increase Ukrainian domestic civilian security capacity in line with rule of law principles and with respect for international human rights obligations. To be honest, I think it's too early to talk about really good results. I'm not saying they're bad, but it's slow, so we'll press that. We really believe that EUAM should continue to focus primarily on supporting and helping to shape the Ukrainian reform agenda. I think that's the point. You don't have to put a lot of other bells and bells in there. We also have our own people in that mission, five Dutch people, and we aim to increase that number. Then I come to other questions that have been asked about Moldova and Georgia and very quickly about the countries that have chosen a different route.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u18	Do you think you'll be able to finish your first term by 6.30 p.m.?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u19	Yeah, I'm sure I can do that. In Georgia, following the change of power as a result of the parliamentary elections in 2012, legal proceedings were initiated against a number of former executives for abuse of power. We share the concerns of NGOs about this and we also regularly emphasise in discussions with the Georgian authorities and at EU level that legal proceedings should be fair and transparent. We have also observed in Georgia in the framework of the OSCE. In the final report of December 2014, ODIHR concluded a number of shortcomings, such as that respect for the right to fair justice is not fully guaranteed by the Georgian justice system. I welcome the fact that Georgia has accepted this and pays a great deal of attention to the ongoing reforms of the judiciary, also supported by the European Union and by our own embassy in Tbilisi. On the contrary, Georgia has taken very significant steps in the fight against corruption, including the reorganisation of the police, education and public spending. So Georgia has fallen very much, or increased as you should say, on the Corruption Perceptions Index of Transparency International. Of course, many improvements are still possible, as in many countries, but I can see that Georgia as a country is really trying to find its way with Europe, on the basis of a positive approach. Moldova is indeed a more complex case, given the complex political situation, which concerns a number of issues. However, we have committed ourselves to the reforms enshrined in the association agreement. I would like to mention the well-known points of the fight against corruption, the reform of justice, etc. Good progress has also been made. We always have to watch the movie and not the photo, but that picture is essential to make sure the movie goes on. The subjects that are difficult were also discussed not long ago in the Association Council and in the Association Committee with Moldova's Minister for Foreign Affairs. I was there, too. We have also set out exactly what the next steps could be. Financial support is also focused on the implementation of the agreement. A direct conditionality is thus also included in the Neighbourhood Instrument. Where there is relapse, that can also have consequences for that instrument, like a stick behind the door. I would like to say two things about the Mecca of the arms trade, Transnistria. Firstly, it is important that everyone, including the non-approved Transnistria authorities, should work to combat this trade. Moreover, I do not have any further information on such transactions from Transnistria. Secondly, I was also asked by Mr Schrijver-Of course these agreements are important because, as is certainly happening in Moldova now, they must be an element to create a number of carrots with the Transnistria authorities which will at least increase the chances of an agreement with them. I have no illusion that this will happen with a little money and with a little cooperation, but those association agreements will, to my liking, work more for the need to get that thing under control in Transnistria. I have no illusion that this is not the case now. I believe that this includes elements of destabilization from the Russian Federation, which make it so important that we also remain involved in Moldova. However, as far as I am concerned, the key to this solution is still in Moscow. That is the essence of the situation in Transnistria. The same applies to Abkhazia, Georgia and South Ossetia.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u20	I hear the Minister saying that the de facto authorities in Transnistria should also be consulted. How? We do not recognise that authority. On the other hand, I think this is very important, because the Minister also mentions South Ossetia. These are two areas where Georgia has nothing to say, but Moldova's national football team just footballs in Tiraspol. I don't know how many thousands of Moldovans just work in Transnistria, so those two are divorced but are "living apart together." How can this association agreement also enter into discussion with that part of the country? Should the government in Chi?inau do that? Can we get that government to do that? Does that have consequences if it doesn't? Otherwise, the outcome would be that part of the country would remain outside the association agreement, while the minister wrote precisely in his reply that he believes that the government of Moldova should also be involved. How am I supposed to imagine that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u21	I think you should be practical, with the sense of reality that you rightly put forward about the reality of football games and how such a conflict situation translates into practice on the ground, as a first responsibility for the Moldovan Government. Of course, the others have to answer that and if they only veto it or if the Russians say 'no', then it stops quickly. But I do think that, within the limited limits we have to resolve it, this could be a method. This was also discussed with the Moldovan authorities during the last Association Council. I really got the impression that it was also an important point which was thought would help rather than not help. However, there are a number of problems, in particular the banking crisis that Mr Knapen mentioned. That is a major problem in Moldova at the moment, regardless of the political situation. Moldova is also a very complex country. The European Union, like the Netherlands, has repeatedly insisted on an independent investigation to get what exactly happened and how it was possible. This was also discussed at the Association Council. We have delivered clear messages on the Dutch initiative. This led to a report by an international agency commissioned by the National Bank of Moldova. It doesn't yet say exactly how the theft could have happened. As far as we are concerned, that is not the end of the matter. There's an investigation in progress, and I'll spare you the details. That's a concern we have. The four tracks, namely factual research, resource recovery, criminal investigation and systemic reforms, are at the heart of the relationship between the European Union and Moldova on this important issue. We have the advantage that because of our relationship in the electoral group and through the European Union we can play an important role in this. I think the Moldovan authorities are very aware of the seriousness of the situation. They too want to get the bottom stone up to prevent repetition. I'm going into the other three countries very quickly. Armenia has decided not to initial the association agreement, including the DCFTA, but to join the Eurasian Economic Union. As far as we are concerned, this does not mean the end of relations between the EU and Armenia. The EU and Armenia have continued a dialogue in the field of trade and politics with the aim of establishing a new basis for a cooperation agreement, with, of course, a scope compatible with Armenia's new international obligations as part of the Eurasian Economic Union. So that's where we can work together. I think we should look at how we can work with the Eurasian Economic Union in the relationship with Russia anyway, but you cannot easily be a member of two customs unions. So there is also a problem. The objective would be to maintain as many elements of that association agreement as possible. We already have a partnership agreement with Armenia, which will form the basis for our relations until there is another agreement. There is also a discussion with Azerbaijan about a contractual basis for intensifying relations. There are a number of issues on the agenda. It is not just about economic and political cooperation, but certainly also about fundamental rights and freedoms. They were also discussed at the last summit, which took place in Riga. Belarus is the last country. This is currently only part of the multilateral path of the Eastern Partnership, because of the human rights situation in Belarus. The multilateral pathway provides a framework for discussing a shared challenge in the areas of democratisation and stability. One could say that Belarus has a slightly different position in its relationship with Russia than it has. There are elements in the field of energy and freedoms where we could seek cooperation. Of course, this also depends on developments and how Belarus sees them. I believe that I have answered the most important questions of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u22	Thank you. We have now reached the second term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u23	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for answering the questions. I think we share the picture of the glass that is half full, of a moderately positive picture of the reforms in Ukraine. Of course, it's thin ice. Natalie Jaresko, the Minister of Finance, is an extremely forceful woman, but she got the Ukrainian passport an hour before she was sworn in as minister. Alvares Abrovacius, also an active young dynamic Minister of Trade in Ukraine, received Ukraine's passport an hour before he was sworn in. That is not so bad, but there are countries where this is not the case because they have more rooting, depth and stability. This is the case in many areas. Many people with another passport have entered those ministries and hope to find their way into the country. It's a good thing we're helping them. We will still have to pay close attention to what is happening at the moment in connection with the programme agreement with the IMF. There isn't yet. As long as that agreement is not there, Ukraine will not be able to continue financially. The programme is a prerequisite for safe investment. These investments are very important in order to achieve a little more socio-economic stability. I hope that the Dutch Government will also take an active look at how it can help with these investments once that programme is in place. Everyone knows that, for example, food security is basically the big growth diamond of the Ukrainian economy. We have reason to believe that. There's something we can do in that area. All this can only happen when investments are safe. I call on the government to be alert when that programme is in place. Finally, I would like to stress what the Minister says about the balance sheet. It is good to be aware of the fact that we need Russia, which we can also find reprehensible in the behaviour of that country. Of course, the boycott measures vis-à-vis Russia have just been mentioned. As far as I am concerned, these are a little out of the pre-globalisation era. There is a lot to say about this, but that is more for another occasion. Apart from that, it is good to pay attention to what we can do with Russia. We need the country in connection with the fight against ISIS and in making agreements on the Mediterranean, on reducing the number of refugees, on Syria and on Iran. This simply means that, despite everything, we need this player on the playing field of international relations. It is good not to talk about the possibilities of a new Cold War, but about the possibilities of using the stick and the carrot the minister had a Dutch translation to see what we can do in that area.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u24	Mr. Chairman. We would like to thank the Minister for the appropriate answer to the many questions that have been put this afternoon. We share his assessment that progress is easy to see, although the situation in Moldova and Ukraine in particular remains very worrying. We are convinced that the conclusion, application and implementation of the agreements can make a positive contribution to the reform process in those countries. In fact, if these agreements do not enter into force, there is a greater chance that the glass will not remain half full and may even break, than when we enter this process. Finally, I would like to point out that safety valves are incorporated into these agreements. The three agreements all take the form of a treaty. In addition to the general application of the provisions on suspension and even termination under the general Vienna Convention, the agreements themselves also provide for suspension of the operation of the Convention if so-called essential elements of the Convention are violated by one of the parties. Among other things, Article 480 of the Treaty with Ukraine states that this relates to the essential elements of the rule of law, in particular democracy, human rights and fundamental freedoms. This is a very important safety valve, which hopefully also has some preventive effect. You will not be surprised, Mr President, that my group will support the legislative proposals with conviction next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u25	Mr. Chairman. Firstly, I would like to thank the Minister for his comprehensive reply. Of course, I'm not entirely satisfied, but I'm allowed to. We can have a difference of opinion. I do wonder who and whose mandate this Chamber is actually sitting for. I'll explain that a little bit more. The EP proposed that the EU should solve the problems in Transnistria. However, it is not entirely clear to me what these problems are and how they should be resolved. It seems that the Minister regards the association agreement as the solution, but Transnistria is difficult to control. It is an unrecognized state, outside the eyes of international observers. None of that seems easy to me. My group therefore believes that it is undesirable to extend the EU further. We also wonder what the interests of the Dutch electorate are in this regard. We see no benefit from this. We are talking about problems on the east side but what is in the barrel for the Dutch electorate? I also asked the Minister a question about the neighbourhood policy. Are there any countries that subsequently became members of the EU, which previously had to do with this neighbourhood policy? Can the Minister indicate which countries are involved?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u26	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for his comprehensive answer to our questions. I would like to take a step back on the question of what exactly we are doing with regard to these agreements. You have to go back to the end of the Cold War for that. In 1992 there was suddenly a whole series of countries which, after the break-up of the Soviet Union, were independent sovereign states and had to take their place. What do you think that place is? Wouldn't that be a place under Moscow's control? However, the reaction of the countries showed that the majority were very pleased with and supported the new independence. Or was the alternative: to support democratic processes and economic reforms in those countries, so that this would lead to more security, more political friends and new markets, also in view of our own interests? In that process, there are all kinds of problems. Corruption is just one of them. The question isn't whether the problem is that big, but whether you're willing to do something about it and why you want to do it. We are among those who say: we recognise all these problems, success is not guaranteed but we have no alternative, so we are committed to supporting those processes. This is also possible because the population in the countries does not always support these processes in a majority. Then the factor of Russia. I agree that dialogue should be maintained in a sensible approach, including in the case of military contacts, in order to avoid misunderstandings that could lead to accidents. It is essential that we do not fall into the trap of accepting the Russian frame of this situation. As soon as we go along with the argument that it is about spheres of influence, there is only one conclusion possible, namely that Ukraine belongs to the Russian sphere of influence. That is a pity for Ukraine itself and for the population, if it thinks otherwise, but big boys have more influence than small boys; we have to accept a division into spheres of influence. It is a matter of principle not to go along with it from the outset. We are perfectly entitled to recognise that Russia has interests, and we can talk to Russia about that. We should not accept the underlying idea that Russia has a special responsibility and a special dominant position there, because then we have lost the big game.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u27	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for his comprehensive answer. He knows what he's doing. He says openly and honestly that these are agreements that go far beyond the usual agreements we conclude, agreements with extremely complex countries which, according to some, all have a conflict over what is now and is not part of the territory. That's where my doubts lie. You have to be extremely careful when these are far more far-reaching political and economic agreements than we normally do. These are countries with their own conflicts, all of which are related to the largest country in the world, which generally plays a not commendable role. The Minister said that idealism should be allowed in foreign policy and in this kind of thing. I agree with him, but I do agree with him with moderation and great concern, because idealism, without sufficient understanding of realism, has often caused major problems in foreign policy. I see how the Russian Federation operates. I get there all the time. I don't admire the country. I think it runs an amateur foreign policy. The Russian Federation is constantly rushing from fact to fact rather than indicating what the plan is. At the same time, especially when we are talking about agreements with countries which, at least in Russian terms, have more to do with Russia than with other countries, I think that we need to understand how the thought process is developing there. When imploding the Soviet Union, Russia first, then the new countries and then perhaps the rest of the world, should have asked: where does that lead? Imploding empires cause enormous problems. The Russians don't really want to talk about it, because they still think it shouldn't have happened. The new Member States do not need to talk about it either, because they say that we are independent, so we have nothing to do with you anymore. The EU has been on that line for a long time, but sooner or later we will have to think about how to deal with the whole belt of countries that were Soviet Union but are now independent. Of course you shouldn't touch that. That must be respected, but they are dealing with a population that says: I was Russian, but one day I was told that I had become Ukrainian, or Moldovan or whatever. I think we need to talk about this at some point. I do not mean the Netherlands, but the European Union, with the Russian Federation and with the new countries. In the meantime, 18 Member States have ratified and ten have not. This means that the Netherlands is not the only country where there may be some doubt as to what we should do with it. My group believes that cooperation to the mutual benefit is a good thing. This is good for the economy but above all good for stability on this continent. Let us not forget: if you have a somewhat historical look, we have two new historians here, you can see that there is an extremely shaky balance in Europe. My group is in favour of this, but the question is when is cooperation to the mutual benefit? Does the cooperation that we are now working on lead to mutual benefit? At least in part of the continent, it is seen as part of the deteriorating relations between the Russian Federation, the EU and the US. We must also keep an eye on this. Does the mutual benefit of this outweigh the mutual disadvantage that this has caused? I'm not convinced of that. Nor am I convinced that everyone sees that the situation in the three partner countries is more serious than the picture. The Russian media are full of propaganda. There's a lot of stuff being told. If you want to know something, you really shouldn't read the Russian media properly. The leaders of Ukraine themselves say that the country is endemicly corrupt. Someone who said that to me was one of the richest people in Ukraine. Then I asked him how he got his dime. That was a different story, but he did say everything there was corrupt. That's not a pitiful judgment. The world is as it is. That's the situation. With such a country, which also has an armed conflict in its own area, and an extremely troubled relationship with its neighbours, we conclude a much more far-reaching contract than with other countries. I think we should be aware of what is happening. The Minister has clearly indicated that these are different countries. We are dealing with this issue now as a package, perhaps we should leave it at that, but it is really weird. The Minister also indicates that Georgia has taken steps forward in the fight against corruption, but is moving backwards in the area of the rule of law. Anything that was in the previous government can go to the next prison. That's not good. I know some people from the last government. They certainly don't come to heaven, but to put them away from parliament and government right now, I don't like them either. They're different countries. Moldova is another country, where the conflict on its territory might be settled under conditions. I do not see that happening in Georgia. All in all, my group will start to think carefully and consider what the Minister has said. It is probably too far for us to conclude an association agreement with Ukraine at the moment. It is not that I do not want to help Ukraine: I have more affinity with a small country along a large neighbour than vice versa, but I do not know whether we are helping the country to do so at the moment. The 'carrot and the stick' is desperately needed there, but if we conclude an association agreement with them, I think that a lot of processes that are already going on hard enough are going to stop. That's not good for the country. With regard to Moldova and Ukraine, we must reconsider what the Minister said in response to our questions. We will vote on it next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u28	Mr President, I too would of course like to thank the Minister for his comprehensive reply. I agree with him wholeheartedly in a lot of things. I am pleased that he recognizes the fundamental right of the peoples as Europeans. He himself formulated that as "you're part of it." As long as we make that clear, because that is very important there. In my first term, I mentioned the element of frozen conflicts. An illegal referendum was held in Transnistria, with a very clear outcome. There is some kind of democratic legitimacy of what is being pursued there. In the case of Abkhazia and South Ossetia, these are small lands which have been added to Georgia at a relatively late stage and have not felt at home there. Very often, even in the past, they have objected to the bond that arose there. Now they're completely separated. In all three cases, the Russians have sent their troops there and have thereby intervened within the limits of what we regard as sovereign states, with fixed borders. If you look at these three cases exactly, you can see that it is the small-scale remnants of what Mr Kox has just mentioned as the implosion of the Russian empire, of the Soviet empire. These are the small-scale remnants where it has gone wrong and where not only the formal border but the substantive problem has to be looked at. If you look at the problem of content, you must be able to understand it, at least for those populations. Then it remains that the Russians did not formally have the right to just send troops there. The fact that they respond to what is genuinely perceived in their country as interest and concern for peoples for which they have been responsible for a very long time is not entirely unimaginable. In the West, that thought doesn't exist. For us, these are incomprehensible things. There is only one thing that applies to us, namely those limits. That seems to me to be a wrong starting point. Is it not possible to deal with it in a slightly different way, to understand what is really going on there and to untie something in that way? That's the point, of course. Does the Minister see an opportunity to do so in the long term? I'd like an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u29	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister very much for his comprehensive reply. It is important to face the facts, to look at the state of affairs and to make a proper assessment. What's the most strategic thing to do now? I welcome Mr Kox's contribution, because it makes it clear that we should not be foolproof. The Minister acknowledges many developments. It is indeed as Mr Knapen says: is the glass half full or is it half empty? To make a decision, it is very important for my group to know whether this is going to help or not. Is this going to bring the reforms forward or not? We think it can have a positive effect. If we sign the association agreement, we have a basis on which we work together and on which we address each other. You actually create a denominator on which you discuss the agreements with each other: are they fulfilled or not? You support them through programs, but you also have a leverage. Mr Schrijver referred to the suspension mechanisms contained in it. They will not be used so quickly, but they are some kind of leverage, so you can continue to insist on reforms and also be very critical. The Minister has made it clear that these talks are already taking place. If there is an agreement, they certainly need to be continued. Trusting that it's gonna be okay is a big word, but we do think that with an agreement there are more opportunities for that than when we turn away or wait. We are afraid that waiting will not improve very much either. A very important condition is what happens to the actors other than governments. Maybe the Minister can answer that. It is very important to be in conversation with everyone and to make agreements, so that you make civil society stronger and, so to speak, emancipate towards the incumbent governments. I have drawn attention to the position of refugees. The Minister said that we are working on border management and on improving asylum systems. It is essential that this goes hand in hand. The borders have been shut down faster than you've set up a proper asylum system. When borders close, refugees are immediately dependent on access to protection there. I would like to draw attention to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u30	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the members of the First Chamber for their second term. To a large extent, I share the analyses made by the members of the Chamber. It is thin ice. I believe this is true if you look at developments in a number of countries. In some countries, it's getting a little thicker. We must ensure that we continue to skate on this in a way where we do not sink through the ice. It does not require an idealistic but realistic approach. I'm in agreement with that on my own. I don't like the equation myself if the glass is half full or half empty. We just have to look at the situation, which is constantly changing. They are independent processes, which will not be linear, automatically in the same direction, where each country will have the same final destination. There are elements that one wants to share together. It will be rather complicated to shape this in the coming period. There are, of course, a number of things that we have agreed internationally. We are closely involved in the negotiations in the IMF and in the World Bank. We are in the electoral group, but that does not mean that we can automatically stand up for Ukraine. We are very much involved. I think the bridge function is important. It is essential that investment is made in the future, that people get jobs and that investors get security. We are very active in this. The Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation was present at the last meeting on aid to Ukraine, particularly in view of a number of sectors in the Netherlands. Agriculture was mentioned, and I think this is essential, also historically. Ukraine, the border country, could play a powerful role in this area. I take the signal from your Chamber very seriously in order to shape it as carefully as possible and as precisely as possible, so that there is an agreement. Many of your questions were about the mix of policy towards the Russian Federation. There are, of course, nuance differences, but they are not really decisive. Everyone rightly points out the need not to accept the unilateral and violent violation of certain rules of European security. See also consensus in the Chamber on this. Perhaps there is a difference of opinion in the mix of response, but I do not think that is very big either. I would like to say a few words about the questions relating to borders. I do not believe, with all due respect, that it is a legalistic approach to borders. I wouldn't say that. What we are trying to do in European integration with traps and standing up is, on the basis of our own sovereignty and identity, to make borders relatively less important. That's different than invading a country and saying, "This is mine." That's still a risk. If you look at Transnistria, which has already been mentioned, then it is not possible to talk about it. We have a meeting of five plus two involving Tiraspol, Chisinau, Ukraine, the Russian Federation, OSCE, USA. That consultation has been held for years because the Russian Federation simply does not want to find a solution to the conflict. One also seems to have insufficient desire to listen to the voices there. Of course there are historical relationships, which is quite clear, but from the policy of a return to one realm we have historical parallels that are not very positive. I would point out that in another region of Moldova, called Gagauzia, there is once again discussion of autonomous and separate issues. The Russian Federation is pumping money into it to create a solution in a certain way. Before you know it, however, you are on a path that is extremely risky, in a world that is already full of conflicts. So I really think that the policy must be that the borders are the basic order of our world order, whether we like it or not. We see all kinds of countries that are breaking through at the moment. I am only thinking of ISIS when it comes to the borders between Iraq and Syria. I am thinking of the Russian Federation, but in a very different way, I say directly to it that is trying to commit people in a self-employed way. I can understand this historically, and I understand that there are identities, but we cannot put these basic principles into perspective and the fact that the order of our world, with all the problems we currently have, is based on them. Then it is up to countries to find a commitment to this. I hope that these association agreements - perhaps I do not entirely agree with Mr Kox - can play a positive role in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u31	I understand the importance attached to the borders and to the established order. Of course, that is important, because it can be a guarantee if you continue to assume that. The tricky thing about that is that there may be looming errors in it. It should be noted that this is also the case in certain respects. Then there is no point in just sticking to the element of stability. Then there will also have to be sufficient understanding of the forces that work within a coincidenced union of states in order to get out of it. At the very least, there should be an understanding of that. At least that is how I wanted to put it. So the starting point in the negotiations cannot only be: we want to maintain these limits in the long term. I'm tasting that a little bit in what the Minister said about Transnistria. There may be an agreement, but I have the impression that the starting point is Moldova. However, that does not have to be the end result of the process. It must be a peaceful process; we agree on that. However, the outcome may offer more opportunities than just maintaining borders.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u32	Historically, many boundaries have changed: based on violence, based on a struggle, sometimes called an independence struggle, and on agreements. Ethiopia and Eritrea didn't exist before. The Czech and Slovak Republics are now two entities. It is not a kind of blindness for me, in the sense that countries can make sovereign decisions on the basis of political choices to break up. I don't have a sense of history. I am happy to go along with Mr Ten Hoeve. But I am a foreign minister who also speaks on behalf of the government, not in a discussion club. So it is important to really say: we have an order. If I'm gonna put it into perspective here, we're really on the wrong track. I'm not gonna do that either. That is not only unwise, but also incorrect, because at the time you start to relativize borders, you will then find yourself with all kinds of new minorities at the same borders. I just mentioned another example in Moldova, which means that we are entering the cycle of proxy wars and violence that we are seeing in many parts of the world at the moment. I think it's important to send that signal now. In that sense, let us not put it into perspective in one way or another, especially at the time when European regulation is being affected.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u33	I understand the Minister should be in the House of Representatives at 7:00 p.m. Is that correct, Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u34	Yeah, 20 minutes ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u35	Twenty minutes ago? I thought you were supposed to be there by 7:00. So briefly, Mr Ten Hoeve.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u36	As I said, I understand the position, but that position cannot be absolute. In negotiations, it should ultimately be possible to reach a different outcome. If that possibility is excluded, these negotiations are worthless. After all, you know in advance that they run into nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u37	I agree with that in itself. Within the frameworks we know, you can come to negotiations that lead to change. If that happens peacefully and in a way that everyone accepts, that is obviously a possibility. However, I say this with a great deal of reserves. After all, you can interpret what I'm saying now in all kinds of ways. I would just like to mention the fact that, in Ukraine, where such a thing is happening, we have now really taken the basis of Ukraine's territorial sovereignty as a starting point. Fortunately, this has also been accepted in the Minsk agreements. I'm gonna get back to the other questions. I would like to say to Mr Schrijver that the possibility of a dispute settlement and suspension is indeed important. That is always possible and it is an essential part of these association agreements. When it comes to relations with the Russian Federation, I remain in this complex balance, with a fist and open hand, dialogue, sanctions and strengthening NATO. It is clear that there is tension between them. A certain amount of intelligence to manage that is essential. I would like to say to Mrs Faber that this is really in the interests of Dutch voters and people, because that is what we are doing: for the chance of more work, more stability and reduction of an influx of weapons. When it comes to border protection, it might be able to reconsider whether or not there are some elements in it that are in the interests of the Dutch electorate. I certainly do, because otherwise I would not be taking responsibility for it now either. I very much agree with Mr van den Broek. All this, of course, has to do with the end of the Cold War, with the way in which power and powerlessness are then dealt with, and with the fact that framing at the moment is something that happens politically. Of course, it is very easy to say that Russian sovereignty is no longer recognised, or that there is an automatic Western policy of domination. There will always be political-psychological elements, but the power over the image is a power that is certainly not always achieved objectively. I would like to say to Mr Kox that I understand his doubts. I would like to convince him about Ukraine. Apart from what Mr Kox thinks about the history of the past year, it is my conviction that, with the Minsk agreements and the fact that they are all based on Ukraine's national sovereignty, also in the opinion of the Russian Federation or at least what it has signed, it is really important that the stabilisation in Ukraine takes shape as soon as possible. Otherwise, the risk of destabilization will increase internally in Ukraine. Precisely because it was still quite sensitive with the Russian Federation, we will start with the association agreements later, namely on 1 January 2016. That is why I would like to suggest to the House that we vote in favour. With regard to migration, I would like to emphasise that I agree with the statement that two elements are essential: borders and the way migration management is handled and respect for people and migrants. We must also ensure that we do this right in our own country and in Europe. The way in which we do this can be transferred to our colleagues and to our eastern neighbours.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u38	The Minister for Foreign Affairs forgot to answer one of my questions, namely the question about countries that had first been in the neighbourhood policy and then joined the EU. The question was whether there are and if so, which countries are. Can he give a few examples of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u39	I think the answer is no. There are no examples of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u40	So it hasn't happened before?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u41	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-12.u42	We have come to deal with the legislative proposals. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the three legislative proposals or on one of the three legislative proposals? I see that's the case. I propose that we vote next Tuesday on the legislative proposals 33114, 34115 and 34116.
