ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u1	I would like to welcome all those present in the Chamber, in particular the Prime Minister and the Secretary of State for Security and Justice. Before we begin, Mr Pechtold has a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. A number of political groups have asked some technical questions about the cabinet letter. I understand there's a lot of work going on at the V and J Ministry to answer that. I do not think it makes sense to postpone the debate for that, but I would like to have the answers to those questions before the cabinet answers in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u3	I'll get the stenogram of this... this is always hard. I'll take a look at the Secretary of State and see if he can nod yes or no. Do you think this is possible? No. I understand that it is very complicated and that they are working very hard on it in the Ministry, but cannot just answer those questions that were asked yesterday. That's the complicated part.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u4	Well, let's get a little more formal. We have tried with a number of parties to open an official round of questions on this cabinet letter. As you yourself say, this is generally quite normal in a complicated procedure, but this was blocked by the coalition. We then put it in the form of written questions. The fact that these questions are difficult to answer is because there are quite a few points in the cabinet letter that are unclear. I can hardly imagine that, if the officials cannot answer it on paper, the Prime Minister and the Secretary of State will be able to do so immediately. Of course, I do not want to suggest that I underestimate their qualities, but I would like to have it verifiable on paper, so that there can be no light in between. So I repeat my request. I think it's very important that I get those answers. I'd like to know from the cabinet when it is. I don't know how they can nod that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u5	Here's what we're gonna do. You have now transferred this request. You said that the answers should be in at the beginning of the answer, or else as soon as possible. In the meantime, there is still some discussion between the people who can discuss it. Then at some point I can tell you what's going on. I suggest we start now. Thirteen speakers have spoken for this debate, and we are simply starting with the first speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u6	Mr. Chairman. "Save me, old world, your pompous stories. [...] Give me your fatigues, your arms, your united crowd full of desire to breathe free. The miserable waste from your full shore. Send them, the homeless, tossed to me by storm. I hold my lamp high by the golden door." This verse from the beautiful poem by Emma Lazarus stands on the pedestal of the Statue of Liberty. It was Pia de Jong who recently quoted her in her column in NRC Handelsblad. She added: "The light of freedom shone all over the world. What a difference with now." The situation in Syria did not arise suddenly. The war has been raging for four and a half years now. And what has been the European Union's response in recent years? We've built walls. The Mediterranean serves as a moat for Fortress Europe. It is our policy that drives refugees into the arms of smugglers, the only cynical straw for a single Europe. And what does the Netherlands do? We want an even higher fence around Europe. Closing the borders must be the solution. "Reception in the region" is what the cabinet calls euphemistic. Reception in the region is not an ambition; reception in the region has been the reality for years. The plan presented by the cabinet on Tuesday is a political solution to a problem between coalition partners, not a plan to show us on our human side. We should do that in three ways. Firstly, the redistribution of refugees within Europe. Can I assume, I ask the Prime Minister, that the Netherlands will agree to the redistribution proposed by the European Commission without further conditions or short-term links? Can I assume that we will be part of a leading group if necessary? In his letter, the Cabinet talks about UNHCR's resettlement programme. Do I understand that in the cabinet's plan an asylum seeker from a country where safe reception in the region is possible loses the right to apply for asylum in Europe? That such a person is dependent on the EU's quota of the number of asylum seekers that may be transferred? What numbers does the cabinet have in mind? The cabinet is not going to be specific about that. How many refugees is the cabinet willing to take in? Secondly, we need to think about legal routes for migration. We do not prevent human trafficking with higher walls and stricter laws for migrants. If you're hungry and you don't have a place to stay, if you've seen bombs fall and your children are threatened, then you're crawling out of the ground to the promised land, to the continent of peace and prosperity. If the cabinet really wants to focus on preventing more dramas in the Mediterranean, why does it not look at the visa requirements we impose on Syrians, for example? Why does the Cabinet not create routes for migration where people are not forced to risk their lives? Finally, integration. How cynical our reaction as politicians has been, so heartwarming is the attitude of society. The initiatives of people who are committed to the reception of refugees have sprung up like mushrooms in recent days. In order to maintain support for the influx of migrants, we need to work on integration from day one. This means compulsory professional Dutch lessons from day one, as well as the possibility to work or take a course. Any politician who now promises that the people who come back here will have to ask himself whether he can keep that promise. We know from the past that migrants who come here are most likely to stay here. That makes sense, too. If you're gonna run and stay here for ten years, you're not gonna put your life on hold. You might have kids here. These children are rooted here; they don't speak the language of the country you come from. Are we really gonna turn these people off in about ten years? Are we really gonna ask them to go back? I come to a conclusion with a practical question. The cabinet wants everyone who comes here and can actually be taken care of in the region to be sent back. Are you serious, Prime Minister Rutte? Are you serious? Are we really going to deport the men and women who risk their lives to control the sea? They walk along the highway in big stirrups. Who have nothing more than the backpack on their backs and a child on their hand. Those standing on the doorstep of the free West and knocking on our door. Are we gonna arrest these people, lock them up and send them back? If that is the case, then it is not just the refugees who need to be saved. Then we must also be saved from our lack of humanity.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u7	This story didn't start very well with quoting from the NRC. I don't think you should do that so quickly, but now it's content. GroenLinks' colleague talked about walls around Europe. I wonder if he's got the right continent ahead of him. There are hundreds of thousands of people coming to Europe now, because we have no walls around Europe. The best proof of today's debate is that we have open borders, that anyone can just come. Unfortunately, people drown because they also know that they are welcome here, that they will not be returned. That is the reality. You live in a fairy tale world. The GroenLinks Efteling is what I've heard here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u8	If only it were the Efteling, it wouldn't be true. People don't come here because they know they're not being sent back, people come here because they're running from horrors. People come here because they see their lives threatened. What we have been trying to do recently as Europe is to make agreements with our neighbouring countries, where people need to be taken care of. We have tried to tighten the borders and border surveillance between Turkey and Bulgaria, but it is not working. They're breaking through the cordons. Have you seen the images, Mr Wilders, of all those people who come to Europe and break through the political councils? They're running for their safety, trying to get to a safe place we could offer them,
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u9	Again: what kind of fairy tale world does Mr Klaver van GroenLinks live in? What a huge fairy tale world! First of all, it is an enormous number of economic refugees. As far as you're not: if you're from Syria and you're in Turkey, you're in a safe country. If you go to Greece, it's a safe country too. If you go from Greece to Macedonia, it is also a safe country. If you go from Macedonia to Serbia, it is also a safe country, and if you go from Serbia to Hungary too. So when it comes to security, you can stay in Turkey. If you're gonna keep going, you're gonna do it for economic reasons. You don't go as a political refugee through 12 countries that are already safe to end up in Sweden. You do that for a benefit, you do that for a house, you do that for something other than for the safety of your life. You're ignoring that. You may have a different political opinion, but you shouldn't be talking nonsense here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u10	Mr Wilders can call it economic refugees, I call it people who want to work on their future. If you dare say that Turkey is a safe country, given that that country is already receiving 2 million refugees, then I understand very well that people are travelling. That is why it is a good thing that we in Europe agree on how to redistribute these people in order to avoid the accumulation of refugees in places where they happen to arrive, whether that is Greece or Italy. Then we must also show solidarity with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u11	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u12	Well, Mr. Klaver says it himself, doesn't he? "Working for a future." That has nothing to do with political refugees, does it? If he doesn't think Turkey is safe, isn't Greece safe? Then Hungary is safe, isn't it? I understand these people prefer the Miele in Germany and a rental house, but that's safe, right? If they are purely political refugees, then you do not have to go from Syria via Western Europe to Finland or Norway? Isn't that economical? If that's okay with you, if you think those economic refugees are allowed to come, then we just disagree, but then you're honest. But do not pretend that they are political refugees if they want to end up in Turkey by 12 countries in the West, because we have a higher prosperity and a better welfare state. Because that is not for everyone, but for a lot of people the real reason. If you insist that you don't, you'll live in a mirage again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u13	People run from war and violence. I understand very well that they are going to the place they think is the best place to build their future there. I'm honest about that, much more honest than many other colleagues. I'm also saying that these people are probably gonna stay here, and I'm okay with that. If you're talking about being honest and telling me what you stand for, I'm saying this is what I stand for. I think these people should be able to come here. In addition, these people come to Greece because it happens to be close to Turkey, or they come to Italy because they land there. These countries cannot accept the reception of all these refugees, those numbers are simply too large. If you are working together in Europe, I know that Mr Wilders is looking at this very differently, you must show solidarity with each other and find a way to accommodate these people.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u14	Mr. Chairman. To get the cabinet out of the dream right away: migration is a fact. Refugee flows are real. People will understandably always flee war and violence. You can't stop that, you shouldn't want to, we have to help them. Any politician who claims otherwise, who suggests the solution with study groups, drawing table compromises or tough language about closing borders, throws people in the eye. Migration flows, thousands of refugees cannot be stopped, you can only manage them, at least try to manage them and provide decent care. So let's do that. Let us look at measures that are both merciful and feasible. We need leaders, some would say: tough leaders who dare to say so, who dare to seek acceptance in our society with that message. Long, too long we have had to wait for an action from the cabinet. Where Merkel took the lead and even Cameron went through the pump, the Rutte cabinet came with a study group, with no clear purpose and no clear timetable. Whether the deal between VVD and PvdA that was concluded this week is the result of that working group, is not entirely clear to me. At least it doesn't seem very thoughtful and thorough to me. Any sense of urgency and sense of reality seems to disappear in this difficult negotiated coalition compromise. Instead of preparing our society for the arrival of extra refugees, the coalition is doing a sort of exchange game in which the quartet game of Wouter Bos still pales. The PvdA gets reception in the short term, provided the VVD can show off closing the borders in the long term. And the VVD gets the return of refugees, provided the PvdA can say: but we're going to get them out of the camps now. I was particularly surprised by the proposals made by the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u15	It's gotta end with all these fairy tales and all these untruths. I am now going to put the same question to Mr Pechtold. Does he think that someone who, supposedly economically or politically motivated, goes from Syria to Turkey, goes from Turkey to Greece, goes from Greece to Macedonia and Hungary and ends up in the Netherlands or Germany, is a political or economic refugee? Or does he agree with me that when it comes to political refugees, it is about being safe, that you can stop in Turkey or, if you do not think that is safe, can stop in Greece?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u16	I think it's a fugitive, so it's welcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u17	Okay, Mr Pechtold says here: I don't care if they're political or economic refugees; you're always welcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u18	There are war refugees and there are refugees who seek the future elsewhere because the circumstances in their country require them to do so or give them hope for new opportunities. And we have an asylum policy which makes a clear distinction.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u19	Answer me!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u20	I do. My first answer was very brief: yes, they are welcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u21	Everyone?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u22	And then we'll assess what it's all about. Every Syrian is currently being judged as a war fugitive for the reasons we have established. And war refugees are welcome. Mr Wilders always takes such an example of Australia, where they push people back in those boats to Indonesia. Well, it's not a war in Indonesia; I know that. However, the same Australia is recording 12,000 Syrians today. It is on the other side of the world, but Mr Wilders' example is now setting a good example.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u23	If Mr Pechtold is going to ask me a question back, that means that he is in trouble with his own answer. And that's good for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u24	Bring it on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u25	Mr Pechtold is now saying literally: I do not care whether it is political or economic refugees, they are all welcome in Germany and in the Netherlands. Is that what he's saying? After all, I say it again, a political refugee from Pakistan, Iraq or Syria can stop in Turkey. If he goes from Turkey to Greece, even if he doesn't have to, he has to stop there. But he doesn't have to come to the West, because those are safe countries. I cannot imagine that the D66 Group would consider Greece an unsafe country. So let Mr Pechtold clarify. Does he think that all refugees, politically or economically, are welcome in the Netherlands? Mr Pechtold is now saying literally: I do not care whether it is political or economic refugees, they are all welcome in Germany and in the Netherlands. Is that what he's saying? After all, I say it again, a political refugee from Pakistan, Iraq or Syria can stop in Turkey. If he goes from Turkey to Greece, even if he doesn't have to, he has to stop there. But he doesn't have to come to the West, because those are safe countries. I cannot imagine that the D66 Group would consider Greece an unsafe country. So let Mr Pechtold clarify. Does he think that all refugees, politically or economically, are welcome in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u26	We're talking about Syrian refugees. Anyone who has fled Syria at this time or in recent years is a war fugitive. Those people either got bombs on their heads or were recruited for an army in which they were cannon meat. And so they and their families had to fear for their lives. If they have fled to the region in the last three or four years, they are refugees for violence. If they then spend two or three or four years in that region in a camp where it is unsafe, where there is no education and where there is no good health care, and from there they leave hopelessly for Europe, they are still war refugees for me and therefore welcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u27	That was a clear answer. In this respect, Mr Pechtold is almost worse than the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance or the Group of the Party of European Socialists in this area. Apologies to the colleagues. I can only conclude that Mr Pechtold says that he understands that, even if you are a so-called war fugitive, let's assume that it is once a real war fugitive; indeed, there are also those who are going from Syria to Turkey and are safe there, after spending a few years in a camp, going for that benefit, that welfare state and that welfare state in the Netherlands. This means that Mr Pechtold is putting a bomb under asylum policy and under our welfare state. Because he's actually saying, "Come on in; D66 welcomes you." That is not only irresponsible; this attitude of the representative of D66 is dangerous.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u28	My last answer. Do you know what's dangerous? Politicians who, on the basis of distorted, wrong facts, cause unrest and throw people's eyes in the sand. That's dangerous. For ten years, Mr Wilders, your bladder has not produced any solution. Mr President, if Mr Wilders says that the position of D66 is even more distant from him than that of GroenLinks and the SP, that is the best compliment he can make to me today.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u29	Finally. This isn't an answer again. The man is in real political trouble. I'm gonna interrupt him more often. That's successful. 'Cause you're standing there, Mr. Pechtold. With one-liners you blame me, you will strike me back now. The conclusion is that from D66 everyone can come. If you were a political refugee, you are welcome, but if you want to come here after a few years in a safe country for the benefit, you are also welcome! You're Saint Nicholas squared!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u30	Mr. Wilders, you can blow whatever you want. Fortunately, in this civilized country, in this decent country where you can say what you want and we have a debate, through a fair distribution system 7,200 people who were fleeing to the Netherlands. And we're going to take it properly and safely. Whatever you're blowing, it's gonna happen. Mr. Chairman. I was particularly surprised by the proposals made by the cabinet. Let me start with the end goal, the piece of VVD in this story. Refugees are only welcome if they have registered in safe countries such as Turkey. So the cabinet is going to regulate our asylum influx. Does the Prime Minister have any idea whether these third countries are waiting for that? Have they been approached for this agreement? I would like to be given an explanation of which countries are involved. The European external borders will also be closed. I find that an interesting exercise in the letter, with 13,000 kilometres of European border. How realistic is this? And what does the Prime Minister himself think of that? Does he really believe in this Fata Morgana of the VVD? Doesn't the mantra of "borders close" become the new "no money to the Greeks"? Fortunately, Europe will continue to serve as an overpressure valve. Yeah, that was really in the letter: pressure relief valve. An unsavory concept. This is about people, isn't it? Each year a fixed quota of refugees will be established in Europe, but what numbers does the cabinet intend? Then the piece PvdA in this story, namely the acute reception of refugees. My question is simple: are we going to take those 7,214 refugees now? Yeah, I hear the PvdA say. No, only under conditions, I hear the VVD say. Should Secretary of State Dijkhoff really say on Monday in Brussels: we will not take on extra refugees until you promise to close the European external borders in a few years' time? 'Cause that's the image I get. I'd like a response. The problem of refugees is not now served by the fact and the fact that they have been butchered and'maybe someday in the future'. The acute problems call for leaders with guts, for leaders who dare say yes. So say yes to Juncker's plan. Say yes to increasing the rescue capacity. Say yes to more financial support for countries in the region. And say yes to the relief of Greece and Italy. Say yes to those 7,214 extra refugees, because that's the least we can do here. Rather: do not pin on a number, but say generously yes to what is needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u31	Mr. Chairman. There are few subjects to think of where so many different problems and issues come together as in the debate on refugees. Think of the reasons for fleeing, such as war, persecution or poignant poverty, its causes, the involvement of the rest of the world in these causes, and its involvement in the solution to them. If there are as many conflicts and wars as there are now, if there are more than 60 million people on the run, then there is no other way than that refugees are asking for protection here too. You'll have to offer it. All these images, the stories and the human suffering affect you. It'll shut you up.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u32	Do you think I could come back to the fairy tale world one more time? Mr Roemer is talking about providing protection. If you come from Syria and go to Turkey or Greece, will you be safe? According to Mr Roemer, are these safe countries?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u33	Mr Wilders, I have just seen two of your interruptions. I've had it with that hypocrisy of yours.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u34	I'm asking you a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u35	Yes, and I'll answer you. In my own way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u36	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u37	I've had enough of this hypocrisy thing. Bombs are thrown on a powder keg, but then look away when refugee flows arise or people become victims. I have had it with you once again when there are finally proposals for fair trade in the world that can prevent people from fleeing. I have also had it with the fact that every time we want to make funds available to ensure that there is decent humane shelter, I see a Wilders across from me who says 'not my problem, figure it out, watch it all'. That's not my party. That's your party. And it disgusts me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u38	Sure, and that's why I'm representing the PVV and you're representing the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u39	Let's keep it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u40	Now we know what you're all fed up with. Maybe you could get the courtesy to answer my question right now. I understand that it is a difficult question to answer honestly, but I asked if you think that a refugee from Syria is safe in Turkey or Greece. Or do you think that's unsafe countries?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u41	I have spoken to refugees who have been in Jordan for a year and a half. That is an area you call safe, Mr Wilders. But there are one and a half million people in camps. There is no drinking and not enough food. The kids can't go to school. That too, Mr Wilders, is safety. That's human safety. My party stands for solidarity and human dignity. That means I'm not abandoning those people and those countries. Finally, Mr Wilders: yes, we too believe that you should be the first to ensure good reception in the region, but then you should be able to do so with the international community. Every time we discuss this, however, the PVV looks the other way. Then the PVV comes up with nice stories about the Efteling, but that doesn't help anyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u42	Okay, Madam President, now we're getting somewhere. Mr Roemer says that there are also human reasons for coming here, even if you are safe. The SP actually says: come, all of Africa, come to Europe. 'Cause I'm not saying I like that. It's not in large parts of the world. Mr Roemer, if your criterion is 'come but if it is not humane', you will go one step further...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u43	My criterion is...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u44	Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u45	...then Mr. Pechtold. My question is as follows. Suppose people from Syria come to Greece via Turkey, that happens a lot, we see that every day on TV, do you find that they are safe there? Do you think Greece is a safe country? I am not saying Jordan is a safe country or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u46	Mr Wilders, all you do is turn everyone against each other; again. The only thing you are saying is that it is not my problem, I am not looking at anything, I am not in favour of agreements with other countries and I am not in favour of sending money so that there is decent care somewhere in the region. You do call in a newspaper that bombs may be thrown on a powder keg, with all the consequences of that. You say don't look at me, but figure it out for yourself. I'm not gonna be a part of that. We're in favour of fair trade, so people don't run. We are in favour of dimming the war industry a little bit, so that people do not have to flee for that reason. And when people run, I'm in favour of... You can wave your hands if you don't like the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u47	I was looking at the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u48	I understand that you are not waiting for answers concerning solidarity and human dignity, because you are not one of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u49	Mr Roemer does not have the beginning of an answer either. He's waving his arms around.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u50	The one waving, you are.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u51	You're not getting out for a millimeter. You don't have the beginning of an answer. Apart from a number of you-bowls, you say, "Come to Europe." May I finally state what the SP-chooser thinks? Because I think you should be there on behalf of the electorate. Half the SP voters, 50%, say: no extra refugees in the Netherlands. And, Mr Roemer, 70% of the SP voters say that we need to re-introduce border controls and not include additional asylum seekers. They don't want this. Those people think that the money should be spent on them and on their care. They do not want us to spend billions and bring everyone to Europe. You represent everyone but your own voter by letting everyone come to Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u52	Let me deal with our own supporters. We do so regularly and rightly so. You cannot do that, Mr Wilders, because you have no supporters. You can talk very nicely about my supporters here, but we'll talk about that. My supporters represent human dignity and solidarity, there and here, Mr Wilders. We're not looking away. We don't put a bomb on a powder keg and then run very fast.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u53	May I have a moment before there's been a misunderstanding?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u54	Yeah, but this...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u55	We don't want to throw bombs on the Kruidvat, which is a store called "the Kruidvat," but on Syria.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u56	No, Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u57	No, it's really different. Speaking of fairy tales, you're busy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u58	Please continue with your speech, Mr Roemer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u59	Madam President, there is simply no quick and easy solution for the large number of refugees coming to Europe. But we must help those people and those countries in the region that receive millions of refugees. The SP has often visited the areas in the region, but also in centres here in the Netherlands. Then you can see that the Netherlands is already doing a lot. It is heartwarming to see how COA employees are doing, but also how people in the area provide support and help. When you talk to refugees, you hear their poignant stories. As I have just said, a Syrian told me that he had been in Lebanon for some time, but that the situation there was so bad that he decided to take the death road to Europe as it is called out there. This brings me to the government's letter. Does the Prime Minister believe that Syria's neighbouring countries can now take in more refugees? Has he consulted with the governments of Lebanon and Turkey to ask how they see this? Does he think that he is in any case in a position to tell a country like Lebanon, which is already receiving one and a half million refugees, that there is still room for improvement? Does the Prime Minister consult with countries such as Saudi Arabia and other rich Gulf states on how they take responsibility and on their contribution to the reception of refugees? We cannot solve this problem without being prepared to take care of part of that solution and to take care of people here. At the same time, we must not run away from asking people what this new influx of refugees means to our country. Are we ready to house a new influx of refugees? Is shelter a lasting response to war? Can we prevent and resolve more inequality and tension in our country? We must ask ourselves these questions. It is easy to be indifferent and to think that a fence to keep your country out of misery or to claim that keeping the borders closed is humane. However, it is also easy to be deaf to the questions and concerns people have. This plan of the VVD and the Labour Party raises expectations that cannot be fulfilled. It is not possible, because it calls on overburdened countries to do more when they are already unable to handle it. It shifts responsibility for care to countries that are already doing the utmost. The long-term proposal is the plan that Azmani of the VVD has already presented. Samsom said in March: "This goes against the international solidarity and mercy we stand for. It is also contrary to many international treaties. So we're not going to do that." Now, however, it is part of the decision. As with the bed-bath-bread chord, the ink is not yet dry or the plan is explained differently by both coalition parties. VVDs argue that the only way to talk about distributed reception in Europe is to close the border in the longer term. PvdA people say that redistribution is already being embraced by the cabinet and that the rest is for the long term. Finally, can the Prime Minister state what the government's position is? Is the redistribution of refugees dependent on the closure of borders in the longer term?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u60	Madam President. It is an uncomfortable truth, but it has to be said: we are talking today about an invasion, an Islamic invasion of Europe, of the Netherlands. Masses of young men of around 20 years of age with beards singing across Europe. It is an invasion that threatens our prosperity, our security, our culture and our identity. The lousy paper plan that the cabinet sent to the Chamber the day before yesterday does not solve the real problems we face. What are the facts? The fact is that borders remain wide open. The fact is that many asylum seekers are not pathetic at all, but economic asylum seekers. The fact is that I have just interrupted some of my colleagues about the fact that many asylum seekers from politically or economically safe countries are simply travelling because they want to make use of our welfare state, which will destroy them if we allow them to do so. It is also the fact that many thousands, hundreds of thousands, millions if we are not careful, will follow if we continue to do so. The fact is that, despite the letter from the cabinet, there will be no national border controls and Schengen will continue to exist. And the fact is that we will soon be the exact figure, I don't think we know yet about 8.000, 9.000, 10,000 additional asylum seekers coming to the Netherlands. Thank you, VVD! This is on top of the already disastrous influx of 1,800 asylum seekers per week. The fact is that this joke is going to cost us billions of dollars in reception, benefits, care and so on. And the fact is that, on top of that, we are going to pay an additional EUR 110 million for shelter in the region, while the rich Saudis and the Gulf States are hardly receiving anyone. Three quarters of the boat migrants are male; three in four. There are twice as many men as women in the Dutch asylum-seekers' centres. There you are, in Rosmalen, with a bag full of collected hugs and toys, welcoming 500 adult men. It seems a tragic comedy, but it is the bitter reality.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u61	We are happy with Mr Wilders so far that he wants to talk mainly about facts. It's been different for years. But when we talk about the facts and Mr Wilders is talking about an invasion, can he tell me what percentage of the European population we are talking about when it comes to the people coming from those countries across the Mediterranean? What percent is that, the invasion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u62	It'll be millions. You can ask for a percentage, I'll give you an answer in absolute numbers. I'm glad you asked, because a lot of people at home don't know that. The German Chancellor, Mrs Merkel, has indicated that Germany can welcome 800,000 people in the coming year. Let me talk about an average, about the practice. If all these people are now bringing two people here for family formation and reunification, we are talking about 2.5 million people in Germany in a year. The Netherlands currently has 1,800 asylum seekers per week. That's over 90,000 a year. If on average these people make two family-makers happen again, we are talking about more than a quarter of a million a year. 3 million in Germany, a quarter million in the Netherlands. Mr. Pechtold, that's an invasion, whether you like it or not. We cannot do that, Europe cannot do that, Germany cannot do that, and we will have to do something about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u63	First of all, the numbers in the nineties were higher than what we are experiencing now. That wasn't an invasion, because I don't feel like we've changed all of a sudden since the 1990s. Secondly, what is now coming to us about the Mediterranean is 0.07% of the European population. I don't think that's an invasion either. But where Mr Wilders now wants to talk about facts and now himself says to others that they are not answering, he does not answer, because these are the facts. Does Mr Wilders deny that these are the facts and that he is therefore doing fear-mongering?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u64	You really should come up with some originals sometime. Just now you weren't too strong in your answers and now you're repeating the same song you've been doing here for 35 years. It's not fearmongering, it's the facts. I can't repeat the facts enough. In Germany, there are 1 million people in one year. The German Chancellor says so himself. That's 3 million if they do what they normally do, which is to make two people happen. In the Netherlands there are 1,800 per week. Three asylum seekers' centres per week will be added in the Netherlands. That's 90,000 people a year, that's 250,000 in one year when they make people happen. Who's gonna tell who that's not an invasion? That is an invasion, we cannot deal with it, and that is why we are debating it here. If you deny that, Mr Pechtold, or if you try to conjure up numbers, then you are not worth a snipe and you are denying all the problems. I understand that, because you want everyone to come to the Netherlands, as we have just heard.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u65	The magician's over there. He magics with the numbers and starts screaming louder and louder. That is not generally strong in the debate. In the meantime, he has very vicious intercessions, such as "they're men with beards" and "they're more men than women."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u66	Oh, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u67	What's worse now? A man with a beard or a guy with colored hair? What difference does that make when you're on the run?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u68	Well, do you know what the difference is? That those men with beards often sing "Allahoe akbar"-like songs. I saw it last week. Mr Pechtold saw it from his study, but I myself was in Budapest last week. I've seen them walking down the street, thousands of men, all young men around 20, 25 years old. I've seen maybe two women for 15 minutes in a stream of thousands of men. Young men, making selfies, shouting Allahoe akbar and screaming. That's the practice. Don't tell me I'm making that up, because those are the facts. They are coming here, and they are not all political refugees at all. And even if they were, they're safe there. They have no reason to come here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u69	Allahoo akbar means something like "God be praised." That is what we would say at the moment that we survived and are on the other side of the water.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u70	A very funny joke.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u71	But Mr Wilders himself does not come up with a solution. Mr Wilders lives in the illusion that you can put a fence around Europe, a fence around the Netherlands. Then I would like to confront him with the example he used here in the debate after debate, from Australia. Australia today gives 12,000 Syrians to bring all the way to their country. You can't get to Australia with a boat. What is Wilders' reaction to this, where he has always mentioned Australia as an example?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u72	No, Mr President, I did not mention Australia as an example when it comes to bringing people to that country. The PVV has mentioned Australia as an example because it still sends people who come illegally by boat to Australia back via the pushback method, because Australia doesn't know human smugglers, because Australia doesn't know dead and drowned people, because people know that if they're illegal we're talking about illegally coming to Australia to apply for asylum, they're being sent back. This means that they are not going to run the risk, because they know that it is not going to work, that they are not giving money to the smugglers and that they are not drowning people either. That's a social policy. If Australia is now saying that it is legal to take on a number of people, it is allowed to do so, but we should not follow that example.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u73	Even if the lie is so fast, the truth will get to him. If Mr Wilders is talking about facts, he really should take a closer look at those facts. Time and time again the example of the Arab Gulf states is given. I would ask Mr Wilders if he is aware of what the Arab Gulf States are doing about the flow of refugees at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u74	Nothing, except giving money. I am talking about the reception of asylum seekers and I am talking about Gulf States such as Qatar and Saudi Arabia. I'll get back to you on that. They give money, granted, but they do absolutely not do enough when it comes to receiving people.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u75	So that's not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u76	That's true.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u77	No, that's not true. In the Arab Gulf States, they have a very different system than in Europe. Is Mr Wilders aware, for example, of the fact that Saudi Arabia, a country that Mr Wilders repeatedly abhors and tries to dispose of, has received half a million Syrian refugees? Is he aware of that? Recently, that message was on the BBC, a reliable state channel. Is Mr Wilders aware of this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u78	Even if that were true, it would be completely inadequate. They should go massively to a country with their culture, their language, their faith, whatever you call it. They should collect millions that are coming and coming here now, instead of what they're doing now. It's a goddamn game they're not doing right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u79	Do you know what's completely out of order, Mr. Chairman? This "own people first" story that Mr Wilders is holding. Where is your humanity? Where is your heart, Mr. Wilders? Answer that and be merciful. How would you react if hell broke loose on our continent and we had to resort to other countries? What would you do? Be a piece of humanity, be a merciful; come on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u80	I shall continue my speech, Mr President. Reception in the region...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u81	Mr Klaver also has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u82	The harder you talk, the harder you're gonna be, you're not gonna get right. I have a question for Mr Wilders about security in the region and in those camps. Mr Wilders said that if you're in Turkey, it's just safe. But is it safe if 80% of children are unable to attend education? Is it safe for the World Food Programme to stop aid to a third of the refugees? Is it safe to fear rape and abuse as a woman in such a camp? Is it safe in those places? Is that what Mr Wilders would call safe?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u83	Turkey is a safe country, Greece is a safe country, Macedonia is a safe country, Serbia is a safe country, Hungary is a safe country. In most of the countries I have just mentioned, what you have just said will not happen. These are countries that people are going through today to end up in Germany, Finland, Sweden or the Netherlands. I'm saying you're not a political fugitive. Then you're an economic happiness seeker. When it comes to safety, you stay in Turkey or, if we do not agree, in Greece, because they are safe countries. Then you don't have to travel. If you do, you're an economic refugee and not a political refugee.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u84	Even sending refugees back to Greece is almost gone, because the situation there is so poignant. I'm gonna go back. We were talking about reception in the region. That's what the plan is about: the refugee camps that are there. I'll outline the numbers. You can say that these countries are safe, but let us talk about the situation in which these refugees are in those camps. That's not safe. If you don't have food, if children can't go to school, if women are threatened in their safety, can't you speak of a safe situation? Mr. Wilders pretends to be some sort of Center Parcs and that you can find out in a brochure where you can go on holiday. They're not vacation camps. Those people are in a terrible situation. Then you can't blame them for trying to escape to the West, can you? How dare you say it's safe there? Then what is your view of safety?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u85	Two answers. The first is that the solution cannot be to bring them all here, because we cannot do that. There'll be millions of people. The second answer is: if you think it is not enough there, then you must move those Arab countries, these rich Gulf states, where the police are driving around in Lamborghini's, to provide shelter. Then they'll have to provide education. Then they'll have to make sure they're safe. Then they must provide sufficient water. It's their region, it's their country, it's their people, they speak the same language, they have the same faith. Let her solve those problems. We can't take that on our plate. I am ashamed that I live in a country where we have a prime minister who kicks the old people of the Netherlands out of the nursing home. We live in a country like this. I cannot explain that we are taking our elders, while you are taking me here to the refugee camps in Jordan. First, take care of our own people. And let her take care of their own people.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u86	They're our children, they're our people. How can you say that it is only a responsibility of the Gulf States? We find each other very quickly when it comes to the scandal that people are not being taken care of by those countries in that region, that those countries are looking away. But how can you say that it is not our children who drown or who cannot attend education or who cannot live in safety? They're our kids. We must take responsibility for this. If you are really consistent, Mr Wilders, and you do not want the people here, then you should increase the development budget by billions to ensure that the situation in those countries will improve, but you will not. This is very cheap.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u87	Reception in the region isn't worth anything with open borders. That is why we can throw the cabinet's letter in the trash. What also stands out is that the word "terror" does not appear once in the letter. I didn't hear a colleague talk about it. Islamic State has already indicated that thousands of terrorists are being sent along. Even Eurojust's boss said they're among the refugees. Jihadists and terrorists are already in Europe, ready to attack. I'm asking the Cabinet to answer that. Don't shut up about it. Don't wait for the next hit. We must close the Dutch borders, we must send asylum seekers back. Let them indeed go back to those rich Gulf states like Dubai, where the police drive around in Ferrari's. It's their region, their people, their faith, their culture. It is always best for the so-called refugees to be taken care of there. What I say here in this house, in this Chamber, may be an uncomfortable, annoying truth, but fortunately more and more Dutch people see it. Surveys show that more than half say no to additional asylum seekers. Two thirds of the Dutch want to re-introduce border controls. Even a majority of PvdA and SP voters say: re-enter border controls. But everyone's looking the other way here. The asylum system, which is getting worse if we do nothing or come up with weak measures as this cabinet is doing, is going to cost us billions. The sheltersunami will disrupt our society. We need the money for our own people. Our Christian culture can be put in the garbage and we are gradually being Islamicized. That is why I say stop building asylum-seekers' centres. Prime Minister, choose your own country. Choose the Dutch. Close the Dutch borders. Stand up for your own country, for your people and for your culture. Do that, because enough is enough!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u88	Mr. Chairman. Europe is being flooded. We are talking about a migration of people. 1 800 asylum seekers are added every week in the Netherlands. There may be 1 million asylum seekers moving to Germany. I deliberately use the word 'asylum seekers', because it is not or hardly real refugees. Many asylum seekers in Northern Europe come from the Balkans. What war are they fleeing from? It has just been said: Syrians staying in Turkey are safe. They don't come to the Netherlands or Germany for their safety, but for a home and a benefit, and then make the whole family come across. That's the uncomfortable truth. Part of it comes even before our destruction. Islamic State already claims to have smuggled 4,000 jihadists into Europe. But the predominantly left-wing media are trying to tell us that this is only about refugees. Arnon Grunberg states in the Volkskrant that critics would see asylum seekers as Untermenschen. Public service broadcasting is working overtime. But most Dutch people aren't crazy. Two thirds of them want to close the borders for asylum seekers. Two thirds of them want to denounce the Schengen Convention. The governments of Hungary and the Czech Republic also use their common sense. Then enlargement to include Central and Eastern European countries has been good for something. However, the rest of the European governments are being held hostage by Germany's collective guilt. This is not a European problem but a German problem. Our group only wants shelter in its own region. That is what we pay EUR 200 million a year for. But Saudi Arabia, Kuwait and Qatar, three rock-rich Gulf States, are doing virtually nothing. There is hardly any solidarity within the Islamic world. Reception in the region means no drowning in the Mediterranean. As horrible as the image was, it's exactly like Bart De Wever said: "That dead toddler is not our fault." Should the cabinet continue with this dangerous policy and should the cabinet not explicitly state that the arrival of thousands of new asylum seekers will stop, our group will have no choice but to table a motion of censure in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u89	Mr. Chairman. The chaos in countries such as Iraq, Syria and Libya has made millions of people refugees. All European countries and countries in the region have a responsibility to provide a safe haven to those who have nowhere else to go. At the same time, we see that the strength of our society is being tested. Greece, Italy, Germany and Austria sigh under the influx and often can't take it anymore. The question we face as far as the CDA is concerned is how the moral duty of a rule of law to provide for displaced persons can be brought into line with our responsibility to make refugee policy and our society sustainable and sustainable. In order to do so in the long term, we will not escape looking at the source as well. We wonder where the refugees are going, but above all we must realise where they come from. We need to get to the source. The arm of the jihadists in that belt of failed states around Europe extends to us, through their terror with us, through the barbarism there and by the travellers of our part of the world who then return with war experiences. The jihadists there are fighting against our values and everything we stand for. That is why they will eventually have to be defeated. In that light, it is intolerable that the Netherlands should leave the military approach of IS in Syria to others. In Iraq, we're in, but in Syria, we're watching. In the meantime, Dutch international law experts have said that intervention can be legal. I therefore ask the Prime Minister whether he is finally prepared to use our F-16s over Syria. That doesn't solve the problem. The road to it is long and difficult. It costs blood, sweat and tears, but the international community will eventually have to realize that it may be necessary to bring safety on the ground as well. We will also have to have the willingness to do so, at least by creating safe areas in a country like Syria. Call it "safe ports" where justice and security can be restored under European or UN auspicions. Once again, we do not tackle the source, then the problem remains with us. The Prime Minister writes in the letter we received on Tuesday that the core of the approach must be to tackle the root causes. So I share that view, but what does the Prime Minister mean by that? The letter deals with two other things: the short-term redistribution of refugees in Europe and the long-term registration and reception of refugees in the region. Dutch politics has been looking for opportunities for more shelter in the region for much longer. If I say at the beginning of my speech that we are testing the strength of our society, then we must move towards more shelter in the region. However, the Prime Minister also knows that, in the long term, the end of direct reception, as described by the VVD and is now constantly being put in the explanatory memorandum of the letter, 'the European external borders are closing'. That's not gonna happen. That's just never gonna happen. It's just another empty promise from this Prime Minister. The question is what Europe will have to deliver in the short term, because it will remain foggy. What does the Cabinet want Monday for the long-term solution to agree in the short term? In itself shelter in the region as a goal is nothing new. The Prime Minister's often publicly wronged cabinet-Balkenende IV was already working on this and has already asked for an opinion. It's ready, Prime Minister! You can just run it, but you won't, because you don't want to. You only want one thing: that people think you're solving it. You're not interested in a real solution. If that were the case, the letter would say: we are going to amend the Refugee Convention and we are going to amend the legislation. I'm a little distracted by screams from the audience, Mr. Chairman. That says more about the screamers than about the speaker, I must say. If the cabinet really wanted a solution, it would suggest tackling the Refugee Convention. I will tell the Prime Minister why this would be necessary later in the interruptions, because I do not have time for this anymore. But apparently, anything can be done without amending the Refugee Convention. Then the border stays open! In fact, the Treaty contains an obligation to include. The CDA would like to amend the UN Refugee Convention, because it is only when you do that that you can go to shelter in the region. Only then will you be able to allow the shelter to be temporary. That is the second thing that the letter has to say about. The Netherlands is the next President of the European Union. That's when we can really do business. So far, there have been some vague commitments about what we are going to do in that six months. I say to this Prime Minister: put the refugee issue at the top of the agenda, put reception in the region at the top of the agenda. If this is not well organised after six months, then the presidency of this Prime Minister has become one big farce.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u90	Mr. Chairman. Society has been touched in the heart. A lot of people want to take refugees into their homes, and people send stuff to the COA massively. Over the past period, we have seen a roll-over in public opinion. Asylum seekers are no longer seen as happiness seekers and people we need to keep out, but as fellow people we need to help. This sends a very clear signal to the Netherlands. It says no to the PVV. This power of society is opposed to the inability of politics. In Europe, countries point to each other. It's self-interest first. Many countries, too many countries say "less, less, less" instead of "more, more, more." I would like some politicians, like many citizens in our country, to find their hearts back. What exactly is to be done? Do not stir up unrest in the region. Don't sneak up on me. The bombs that fall on Iraq have led directly to the rise of ISIS. The war on terror only provokes terror. Ensure better reception in the region. Millions of people are received in Turkey, Lebanon, Jordan and Saudi Arabia, but the images of tent camps are degrading. As far as Europe's absorption capacity is concerned, I think we can still handle a lot. However, if a moment is ever reached, one could also think of building a safe city in Europe, a city where political refugees can live and work from scratch. Make sure that political refugees can only sign up for this safe city in the region. Coming to Europe in a rickety boat won't work anymore. The refugees who are still coming to the Netherlands should be able to go to school and work here during their asylum procedure. Those people have plenty of work experience that we need to make use of. I'm closing up. The Netherlands must become a frontrunner in Europe. The Netherlands must do more than average, much more. That is what many citizens want and that is what politicians should do.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u91	Madam President. Where's this going? How long is this gonna take? Can we handle this? Those questions are very much alive, first of all among refugees in search of a better future. Those same questions also live with citizens who see refugee flows coming towards them. Embarrassment with overwhelming problems should not lead to paralysis or hardening. We can't just close our borders and we can't just close our hearts. The stranger who knocks in need deserves generous innancy. This is also part of the Christian culture that has so much stamped our continent. The Netherlands has taken in many refugees in recent years. In the first half of this year, the Netherlands offers shelter to more than 7,000 Syrians alone. So a lot of good is happening. Unfortunately, that still turns out to be just a drop in a bucket. The fact that we must open our hearts to refugees does not mean that the door to asylum policy must also be wide open. The government has an independent role in this. It is important that the government remains critical and cautious. Why, for example, should the northern countries receive a lot of people from the Balkans, from Serbia? They are also in the large groups that are now heading towards Europe. Why do we have to catch strangers from safe African countries without war? Poor is something completely different than unsafe. The integration of groups far removed from our culture can also give rise to a lot of tension and frustration. It is also realistic to have an eye for that. This is disappointing both for our society and for these foreigners. That is why it is important for the government within Europe to make every effort to ensure that those who can go back really go back. Those who do not have to come here must be discouraged in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u92	I welcome the colleague's contribution. But the debate is also meant to see if we all mean the same thing. Mr Van der Staaij now says: we must beware of people with a different culture. I take it a little raw, but he does suggest that we should be careful not to disrupt it. In part, I can even go along with him: you have to be careful that the basis is there. But some European politicians distinguish between refugees who are Christians and Muslims. Do you think that the Netherlands should make that distinction?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u93	You cannot simply distinguish between religion and that is not desirable when it comes to helping people in need. Last year I spoke in general terms about the merciful Samaritan, who did not look at what religion that man had on the ground. Every fellow man is our neighbor, everyone in need must be helped. At the same time, however, more and more radical Islamic ideas are emerging in Europe, which is a worrying phenomenon. I say first of all: keep an eye on whether there is a threat, including in the context of asylum procedures. Think of ISIS. Another example in which you may have an eye for the consequences of people's religion is invited refugees. In the case of invited refugees from the region, we see a group of Christians who are having a particularly difficult time, a risk group in the region itself. It's hard to say to a runaway Syrian Christian: boy, isn't Saudi Arabia a nice shelter for you? If that Syrian Christian is happy that there is another Europe that has been marked by Christianity, then it is very sad to say as Europe: we are no longer Christian, we no longer distinguish by religion. Then please let the Christian Syrian refugee have an extra chance in Europe. Then it would be so nice if a party like D66 were to say that we understand that, and that is not just discrimination, but that is for the people who need the help of Europe more, as they are less able to go to the region, while these people are often better suited to our culture. That's what I see all around me. They can cause less problems of integration.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u94	We don't just get each other, we agree for a large part. I think that's important. I think that in our invitation policy we look closely at people who are more welcome in one country than in another because of various circumstances. I am very pleased with the commitment of Mr Van der Staaij, who does not look at backgrounds at the time when people are coming. I think that is very important, but at the time when we can make agreements with other countries, especially those in great need that we are going to meet ourselves, I do not mind at all that you are looking closely at them. We're gonna meet for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u95	That'd be great. I have indicated that we should not be under any illusions when it comes to solutions to global problems. Reality is broken and unbearable. I can say this for all the more reason because I have been here since 1998. About all the things that are now being said all came along in 1998, 2000 and 2005, including the commitment to more scrutiny and reception in the region and the need to adapt the refugee treaty. I agree with that, because that treaty is no longer in line with the reality that we are facing today in Europe. It is good to focus much more on monitoring and reception in the region itself. At the same time, we have no illusions: this is an extremely slow and fragile process. But I think it is fine if the cabinet wants to continue working on this in Europe. The cabinet has our support when it comes to considering how to adapt all kinds of European frameworks. In the end, it also calls for an approach whereby the region not only assumes much more responsibility, which is already happening, but also receives support. Is the cabinet in Europe going to argue that the financial resources needed by the UN should also be provided? And are the Gulf States also being called upon to assume their responsibilities? I have another question which is also important for financing. It is said that we must agree on the redistribution within Europe so that certain countries at the borders of Europe are not unduly taxed. In itself, I understand that line in the current emergency situation, but will the cabinet prevent the costs of receiving these people in the Netherlands from being further charged to the development cooperation budgets, for projects that address problems in the region? We would regret that. I have already said that in resettlement policy we must pay particular attention to vulnerable groups. In the letter, the cabinet appoints the lhbt'ers, but we still miss the plightous, seriously threatened position of Christians. I believe that I can say with Mr Pechtold, after the interruption debate just now, that on behalf of D66 we would also like to pay a little more attention to the reconfirmation of the Christian refugees. I hear Mr Pechtold now saying that this also applies to the IBTs. They were already in the letter. That usually goes well, but for the Christians you often have to put a little bit more on top of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u96	Mr. Chairman. What are we willing to do? That is the question before us today. The issue of refugees, which has been a major issue for many years, has come very close. Although it is still a limited group in relation to the total number of refugees in the world, more and more refugees are coming towards Europe. We know the footage, not just of the boy on the beach. The refugee problem and issue has become increasingly face-to-face. Honesty commands me to say that sometimes it feels uncomfortable. Especially when we ask "what to do?" not only address the government but also try to answer personally. I hope that everyone will take due account of that and see what is possible in the personal situation. I have seen some good examples of this, starting in the city where I live and again receiving hundreds of refugees. What does our government do? Since Tuesday we know that, at least: we have a letter. The good news is that the Netherlands is ready to join the redistribution of refugees in Europe in the short term. That has the support of the Christian Union. In this situation, it is inevitable and sensible to deal with this with other European countries. But even if that were not possible, I would ask the cabinet to follow Germany's example and to consider generously what proportion of the refugee flows we can absorb. The cabinet has also developed a long-term vision. In short, it means that the reception and screening of refugees outside Europe should take place. There are questions about the reality of the long-term vision. Millions of refugees have already been received in countries such as Lebanon, Jordan and Turkey. Treaties must be amended, as was pointed out at a hearing yesterday. But if it works, we'll be years away. If the cabinet in Europe does not get its hands on it, and the first signs point to this, do we not agree with the redistribution in Europe? Surely it is not true that we will then run away from our responsibility to contribute to tackling the current refugee problem? The cabinet wants more shelter in the region. We know that's where the focus is right now. We also know that this shelter is often inadequate. What is needed is a greater contribution from the Netherlands and other countries to that reception. Then the proposed 110 million is really too small. There is already a deficit of nearly 3 billion dollars for the reception of Syrians in the region. More money is needed, not only for food and drink, but also for health care and education for children. It is precisely the absence of this good reception that set the feet of many refugees in motion, in particular a few weeks ago, when the World Food Programme had to drastically reduce aid because of the lack of sufficient donor funds. And that situation occurred at the end of last year. What is the government's view of addressing the problem itself, the situation in Syria and the fight against ISIS there? How far does the Netherlands want to go? As far as we are concerned, we should give room for bombing in Syria itself, naturally framed in a clear strategy. What are we willing to do? My group sees the approach to the refugee problem as a national matter and would like to support it together with the cabinet and with as many other parties as possible, but also with society where so many people are already ready to contribute or already do something. For this reason, I sincerely hope that the cabinet proposals as we have received and are now discussing are more than pacifying disagreements in the coalition and that there is room for adjustments where necessary and possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u97	Mr. Chairman. Nowhere are compassion and sustainability as closely related as in the solution of the refugee problem. Some speak of a refugee crisis, but there is still no turning point in the refugee problem. The number of refugees is swelling. However, the breeding ground for the problems experienced by refugees is not addressed in any way, let alone eliminated. Political compromises of the level "we first temporarily open the borders and then lock them forever" show how much PvdA and VVD have been ruled out. Even if they mop with the tap open, they cannot agree on the colour of the mop. Conflicts and wars in refugee countries of origin are increasingly caused by food scarcity resulting from climate and water problems. NATO provides water wars. Columbia University investigations call the Syrian civil war a climate war. Mr Juncker rightly said yesterday that climate change, global warming, leads to irreversible migration movements from south to north. Not the people who flee home and fireplace are the happiness seekers; the people who drill far from home to oil, extract green beans from poor countries where there is drought, who cut down rainforests to grow cattle feed, are the lucky ones. These are our lucky seekers, who make us consume as if we had four globes at our disposal, and thereby bring bad luck to places that until recently seemed to be far from our bed, bath and bread. Our prosperity rests on the shoulders of the weakest and on the stocks of future generations. Redistributing the flow of refugees across Europe could prove to be a wishful thinking, because the EU has free movement of people. How do you prevent refugees who are granted residence status in Bulgaria, Hungary or Romania from going to Austria, Germany or any other European country at any time? However, if redistribution fails, this could seriously undermine the support base for reception. Shared solidarity and responsibility must be tough. That is why I would also like to hear from the cabinet to what extent Europe's plans and its own plans are realistic? Compassion and sustainability in cohesion can help people in need now and will soon have no reason to flee their own country. Mercy now and as soon as possible a sustainable planet, that is the order. I would like to hear from the cabinet whether there is a willingness to sustainably remove the ground for the flow of refugees through a different industrial policy, through a different commercial policy and through another political climate in which compassion and sustainability are the starting point. That is why I believe that the bio-industry must be stopped.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u98	Mr. Chairman. Nobody stays in a country where death, torture, rape and starvation are the future. We read about refugees, but we're talking about people. They're people who want to give themselves and their children a future. Isn't that what we all want? So what's stopping us? The fear of people from another country? The fear of sharing? Are we really able to show solidarity and provide people with basic needs such as safety, food and a roof over the head, whether in the Netherlands or elsewhere in the world? We can do a lot, and morally we're obliged to do that. We consider ourselves to be solidarity, liberal and humanitarian. Of course, our group opts for good reception in the region and for combating smuggling and dramatic boating and hiking. But the Netherlands can't do it alone. This must be done at European level, so we must opt for Juncker's plan unconditionally. I'll be on the cabinet letter. What additional proposals does the cabinet have in mind? What are the deadlines? And what legal consequences are there? Rounding up. We can contribute our stone. And not a cowardly pebble to get off easily, but the heaviest stone we can lift. If we do that together, the weight isn't so bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u99	Mr. Chairman. Last week I stood here with a cry of hearts: it must be over. In our Europe no children die during a desperate crossing. In our Europe there are no families in Hungarian stations. In our Europe of justice, solidarity and mercy, we take care of those who need protection and give a joint response to the causes of the flow of refugees. That Europe is far away, embarrassingly far away. It's getting closer now. Yesterday, the European Commission presented a package that should form the basis for a joint response from 28 European Member States. It is an answer that must be given with great urgency. As far as we are concerned, the Netherlands must play a leading role. The Labour Party therefore welcomes the letter from the Cabinet. It is a welcome attempt not only to solve acute problems at great speed, but also to look further at the long term. The immediate response concerns the current flow of refugees through Europe, with poignant situations on the Greek islands, the un-European hostility in Hungary and a lorry of killed refugees in Austria. Please make that stop. This can be done by providing European aid with great speed for the reception of the overstretched borders of Greece, Italy and Hungary, and by a fair distribution of the flow of asylum. This no longer means the Europe of every man for himself, but a common approach. It is something the Labour Party has been advocating for some time now. The cabinet is right to point out that after this step, which solves the worst need, a more structural approach is actually preferable, in which there really is a single European asylum policy. We wholeheartedly support that idea. I would point out that such an approach also creates obligations in the Netherlands. The reception, integration and housing of all these new people must be properly regulated. However, a response to the flow of refugees in Europe is not yet a response to the flow of refugees beyond Europe. A redistribution of refugees from Kos had not prevented the deadly journey of the boy Aylan to Kos. That takes more than that. For this, we must support the largest group of refugees. Those are those who are in the immediate vicinity of Syria, i.e. Turkey, Lebanon or Jordan. We have to give them perspective. The proposal to invest more in safe care in the region is not new, but this time it is being done with more force by the cabinet. This is not just about safety and care, but also about perspective, such as education and work. It's about time. What is even more important is the proposal to structurally increase the possibilities for asylum applications in Europe from the region. This could be an important element in dismantling human trafficking.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u100	My question is best introduced by the last sentences that Mr Samsom said. We offer the possibility of applications in the countries of the region. Now the VVD, who is also in this coalition, says that this letter means that the European borders are closing and that no one is getting in through the normal route. Is that the explanation to be given to this letter?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u101	No, that letter states that the possibilities for resettlement should be increased. Those possibilities are already there. We're all happy about that. Many of us thought that these possibilities were too small. We have had debates on this before. Those possibilities need to be increased drastically. In addition, of course, there is a need to increase reception in the region itself, where there are the largest numbers of refugees. If all this succeeds, the consequence may be that, if asylum applications are still made in Europe, the asylum seeker will be referred back to that safe third country on the basis of the safe third country principle. That's not new. This has been the practice in Europe for many years. We have recently amended laws for which the Chamber was almost unanimous. Ironically, only the PVV was against it. So we have had that principle for a long time. The problem, of course, is that few countries comply with that principle. Norway and Switzerland are safe third countries. The cabinet's aim is to eventually achieve a situation in which this also occurs in countries closer to the fireplaces. In this case, Turkey could be such a country, but we are not yet there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u102	This is a very long story, but not an answer to my question. So I am not asking a new question, but I am asking for an answer. The explanation of the VVD is: if it succeeds, all European borders will be closed and no more applications will be required. Does the PvdA give the exact same explanation? To that question would like to hear "yes" or "no."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u103	No, we'll give you the explanation in the letter. This means that if the situation occurs in the region, an application for asylum based on the safe third country principle may lead to referral back to the asylum seeker. Moreover, applications from refugees from parts of the world where there is no safe reception are being considered in Europe. This is always done on the basis of current European agreements and refugee treaties. That's what the letter says. That explanation seems clear to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u104	In conclusion, there are already two letters. One says that Europe's borders are closing and the other doesn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u105	There is only one letter and it does not say that the European borders are closing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u106	That's obvious. Then the VVD is wrong. I'll ask you later. I have another question about safe third countries. Is the PvdA prepared to substantially adjust the criteria we have for safe countries? If Mr Samsom answers that, my last question will get over it. In this way, he is already prepared for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u107	The criteria for this have been laid down many years ago. They are adjusted occasionally, but generally upwards. The world is moving forward. We demand more in terms of security and opportunities for asylum in, for example, Turkey or other countries. No, that doesn't seem obvious to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u108	I don't really have to ask a question right now. My point is: there is no letter with that. Because the safe third countries criterion is about countries that have at least signed up to the Refugee Convention. That's the criterion. If Mr Samsom does not want to change that, that is not going to happen. Jordan did not endorse it. Saudi Arabia did not endorse it. Lebanon did not endorse it. The Emirates didn't endorse it. And those smart Turks have endorsed it in such a way that it only applies to refugees coming from Europe. I can tell you one thing, Mr Samsom: all these countries are not going to sign up to the Refugee Convention. Because if they did, they would have to give all these millions of refugees the same rights we give refugees in the Netherlands. They must be entitled to all aliens' things within three years. That's not gonna happen. Thanks to this reply from Mr Samsom, the whole letter is therefore completely empty.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u109	A few years ago, Turkey had not signed up to the Refugee Convention, and it has now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u110	What country?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u111	Turkey.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u112	I am going to say what Turkey has done, because this is about the essence of that letter. Turkey has done very cleverly. It has, however, endorsed the Refugee Convention, and I should not tell you this, because that letter is written there and not here, but Turkey has endorsed the Convention in such a way that it applies to refugees as provided for in the old 1951 Convention, the European Refugee Convention. However, that is not intended for Syrians, so it does not apply at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u113	This debate has been going on with Turkey for a long time. It has now led to half a step forward and perhaps half a step further. It is not the only step that needs to be taken in Turkey. This question raises questions for me again. Should we not want Turkey to continue to improve reception? Should we not want there to be safe shelter in Turkey for those people from Syria most of whom do not reach Europe, because they want to stay close to the country they ever want to go back to? Shouldn't we want to? Shouldn't that be the goal? What has happened to our idealism for dealing with this great problem? I am glad that idealism, ambition and ambition are in the cabinet letter. I wholeheartedly endorse that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u114	There are two things on the table now. Firstly, the problems that we now have to solve urgently. I think that we are getting a long way together on that point. Secondly, what are we doing for the longer term? The VVD was very clear about this; I have heard the chairman of the group and the Secretary of State. The chairman of the group said it very clearly: it is being linked. It's nice when you read what that long-term plan is in the letter; that's one-on-one the Azmani plan. I thought: wait a minute, we had that in March, and Mr Samsom was very clear about that. He said that the VVD plan is totally unacceptable, it runs counter to all international solidarity and the mercy we stand for, and it is also contrary to many international treaties. Now it's just part of the answer. What happened to Mr Samsom?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u115	What is in the letter is in line with the international treaties. I quote from the letter: 'If they come from parts of the world where safe reception and adequate procedures are available, I have just spoken with Mr Buma about.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. That is the current practice of European asylum policy, for many years. It is the basis of the Dublin agreements and of the way in which we deal with countries such as Norway, for example. The fact that this situation is not yet there will not deny anyone unless he has lived under a stone and that we are still a long way from that, unfortunately, is also the case. But this does not mean that we can sit on our hands and wait for millions of people there to be so desperate that they buy a boat, drive the crossing and lie dead on a beach. We are obliged to do everything we can to ensure that conditions for those people improve in Turkey and also in Jordan and Lebanon. Mr Rutte will be sitting at the table with 27 colleagues. I cannot imagine that one of those 28 would have any hesitation in underlining this plan. This is what we have to do. We must invest in that region and ensure that people get perspective there. There are millions of people without perspective and sometimes even without water and health care. We have a duty to resolve this, and if we can solve it, we can do even more. Then we can also arrange education and then we can arrange housing there. And if we can do that, maybe we can do more. Then we can make agreements with countries such as Turkey, Lebanon and Jordan so that they deal with the refugees properly as Norway and Switzerland do. If we can do that, we are in the situation we really want to achieve.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u116	I understand Mr Samsom's passion when he talks about what we all see. I have one too. Everyone here has one, I hope. No one's waiting for footage of any more slips washed up. However, we are faced with the question of what message we are sending the cabinet to Brussels. Yes, I hope it will come back with something to help all those people and that it will come up with solutions, but my question is what we are going to do for the long term. I've read the papers, I've heard the statements, and I've seen them in the picture. For the VVD it is clear: a border around Europe. No one gets in there anymore; we send the people back to the safe areas. That's the Azmani plan. A few months ago this was unacceptable, antisocial and I do not know what Mr Samsom called it all, but now he is embracing it. Then he can say that he does not go into this and then he can keep an emotional story about the photos we see, but the Labour Party is closing the borders for the longer term. After all, the VVD connects it: we do nothing here now if it is not linked to each other. So be honest about that and say: I have had to negotiate, I have had to admit and we have lost that thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u117	You are making an inimitable exit towards the VVD. You are opposed to the Chairman of the Labour Party. You must ask me what my interpretation of that letter is. I read you that letter just now, but you immediately walked into another corner of the room. Please answer my quote from that letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u118	Well, it makes sense...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u119	No, Mr Samsom has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u120	It says quite clearly: "Ask for refugees from parts of the world where safe reception is not available will be dealt with in substance in Europe." It is quite clear that a balance is being made on individual grounds, in line with the European and international refugee conventions. It also says very clearly that we are striving for it, and why shouldn't we? I would like to point out that the situation in Turkey, Lebanon and Jordan is going to be such that you could indeed speak of a safe third country. At present, the European Commission is putting Turkey on the list of countries of safe origin. That's step one. There are also criteria to this. They are less heavy, because of course they only apply to the Turkish people themselves, but nevertheless, Turkey insists. The cabinet rightly has some reservations about this, if you look at how Turkey deals with people. But is that a reason not to take the step? Is that the reason to sit back and not talk to Turkey about how they deal with their people and, by the way, with refugees? No, and that's why the ambition that's in it is fine. This includes a final picture that leads to a safer world. In this respect, I admire the Prime Minister, who is always so opposed to such final images, that he has dared this time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u121	Finally, Madam President. Don't blame me for the confusion. There is a letter and I hear Mr Samsom now giving a completely different explanation than I have heard the VVDs on radio, television and in the newspaper. Fine, it's his answer and his assignment to the cabinet. I do not believe, however, that they can make gravy out of what they are about to do. So I'm curious to see what the cabinet will come up with later. Mr Samsom's story is clearly different. As for the VVD, I'm sorry, Mr Azmani, but your plan is still off the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u122	Normally I think it's okay if a colleague is passionate and even emotional, but this is a bit raw for me. For two years we are trying to have debates here with the PvdA. That's stopped by the coalition. We are just trying to ask written questions about the facts in order not to have to ask them all here, but the PvdA is stopping that. If you ask here about the contradiction between what the VVD and PvdA say about the same letter, you will just get two answers. Let me put it very briefly: a fair distribution means that 7,214 pounds, that number so accurate, but okay, may come to the Netherlands. Is that without condition, yes or no? And when does that happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u123	A fair distribution across Europe means that we are all part of it, otherwise it is not a fair distribution across Europe. And you know, 7.214 is so harsh that I will only repeat the number out of your mouth and will not mention it further myself. The point is that we have a fair distribution. That can also lead to more. There are already reports that the 160,000 that Mr Juncker is talking about is last month's figure. In the meantime more people are washed up, many of whom have happily survived the crossing. So it could be that those numbers are going to be different. For this, the next step, which the cabinet itself advocates, is to divide all refugees who apply for asylum in Europe. Also those reporting at Schiphol Airport, Frankfurt Airport or in the ports of Spain. Apply the same formula to that, so you get more people. Mr Pechtold wondered if this is the number. No, that's not the number. Because when it comes to refugees, it's about people and not about numbers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u124	That wasn't my question. I find it difficult for Mr Samsom or all of them to take side paths to the port of Spain................................................................................................................................................................................................ Even Wilders says he hates that image. Of course, we all do. We're not gonna bid on each other about that. My question concerns the technique of the letter. My question is what the cabinet is about to negotiate with. That is not clear at all, because Mr Samsom's group makes other statements.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u125	With this letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u126	Then I ask again: that number of 7,214, can they come here without condition? Does the Secretary of State and the Prime Minister agree to that distribution key without conditions? And don't say, "When everyone agrees." Because that is what qualified majority voting is about. There is one in Europe, so the Netherlands is not going to stand in the way of that. That's what my question is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u127	No, that's what it says here. The Netherlands is not going to stand in the way, of course not. The Netherlands is going to Europe with this commitment. The Netherlands very much wants us to come to this redistribution. The Netherlands even wants this redistribution to become more permanent and fundamental and we are finally going to work on the cause of the problem elsewhere in the region. In recent days, it has often been said that the Commission is not going to do that at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u128	I'm not asking for any of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u129	That's what you were asking. You'll get the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u130	This is the answer given by Mr Samsom.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u131	Is the cabinet going to Brussels with this commitment? Yes, with the commitment to make the redistribution work. The Netherlands, this cabinet as one of the few countries before the summer, by the way. The outcome was that it did not succeed because there was no qualified majority. The outcome for the Netherlands was that it was still very proud of it and I am proud of it unilaterally said: okay, but we do sign in for that number. That may be the outcome, but that is evident after these negotiations.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u132	The question isn't if I can read the letter. The letter reveals many points and many points are explained differently by representatives of two coalition parties in particular. There are quite a few. The question is what the letter means. I'll make it even clearer. The VVD says there will only be 7,200 if the borders close. Mr Samsom's short and long term is being exchanged. Over the long term, being the borders closed, Mogherini says in good Dutch: ammoistniet. She says that the countries there are already overloaded and that she is not going to do it. The High Representative says it's unworkable and we're not gonna do it. If that future music of the VVD, which is close to borders, doesn't work, are those 7,200 still welcome according to the redistribution? Yes or no? I don't need a trip, I just need to know if the 7,200 without conditions are welcome here and if the Cabinet is going to bring this in on our behalf on Monday.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u133	They're welcome, and this cabinet is going to bring that in on our behalf. It's going to insert that it wants... at the same time. Mr Pechtold speaks of exchange, but it is both. Why would we do one thing and not the other? We both want to do it. Don't you want that, Mr. Pechtold? Don't you want care to be provided in the region? Yes, that is what the Commission wants and, more importantly, that is what it wants. It is one of the priorities of the work programme presented yesterday. The priority is a permanent resettlement system, coupled with improved security. This is a priority for the European Commission. I would almost say that the only thing the Prime Minister can be disappointed about is that his lead role has now been taken over by Mr Juncker. But knowing his great appreciation for Mr Juncker, I think he won't mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u134	There are better times for jokes, I'd almost say. Mr Samsom spoke last week about the fat-Ike test. Well, this is him. The question put by Mr Pechtold is quite right and is being avoided. Over the last two days I have heard on television the Secretary of State and the chairman of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. They say that the Netherlands will only include people if there is a commitment to work in the long term. Now we hear from Brussels that this is not going to happen, that it is not going to happen. I would ask the Labour Party, Mr Samsom, whether the cabinet also agrees to the inclusion of refugees if the link with the long term does not come. That fat-ass question is ahead of us now. What is Mr Samsom's answer to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u135	I'm sorry, Mr. Klaver's premise doesn't add up. The European Commission clearly stated yesterday that this is one of its priorities. The first Vice-President of Europe, Mr Timmermans, said that what was announced by the Dutch Government yesterday was, of course, well-known in Europe. That makes sense, because the Commission would like to invest extra in the region and extend the resettlement programme. That is precisely the commitment of the Netherlands. I don't want the government to say right now that she doesn't care much about what's happening in Europe. We do care what happens in Europe. I will tell you, Mr Klaver, that the differences in this Chamber are minimal compared to the differences between European countries. My political family contains a number of people, Sobotka in the Czech Republic and Fico in Slovakia, with whom I will have to make an incredible number of calls over the next few days and on whom I will have to press hard to arrange it. Mr. Buma's family contains a gentleman, Mr. Orban...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u136	My political family.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u137	The political family. That's bad enough. Mr Buma's political family includes Mr Orbán, who is currently opposed to the fundamental idea which Mr Klaver wants to see for free. That's not just gonna happen. This cabinet has a duty to ensure that this plan succeeds. This means that it must go to Europe with a hard effort, otherwise it will not happen. I want both of them to happen. I want us to catch these people. Let us be clear about that, that is our commitment. And I want work to be done in the region on safe reception, on perspective and on more opportunities for resettlement. That's what I want. The cabinet wouldn't be worth a snipe if it said, "We don't care about one of them, we just keep walking." Then it won't happen. Mr Klaver would regret that, and so would I.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u138	I don't quite follow Mr Samsom. I really thought he had made a compromise, but he fully supports the idea that we should take people there in the region. I'm going back to the Azmani plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u139	You don't support that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u140	Mr Klaver has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u141	I'm going back to the Azmani plan and how you reacted. There you said: 'The numbers of refugees they are to receive...' 'They' are here Lebanon, Jordan and Turkey '... are already so much higher than we are, we run the risk of destabilising even more countries. That is not their interest, and that is not our interest. We need to get people in here, too. This means resettlement through the UNHCR, which also means that the asylum procedures we simply know in the Netherlands and in Europe must remain open to take over people." That is why the next question is so relevant, Mr Samsom. Even if the link between the long term and the short term is not established on Monday, I can imagine that this might take a little longer. The cabinet will come back to the Netherlands from Brussels on Monday with the announcement: we are going to take over these extra refugees here in the Netherlands as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u142	What Mr Klaver wants is all in the letter. More resettlement, that's right, more reception in the region, that's right, and so I want the cabinet to go to Brussels with that. I hope it succeeds. I have no reason to believe that it is not. If that is not possible in the end, because you seem to want to go there, Mr Klaver, the summit in Brussels will fail next Monday. That's a much bigger problem than the you-cake that you and I are both making right now. That is a much bigger problem, because then the summit fails and then there is no re-establishment. Maybe that will happen on a voluntary basis; then the Netherlands will have to reconsider. Then the commitment of the Labour Party will be that we simply take up the 7,000 and a number of others on a bold basis. That will be our commitment, but that will only be after it has failed. I'm not going to discuss that situation with you right now. I am going to discuss with you what we need to do to ensure that this summit succeeds, because it is now urgently needed. You and I can take account of each other here about what should happen elsewhere, but in the end, this cabinet - I share the responsibility for this - has the task of ensuring that this summit succeeds. This means that the whole effort, the whole letter, must indeed go to Europe, because I want to go to Europe, and I think you agree with us that reception is indeed taking place in the region. Who wouldn't want that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u143	Let me pass on to everything else that Mr Samsom said, but let me try to take the positive out of it. If I hear it correctly, he says: should the failure fail, should we not be able to find out right away that we are getting supporters of the plan put in the letter by the cabinet, with the long-term perspective, then the commitment of the PvdA is that refugees should simply be received, even if there is no agreement on that long-term. I've heard that, and I'm very happy about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u144	Yes, we said that before the summer, and successfully, by the way, so that was nothing new. Frankly, it would be a dramatic situation if we had to discuss after Monday what the Netherlands can do to solve the refugee problem on its own, because whatever we can contribute, it will never be enough on our own. Even 28 countries together cannot give a good answer, and on our own that will never be enough. We'll calm our consciences, we'll do what we have to do, but it won't be enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u145	This is pertinent bullshit. I'm not talking about what the Netherlands should do alone. What matters is the link that is clearly laid down in the letter, in the annotated agenda that we received late last night, between the long-term perspective of this cabinet and Mr Samsom and the short-term perspective.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u146	You raised this point earlier in your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u147	I have already said that this link by the cabinet is a bit easy, I take it that the cabinet is not a bad one, because it is already inside. The Commission announced yesterday that it will focus on reception in the region, on an enhanced resettlement programme. That announcement has already been made. Now, let's make it work.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u148	Mr Samsom indicated that he wanted the summit to succeed on Monday. I think that is what most groups in this Chamber want. But the question is, of course, what is the commitment of the Netherlands there and what will be the contribution of the Netherlands to the success of that summit. Well, then I'm gonna need a reading guide to the cabinet letter. I know that Mr Samsom has been involved in this too, so maybe he can give it to me. How should we read the sentence on the long-term vision of registration outside Europe? It says: "The combined solution described above cannot be achieved in the short term"............................................................................................................................................................................................ European commitment to this solution is therefore a prerequisite for a successful intermediate phase." How am I supposed to read this sentence? Does this condition mean that it is a thought of the cabinet, that this is the ideal for the future for which it is necessary and that it would be good if Europe were to cooperate in this? Or is it a condition to agree to redistribution? That's what we need to be really sharp with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u149	The way it says it here, it's a fact. If you do nothing in the region, resettlement is not successful. That's what it says here, and it is. This does not mean that we do not end up with a one-sided approach, because that would unfortunately have to be the new debate on redistribution in Europe. I hope we're not having that discussion, but if we have to have her, we'll do it after Monday. This is a situation in which the summit has failed. Let us bear in mind the reality of Europe for a moment. The programmes in the region are not controversial. Everyone wants to do that. The redistribution in Europe is controversial. Even people from our political families are reluctant to do so. People from Mr Slob's political family also do that, if I can count on Cameron to do so. They are very opposed to this. That is our task at the moment: to ensure that it succeeds. The link with reception in the region has been made quickly, because it happens.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u150	Do I understand Mr Samsom correctly that it is a condition that there is a commitment from Europe for the long term? This does not mean that it will be possible to decide next Monday simply to join the redistribution process, which is now urgent and will have to take place now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u151	I say that this condition will not stand in the way, because that condition is met. The problem is that there is a chance that we cannot decide to redistribute the people who are already in Greece, Italy and Hungary, because there are major objections. I would like us here to strengthen the cabinet with each other in order to come up with this solution. I have already said that I will try to do my part with regard to my political family. I hope that Mr Buma wants to focus that on his political family and Mr Slob on his. That's where the opponents are right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u152	Mr Buma, you are now going to interrupt for the second time. I'm fine with that, but I'd like to ask you the following in this round. Last time, I gave you a big chance. I ask you not to give a very comprehensive opinion now, but to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u153	As long as the answer to the question comes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u154	I would therefore like to ask Mr Samsom, who is very much repeating himself to try...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u155	Yes, because the more substantive and precise the question put by colleagues, the more general and pathetic Mr Samsom's answer. We're just not gonna get anywhere with that. It is now clear that there is simply no letter. It seems that Mr Samsom already knows a bit where the summit is headed. I have to say, we can all estimate that. There is, of course, something about 'we need to do more in the region'. I hear Mr Samsom say yes. I didn't know that yet, but that's good to know. Then the Prime Minister comes back with "Toppie! The first step towards my goal." For Mr Samsom, the goal is to provide more shelter in the region. I think the whole Chamber supports that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u156	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u157	The big lie of this letter is what's behind it and what the Prime Minister, the Secretary of State and the VVD say...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u158	Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u159	...that all borders close. I shall therefore return to the question which Mr Samsom referred back to me. That's why I'm still here. The basic question is whether, in order to achieve this goal, you are prepared to take the necessary measures. You can write in a letter that you want to go to full employment, then we all agree but then do nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u160	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u161	The question I have is as follows. The safe country criterion has so far been interpreted internationally as valid for countries which have signed the Refugee Convention. "Key" is if the PvdA lets it go.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u162	Is that your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u163	If you let it go, it can happen at some pace. If you don't let it go, then those millions really won't get into the procedure in Turkey, then they won't get a job there and they won't get a house.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u164	This is not a simple question, but I understand it better. At first, I would be tempted to say no to that. I wouldn't want to compromise the Refugee Convention, so to speak. Fortunately, so does the Cabinet. We don't want to do that. But I am afraid Mr Buma will have to come back. I'll go along with his reasoning. Suppose it's a blocking condition for a solution in the region. Says it's really the only and last blocking condition for care in the region. Then you could imagine that you are all sitting around the table and saying: that Refugee Convention needs to be slightly adapted in that respect. It is a somewhat more comprehensive answer, but it seems to me to be an answer in which we can find each other. I do not think that the CDA, as a party to international law, is easily inclined to say: throw that treaty aside. But if it is the only and last condition, and if it does not affect international fundamental human rights issues, then you could consider finding each other on that point and amending the Convention to that effect. Couldn't it be?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u165	I find this very interesting. You have spins and you have major international international turns of parties with a long tradition. The latter happens here. The PvdA has said the longest: the Refugee Convention is the basis on which we address each other. The CDA and others have said much before that we must adapt it, because it is out of time. Now the Labour Party is making that big turn. I hope the grassroots will see that turn. It's big, it's major, it's a big victory for those who want to take another step.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u166	If that's how you want to explain constructivity, you can.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u167	This is at the heart of the question. This link is made by the coalition partner. That is why I am asking an explanatory question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u168	With a brief explanation, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u169	Mr Samsom said that the law was actually already being implemented when it comes to the possibility of returning to safe third countries. That's right, but what's in the letter? The Aliens Act states that it is possible to return to safe third countries. The letter says we'll do it. So that's a huge difference from the Alien Law. That is of course also the intention of the VVD. My question is in line with what Mr Buma said. Will the Labour Party, for the longer term, not agree to return refugees who are still arriving here in Europe, to countries such as Lebanon or Turkey?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u170	Mr Roemer outlines a difference that is not there. The letter also states that individual circumstances and the specific background of individuals, such as LBTs, are taken into account. That's the stuffing. So it's not always gonna happen. This is exactly the same as the current Foreigner's Act, which you voted for. If people come forward who have travelled through a safe third country, they can be returned. This is not going to happen when individual circumstances give rise to this. We saw an example of this not so long ago. We have many examples every week. The people who follow the right of asylum can see that. The law says exactly the same thing as it says in the letter. The major difference is that there is now an ambition to bring countries that have not yet come close to them, even across borders, so that we can create a better situation in the world, namely more countries that meet the criterion of safe third countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u171	It's kind of tight. The starting point in the law is whether or not it is possible. The practice was that it just never happened. The letter says: "Shall." Of course individual circumstances will prevent a few, but this is a clear trend break. Does the Labour Party agree for the longer term that people who come here from Europe should be sent back to Lebanon, for example, because this can be seen as a safe third country?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u172	Mr Roemer says that it has not happened so far, but it happens daily with countries inside and even outside Europe, for example Switzerland and Norway. If people report here through Norway, they will be returned, unless individual circumstances lead to a different decision. This is always the case, including in the current legislation. There is no amendment proposed by this cabinet. The announcement concerns only the ambition to bring other countries into that situation. If you compare Norway and Turkey, you will find that there is still a gap to fill. Turkey does not need to become the richest country in the world in order to meet these conditions. But things will still have to be done to get you into that situation. We have the ambition to make that happen. I hope other countries share that ambition with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u173	My question was whether, for the longer term, the Labour Party would agree that people who report in the Netherlands or elsewhere in Europe should be sent back to Lebanon, for example, because that would be a safe third country?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u174	In fact, my group and the SP Group agreed to this last year when we voted on the amendments to the Alien Law. This was precisely the point. So the SP Group has already agreed to it, as has my group. It only does not apply to Lebanon, because that is not a safe third country. However, Mr Roemer suggests in his question that this is true.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u175	So Mr Samsom wants a fence around Europe after all?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u176	We have agreed to the same thing as the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u177	It doesn't get any easier, but let's just stay in technology for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u178	I'm asking you to be brief.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u179	We have the principle of accommodating the refugee who comes to Europe in the first country. Does that principle remain, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u180	I hope that Mr Pechtold will agree with that, but I am happy to say that the commitment is that this is not the end of it. If we leave it to Greece, Italy and Hungary, they won't be able to handle it. We must show solidarity and ultimately give this refugee a place in a second country. The breach of the Dublin agreement begins there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u181	Then why does the PvdA write on its website that this principle should be removed from the Dublin Convention?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u182	That's exactly what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u183	No, that's...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u184	No, Mr. Pechtold.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u185	I was perhaps trying to explain a little inconveniently that it is going to go away because we are violating what was agreed in Dublin on that point. In fact, someone who reports to Italy will not necessarily obtain shelter and asylum in Italy. He should be able to obtain shelter and asylum in the Netherlands, because we are going to agree on a redistribution. Less than half an hour ago, Mr Pechtold passionately advocated such a redistribution. We agree on this point; it is difficult enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u186	We agree. In fact, I think it's important. However, the VVD has a different opinion. She says: the external borders are closed and those who come from another country in the Netherlands are sent back and then we are going to get them out of those camps. I come now to the point of getting from the countries in the region. Mr Samsom says he looks forward to that with confidence. Yesterday in the state of the Union, Mr Juncker said: we are not pushing back boats. Mrs Mogherini, who faced the Dutch plan, literally said: "Every attempt to deal with this outside our borders is not going to work. I am not suggesting that we do this in Lebanon, Jordan or Turkey. The numbers of refugees they have to host are already so much higher than with us." What's the success rate if whoever's talking about it says, "I don't think about it." Mrs Mogherini looked at it like she had a dirty taste in her mouth.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u187	She answered that to a journalist's question. He asked: are you going to let those people return without any changes now, for example without more resettlement? Are you going to push those boats back? No, of course it's not. No one's talking about pushing back boats. We are talking about a much greater resettlement effort. Resettlement means people come from here instead of the other way around. After Mrs Mogherini had spoken, Mr Timmermans took the floor. He said that more resettlement is an essential part if we want this whole plan to succeed. It is an essential part of Europe's response. In this respect, the Dutch Government's plans are fully in line with those of the Commission. What Mr Timmermans said was about resettlement. That seems pretty crucial to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u188	It's great if we can resettle people. It's fantastic if countries in the region can handle anything. It is fantastic if we in the Netherlands manage to cope with this through a fair distribution. Only the link that the VVD put in with the PvdA is that one does not happen if the other is not realized. That's an illusion. That is why I ask once again: does the link whereby people are included only through the distribution system when the other is in place, even if everyone says that it is an illusion and that it is not going to happen? Will that link remain, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u189	I want both. I'm fixing it, because I want both of them to happen. I just heard you say that's what you want, because you want resettlement. You want more reception in the region, and you and I also want the people who are already in Europe to be more justly distributed across the European continent. That's what we all want. In that sense, I have indeed linked it. Unlike you, I read in the European Commission's plans that it is one of the priorities that safe reception and increased resettlement programmes are finally being implemented. That's not just a sentence. This is one of the main priorities of the European Commission's work programme in the coming years. I welcome everyone's pessimism and cynicism, but there is already enough cynicism in this issue. Here I can also draw hope and extra energy to encourage the cabinet to make this really successful.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u190	Cynic is the attitude of the cabinet that sends us out with this fata morgana. In concrete terms, does Mr Samsom believe that it is possible in the near future for a refugee who does manage to reach Europe by boat to be sent back under the guise of 'we will get you in Lebanon'? Are all the people arriving with boats, if it's Mr Samsom's fault, stopped? Yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u191	They won't be stopped anyway. So the answer is no. I see Mr Pechtold protesting, but he wanted to go into the technique himself, because he asked a very specific question. Then he gets a specific answer. No, of course they won't be stopped. Last year your group simply voted in favour of the third country principle, and according to that principle people are being received here in the Netherlands. Then we assess where they came from and what route they traveled through. If there is a safe third country on that route, and if there are a number of conditions still to be met, I will not tire the President of the Council anymore. This asylum seeker will be referred back to that third country. That's how it happens now, and that's how it's gonna happen. That doesn't change anything. That has nothing to do with pushing back, stopping or otherwise getting started.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u192	How many more people need to be taken care of in the region?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u193	On the contrary, it needs to be reduced, and that is why we need to make a much greater effort in resettlement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u194	Just a short while ago, you had to see the long-term perspective, because we all want people in the region to be taken care of.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u195	Not anymore, but better.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u196	No more people in the region?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u197	Oh, my God, let's not catch any more people in the region. It's way too crowded out there right now. Lebanon currently has a quarter of the population as refugees. You have to do something about that, don't you? Let's get these people back to Europe. That is one of the efforts of this cabinet that wants to live up to it and not just let go. I hope you don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u198	I'm thrilled about this, because, of course, we need to resettle people. That's gonna get us close to my point. We need to resettle people. We need to resettle people in Europe, we need to ensure that reception is better organised there, and we need to ensure that we include more people through the UNHCR. The cabinet is setting another link. The cabinet has the ambition, and you also say it, that refugees are coming to Europe as little as possible and that everyone in the region is being received. That's what your coalition partner says. That's what Mogherini responded to yesterday. That is what Mogherini said: we are doing everything we can, but, given the precarious situation surrounding the main conflict areas, it is not realistic to use it. That was about more shelter in the region. That is what the cabinet's plan is looking at, and that is what I fortunately do not hear Mr Samsom say. He says we have to go for it...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u199	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u200	Mr President, perhaps you could just let us talk about this important subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u201	That's what I'm here for.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u202	Then we agree. Mr Samsom says that we need to ensure that the pressure from the region is brought to bear by bringing more people here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u203	That is exactly what the letter says, where Mr Pechtold uttered the unpleasant word 'overpressure valve'. I couldn't think of a better word myself, but that's exactly what we're looking for. And yes, I have the ambition that fewer refugees come to Europe, because I have the ambition to create a region so safe that people do not feel the despair of taking a boat to Europe. That is ultimately the motivation of people, the despair. If you and I both have the ambition to take that desperation away, we can agree. But that does require a hard bet on all parts of this plan. I really don't understand why there are parties saying, "Oh, man, all those parts are pretty important," but you know what, we're forgetting that one. So you would forget that you have to be very hard on more resettlement and that you have to strive hard for better reception with more perspective in the region. If you take that into account, we are not in agreement, because I am not being laconical about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u204	Bet hard on resettlement? Wonderful, we agree on that. How much? I don't see anything about that in the letter. If this is such an important part, why don't I know what the government's commitment to this issue is? Then why don't I know what the PvdA's bet is?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u205	Enough to relieve the region. Hence again that very uncomfortable word...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u206	And how much is that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u207	Do you know how many there are? Just as much as it takes now to make sure that there are in that region... if you say there are ten, I think you underestimate it rather. If you say there's 10 million, I think you're overestimating it. Do you know exactly what the answer is? Would you like to choose a bet on an asylum number?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u208	Is your answer "as much as necessary"?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u209	Yes, of course. Just as much as it takes to create a safe region where there is no overpressure, to use that difficult word again, as is the case in Lebanon, for example. If a quarter of the population is now refugees and long since no longer living in camps, Lebanon has long ceased to allow camps, but in garages or self-organised construction sites, we must be able to agree that we are bringing some of those people here to offer them a better future and to relieve Lebanon.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u210	One more question. Mr Samsom knows the letter very well, but I have had trouble reading it. I believe that this applies to more colleagues, because we have a lot of questions about it. Is "as much as possible" also the use of this cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u211	As much as it takes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u212	Excuse me, as much as you need. Is that also the commitment of this cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u213	Yeah, and it found a complicated word for that: pressure relief valve. I must honestly say that if you put it that way, that word is indeed not entirely appropriate and the cabinet must look for a better word, but we know what we mean.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u214	It really gives me some goosebumps when I hear Mr Samsom say: we need to relieve Lebanon. You'd better say that for your own voter! You'd better say that for the Dutchman! As a result of the policy of the Labour Party, the elderly are being chased out of the nursing home, the WW is being reduced and the people in this country are being caught on all sides. And what does the representative of the Labour Party say here in this house? "We must relieve Lebanon." Relax the Dutchman only once! He voted for you! If you are wondering why you are only on nine seats and are quickly on your way to zero, that is because you are more concerned about the people of Lebanon than the people of the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u215	I am concerned about the ideals that still have to be respected in this world; that is true. If you have any advice on getting rid of those nine seats, I'd be happy to hear them. We can use all the advice on that point. Mr. Chairman. I'm going to finish, because in the interruptions I've had a lot of time to quote. The proposal to invest more in the region, which has just been mentioned several times, is therefore not new, but is now being made more forcefully by the cabinet. It is not just about safety and care, I say to Mr Klaver and others, but also about providing more perspective during that reception. There is so much lack of education and work! That's why people end up taking that boat to Europe. So it's about time. What is even more important is the proposal to structurally increase the possibilities for resettlement in Europe from the region. This can be an important element in tackling human trafficking. The cabinet outlines a perspective, that of creating a safe third country. As the cabinet rightly points out, this will not be easy. I think a number of colleagues agreed with that. This requires far-reaching agreements, there is a great deal of money involved, and it demands the full commitment of our foreign policy. But here too, a joint European agreement can make a difference. I also note with satisfaction that the European Commission has already identified this commitment as a priority for the work programme for the coming year. My group supports the government's efforts and hopes that we will be able to work on all its aspects as soon as possible, so that we can do justice to the values of Europe, but more importantly, so that we can do everything possible to ensure that those who flee war and persecution are able to escape safely.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u216	Mr. Chairman. Images often say more than a thousand words. Recently, we have often seen, too often shocking images of migrants trying to come to Europe, children and adults who drown without a chance in the Mediterranean Sea or suffocate without a chance in a truck. It's images you don't let go of, but those images aren't new. They've been here for years. That is why the VVD presented a plan last March to prevent this degrading misery, a plan that tackles the problems at the source. At the heart of this plan is that we receive real refugees in our own region. There in the region we offer a safe place, the consequence of which is that asylum procedures are no longer needed for these people in Europe. With this, we offer real refugees security and contain the increasing migratory flow towards Europe and towards the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u217	Of course, we remember that plan, because it was presented in March. Should we now read the letter from the cabinet in such a way that the spirit, the essence of the Azmani plan for the longer term, is also expressed in the letter and that this is the starting point for the cabinet to take to Brussels and get as much out of it as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u218	I'm describing the VVD's plan here. I'll be right back to the cabinet letter. It is clear that there are similarities.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u219	Sure, but the question wasn't whether there were any similarities in it. The question was whether the core of the VVD's plan is also at the heart of the long-term vision as expressed in the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u220	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u221	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u222	In the interrupting debate with Mr Samsom, fortunately, he said at the end: let's not accept any more people in the region, let's do everything we can for resettlement. How does Mr Zijlstra view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u223	I was just talking about the VVD plan last March. In view of the reactions, many had not gone further in reading than the first paragraph. That plan says resettlement. We mentioned that element at the time, and it is also in the cabinet response.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u224	Is the VVD ensuring that there are no more people in the region, but that we ensure that those people come here and that we use the pressure relief valve, as it was called? Do I understand correctly that this is the joint commitment of the PvdA and the VVD that the cabinet must carry out?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u225	More shelter in the region. In my opinion, the word "more" has only one meaning: more.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u226	If I understand correctly, Mr Zijlstra wants to accommodate more people in the region, so no more people here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u227	The essence of the cabinet proposal and of our proposal is that you take people as close to their own home and fireplace as possible. During the First World War, the Netherlands received a million Belgians with all the problems associated with it. That was our duty. The same applies to people from other regions of the world. People prefer to be caught near their home and their fireplace. As a war, when the misery is over, they can go back to their home and their fireplace. Then you need to catch more in the region. Mr Klaver just had a little debate with Mr Samsom on the pressure relief valve. You will have to take into account that countries have to cooperate; that is why it was already in our plan. You will have to make it clear to them that we will always participate in the framework of solidarity in the world, but on the basis of invitation, on the basis of a choice we make here or, if so, how many people we invite.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u228	Quite specifically, almost 98% of refugees are already being received in the region. How much more do you want? Fortunately, Mr Samsom was very clear about that. He said, no, we shouldn't have any more people there, we should invite more people here to resettle here. When I hear you, you say it's going to be more than 98%. What is the government's commitment? Should there be more or fewer people in the region?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u229	When I say "more reception in the region," it must be clear. By the way, take care of that 98%. We said 97%. From the NRC Fact-check came by the way that it seems to be 95%, but let's leave that in the middle.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u230	Mr Zijlstra is indeed very clear. But now it's getting confusing. We have a letter from the cabinet on which Mr Zijlstra is very clear. We have a letter, supported by two coalition parties. We have just been able to listen to Mr Samsom for a very long time. Then no one can draw a different conclusion than: Mr Zijlstra's story is at odds with Mr Samsom's? Mr Zijlstra says that more needs to be done, while Mr Samsom says that less needs to be done. In fact, according to Mr Samsom, nothing changes in the long term when it comes to returning to third countries, while Mr Zijlstra sees a big difference. Oh, come on, this is a little bit out of line, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u231	To be honest, I think that's not so bad. I heard Mr Samsom say very clearly that it is necessary to look at whether a country is participating in the Refugee Convention. The opening was clear: we want to solve a problem. To be honest, I think that is a bit the trend of this debate so far: what are we talking about here? We all have in mind the terrible images that have been coming along in recent times. We are having a discussion in The Hague about what can or cannot be done, while the commitment of the PvdA and the VVD groups is that we want to tackle the problem. We want to tackle the smugglers who put the people in the boats. We want to prevent people from getting on a boat and drowning in the Mediterranean. That is the commitment of both sides. That means you have to take far-reaching steps. There are two parties that have that willingness. I would like to say to all those other parties who may have some hesitation about this, that is to say, a little bit from the debate: step over it, look at the real problem. We all know that if we want to prevent people from getting into those boats, if we want to avoid getting, like last week, photographs that have made a huge impression on all of us, what should be done about the way in which we have regulated our asylum procedures. Then you have to take the people to the region and take them there safely. This will eliminate the right of asylum for those people.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u232	I understand that Mr Zijlstra is, of course, trying to keep a story about which, apart from one party, everyone agrees: we have to pay particular attention to each other and we have to solve the problem. But the Netherlands is not crazy, so don't fool the Netherlands. We have here a letter from the cabinet and two parties that are at odds with each other. One says that the VVD's plan is at the heart of the letter and the other says: no way, far from that, because that is what we consider to be antisocial. One says that we can send people back in the long term and the other says: no, there can be more coming to the Netherlands, because a country like Lebanon is already overcrowded. Try to fool yourself, but not all of the Netherlands. What message will the government have to send to Europe? No one can tie a rope to this anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u233	The letter is pretty clear. Mr Roemer forgets the effects that will occur. That's one of the underlying cases. At a time when people have a safe place in the region and are therefore no longer eligible for asylum in Europe, and if they do come back, you are destroying the entire business model of the smugglers. 'Cause then why would you get on that boat? That will also have an effect. The real refugees we offer protection in the region. But I hope that no one here will deny that there are also a lot of people who report as refugees and get on a boat, but come here for economic reasons. That's just a fact. That kind of people will not be using that kind of reception conditions anymore. Maybe that'll help you narrow down the flow of refugees. And then the effect of Mr Samsom corresponds to that of VVD. That's exactly the line of the cabinet letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u234	So far, the VVD has explained its own plan: all borders are closed to refugees, I must say: asylum seekers in Europe. Is that still the explanation of the VVD of its own plan?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u235	An image of "borders closed" has been created. The VVD has always said: you must create safe ports in the region. If there are, the right of asylum will lapse for people from that region. You may refer to that as 'close borders', but they are not completely closed. If someone comes from a region where we don't have a safe haven, that person can still go to Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u236	This is another change of unprecedented magnitude. The word "turn" is in the back of my head. It was the VVD itself that was spreading all over this house: now the borders are finally closing. That verdict came only from the VVD. My great anger is in the fact that this really is a lie, because they are not closing. Mr Zijlstra now recognizes this. It would be very helpful if the VVD finally realised that we all want to have shelter in the region in this house, perhaps with one or two groups, and to go to that goal in a good way, but that we must be honest towards the Dutch people and recognise that the borders simply do not close. Say that for once!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u237	I think this is a slightly confusing interruption. I think I'm pretty clear. As soon as there is a safe haven for people in the region, the right of asylum lapses. Then they won't get in here, and if they do, we'll make sure they go back to a safe haven in the region in a proper way in a sturdy boat or on a plane. That is clearly described in the cabinet's letter, and that is what is happening. I think that is exactly what the VVD indicated in March. I see the agreements in the letter to the cabinet, and the VVD Group is therefore satisfied with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u238	Then I keep saying that, in order to bring the Dutch citizen back into what we can really do as a politician, the way in which the VVD says so must change. Then the VVD must acknowledge that Mr Zijlstra is now doing so because the borders are not closed. In fact, we can say that all wars must leave the world, because then there will be no more refugees. You'll tell the public something that doesn't make sense. Once again, it will be better if Mr Zijlstra is doing so now, he says: sorry, we cannot close the borders at all, but we want to accept them in safe countries. That's what Monday is about. Mr Samsom has already given an insight into Monday's decision-making. If the decision-making is Monday in the sense of "we are going to work for more reception in the region," is the VVD agreed? After all, the VVD can say secretly: yes, because we want to close all borders in the end. Is that enough to agree to the first part, namely resettlement? Or should there be more?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u239	I shall come back to the first point. The moment you decide that people coming from a region where there is a safe haven no longer have a right of asylum, the border for those people is closed. If they come here, we'll bring them back. I think that's consistent with what the VVD said. The second point concerns the commitment for next Monday. I think the cabinet is very clear about that. I'd like to hear confirmation from the cabinet. I think Mr Samsom was clear about that too. The cabinet letter contains two elements. First of all... How are we going to prevent people from getting in a boat or in a truck and dying there without a chance? Second. What do we do in the meantime? The cabinet has said: both things must be done; so we in Europe agree to redistribution for the short term, for the intermediate phase, but in the meantime we are also going to make sure that these terrible images disappear by doing something about the smugglers and the people who are getting into a boat. The clutch is here. In my view, the cabinet is literally saying that it is a condition that Europe decides to do so for the long term. And if Europe decides to do so, we will also decide to participate in short-term redistribution. Those two things are linked. That link seems more than justified to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u240	Certainly, because here the balloon was finally punctured by Mr Zijlstra himself. So there is nothing left of it: all borders must be closed and only then will we agree. That's the image the VVD was so thrilled with. No, if Europe is prepared to take steps towards greater reception in the region so that that perspective remains, the VVD agreement is in place. Well, we all share that here. In fact, it is a very separate debate, because the PvdA has now agreed to amend the Refugee Convention after this debate. Mr Zijlstra will no longer have to close the borders after this debate. Never before have we had so much profit in such a short time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u241	I think you should be a lawyer in order to follow this reasoning, but let me respond to it anyway. If Europe wants to do something about these horrible images that we have seen, then we must also ensure that people stop getting on a boat. There are two reasons why people run. The first is safety. That's the most basic one. People who flee because of security, we must always provide a protected, safe place. We have also signed refugee treaties for this. We'll never, ever run away from that. In any case, there is no refugee treaty that says that this must be a safe place in Europe, but we must take care of it. Europe must assume that responsibility, and so must we. If there is, there is no right of asylum in Europe anymore. That is what Europe must decide. That is not from today to tomorrow; let that be clear. In the short term, the VVD will also agree to redistribution. I don't think there's a word of Spanish, Russian or any other language. It is extremely clear and extremely consistent.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u242	But the story doesn't work if you see Samsom and Zijlstra next to each other in half an hour. It just can't be. Mr Samsom says that people in Lebanon and Jordan are in cellar boxes and garages; we must now go as far as we can. That's what he says. And Mr Zijlstra says: as long as we still have Jordan and Lebanon, you can go that way, and even more so, your right to asylum in Europe will expire. What is it? Are these countries too full at the moment, or are people still able to reach it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u243	Take a country like Jordan. There are at least 120,000 places available in the refugee camps that are already there. There is also a sixth camp built on top of the five existing. So I think that's a hell of a discussion. One of the key points of the cabinet letter is: make sure you provide good, safe shelter in the region. I think that's a good element. And it's more than what's happening now, with education for children and with good health care. Mr Samsom said it, too. That's the kind of perspective you have to offer people. In that situation, there is no need for those people to come here anymore. The wretched picture of last week's boy was that this little boy and his family were in a shelter camp in Turkey. Can't you blame them for preferring to go to the Netherlands or Germany? That's understandable. We'd probably do the same ourselves. And why did they go? Because there is the possibility of an asylum procedure in Europe. That's the reason, and you have to take it away.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u244	This is from a drawing table and from a creative idea... so that means we send another 120,000 to Jordan first. That is what Mr Zijlstra himself says. There's still room. I'm gonna try one more time, a little sharper. Is, in Mr Zijlstra's view, any refugee who comes directly from Jordan or Lebanon this way, one who is pushed back and who is said: no, you came yourself so you go back, 100%, all of them? Yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u245	Unfortunately, it's just a little more complex. There are refugees from regions where there is safe shelter. There's got to be. If there is no safe reception in the region, for example, if there is a conflict in Asia, then they come and are simply entitled to an asylum procedure here in Europe. But if there are safe ports, you don't have that right, unless you're not safe there. That is also the core of what has been put down. But then you're invited. In line with the interrupting debate you had with Mr Van der Staaij, I shall mention just one thing. Christian refugees or gays may be in a camp where it is not safe for them. Then we will bring them to Europe, because the security conditions will not be met.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u246	Are Lebanon and Jordan now safe in the eyes of Mr Zijlstra? So if he says yes, no one from these countries can go this way. If he says no, without the clause, we are going to include at least 7,200 people, but also the "overpressure valve" as the cabinet writes; use a terrible word "to" and therefore actively invite people. Are these countries safe? I am referring specifically to Jordan and Lebanon. Are they safe, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u247	I believe that these countries are safe for refugees, but they do not yet meet the criteria we have set. The reception in these countries does not in all cases end; let me put it euphemistically. That is why Europe must also decide to do better and create genuine safe ports with good facilities there. And then the right of asylum lapses. We have not arranged that from today to tomorrow. I'm not running away from that. It is not true that when Europe says 'we are going to do this' on Monday, it is actually settled on Tuesday; certainly not. That is why, for the time being, we agree with redistribution, but only if Europe decides to move in this direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u248	Every time you think the reasoning is right, there comes a disclaimer that makes you think: the whole reasoning falls down again. Either you send the cabinet out on Monday with a few billion dollars in its pocket to create those safe ports or you acknowledge... that's what Mr Zijlstra says now. I'm trying to bring him in on the basis of his own words. He says it's unsafe now, but we're gonna make it safe. This means that in the meantime, as long as it is not safe, people are welcome here and the right of asylum does not lapse. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u249	If there is no safe haven in the region, you can come here. That's literally in the cabinet letter. And what's the bet? We are going to create safe ports there. Sometimes they already exist, but we will have to get Europe to abandon the right of asylum. That is what we must do first. So there's no inconsistency at all. The nice thing about this story is that it's as consistent as it can be. I say to Mr Pechtold and others that this is also the only thing that really does something about the real problem. The main problem is that people go to a smuggler and pay a lot of money to get into a wreck boat on the Mediterranean Sea and then wait and see if they can make it across alive. If we want to do something about it, redistribution will not help at all. It doesn't start until the people are on the beach, but then you're too late. Thousands have already drowned or died during their journey through the desert. We want to combat this problem. If you really want to do something about that, I will tell all those parties who are very easily walking away from a solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u250	It is a very consistent VVD story, but I think the story of the cabinet and the coalition is becoming increasingly inconsistent. I would just like to clarify the conditions under which the VVD will agree to redistribution. If I have heard Mr Zijlstra correctly, he says that the VVD can only agree to the redistribution section if it is agreed in Europe that the right to asylum in Europe will expire as soon as there are safe ports, i.e. safe areas in the region. Did I get that correctly?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u251	The VVD supports the cabinet and that is very clear in its letter. It says that Europe must decide to do so. That wasn't realized right away. So until Europe decides to do so, we agree to redistribute in the meantime. Europe must decide to really do something about the problem, otherwise it will be working on the fight against symptoms.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u252	It's in the word "this." I understand this isn't settled from today to tomorrow. Mr Zijlstra says quite clearly here, and I would like to confirm this, otherwise I simply did not understand the VVD position...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u253	Well, that seems very hard to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u254	In my view, you say that you can only agree to redistribution if it is also being worked on in Europe and if it is decided within an x-number of years that the right of asylum will expire when people in the region can be safely received. So it will lapse, and that is something other than what is currently being practiced. 'Cause if there's a safe place, you're gonna get into the procedure, but you're just gonna be sent back. Then the application is not recognised. That is therefore a change in relation to the current situation. Did I get that correctly?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u255	It is in the cabinet's letter and we support the cabinet in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u256	I ask this because I thought I read this too, but when I listened to my colleague from the Labour Party, I got a slightly different explanation on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u257	I think Mr. Samsom was...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u258	I got the impression that the asylum is not going to expire. I think it was explained that the existing situation is so. That is true, I believe, but Mr Zijlstra is proposing something far more radical, namely that the right to asylum should lapse.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u259	If there's a safe haven. That's what the letter says. We very much support the cabinet in what is written in it. That is consistent and it is also the only real solution. I don't know how many times I have to say it, but I think it's pretty clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u260	Let us stick to the facts. The facts are that the VVD Group, and the VVD Prime Minister earlier, are fooling the electorate again. For what is happening: the cabinet plan supported by Mr Zijlstra is a paper reality. If this were to become a reality, it would take years. In the meantime, the people in the Netherlands have to deal with this today and tomorrow, the VVD is signing that thousands of people are allowed to come to the Netherlands. In the meantime, people can still at least come to the Netherlands to apply for asylum. Afterwards they can just come to the Netherlands, apply, go into illegality and get a bath and bread with the support of the VVD bed and perhaps even a general pardon. What matters is what Mr Zijlstra gives people tomorrow. He gives people a vague plan and it may take years before it is implemented, if it is implemented at all. Tomorrow they will receive thousands of additional asylum seekers as a gift from the VVD. Mr Zijlstra has to say that honestly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u261	What Mr Wilders is saying now is amazing. When Mr Azmani of the VVD presented his plan in March, Mr Wilders' reaction was: great plan, do it right away. The reactions in the Chamber were opportunistic, shameless, unacceptable. We've seen everything come along. Now we are five months away and the government policy has substantial parts of that plan in it. Once again, a plan of which Mr Wilders said: very good plan, do it. It is true that this perspective cannot be realised from today to tomorrow, but if we see how much the need is and how quickly we have reached a majority in this Chamber of one party, then I am confident that Europe's economic power will ensure that it succeeds and that it does so in the foreseeable future. That will not happen within a few months, but it will not take years, because we will be confronted with these horrible images every time and we want to do something about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u262	The PVV said then and now says it's not a good plan. The plan for shelter in the region would be good if you closed the borders of the Netherlands. That is what we said then, and that is what we are saying now. I do not know whether Mr Zijlstra has ever looked at the polls, and I do not know whether he thinks that Schengen should be abandoned and that border controls should be put back in place. It's the only way to stop people. Mr Zijlstra now comes up with a vague plan, the question is whether it works and whether there is support for it, but he says in the meantime: come to the Netherlands, ten thousand people. Probably gonna be 10,000 more people in a few months. That's fooling people. The signature of the VVD in recent years? Promise things and do the opposite. Promise the borders will close, but they won't close. What do people get? Thousands of asylum seekers. Be honest! You've been paged by the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u263	Once again, it seems that Mr Wilders' memory is abandoning him, because he said personally about this plan: fine plan, we would like to carry it out. That's what we're gonna do now, and I'd say, "Help me out." We agree on redistributing. Redistributing is not a solution, but the current situation is no longer working either. Dublin is no longer working at the moment, because if an asylum seeker signs up at Kos or in Italy, he should be registered there and go into procedure there. In that reasoning, and I follow Mr Wilders, the number of asylum seekers coming here should be much lower. Those countries are letting them through. You can see that, given the footage, on the one hand. And so I think it doesn't even have to be so bad for the Netherlands. We have to look closely at the distribution criteria, but now we are in a situation where there are all kinds of people who should actually have applied for asylum in other countries. From the same countries we get another couple of extras. I think the cabinet is very realistic about this in its proposal. But it must be for the short term, because it does not solve the problem that is actually at stake. It does not solve the problem of people dying in the Mediterranean or in trucks. That should be the motivation of all of us, of all parties, and not with all vague stories why you couldn't do something because of all kinds of rules or procedures. If you're genuinely shocked by that kind of footage, you're going to do something about it and you're not going to have some kind of Hague debate with: it can't be for this reason or it's so vague there and there. Then you're gonna do something about it!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u264	I can say that I am a little more positive about the plans now before us than many other colleagues. I admit that I often suffer from a somewhat positive approach to plans. However, I would like to touch on the point that is currently being raised, namely the question of how feasible and realistic it is. We too say that it is fine to do something today, but that system will have to change tomorrow. It's just that we've actually been saying that for a long time. Is it not essential that, apart from within Europe, it has also been mentioned before; the United Kingdom and Italy have already come up with proposals, especially the countries in the areas where people will soon be going, and even more so, should also agree? How does Mr Zijlstra see the perspective for this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u265	That is a very fair question from Mr Van der Staaij. This requires that we make agreements with the countries where safe ports come. We cannot say'stamp on it, we declare you safe' when it is not. We want to create that. Then we, as Europe, will have to make agreements with those countries. That is why Europe's decision is so important. If Europe decides to do so, the world's largest economic power will talk to countries that still have something to gain economically. Then you can take steps like this. That wasn't realized from today to tomorrow. That is what we have always said, and that is what I am saying now. But I believe that all those countries in Europe, all of which see the unsustainability of the current situation, will want to take this step. Then I think that the countries where this will take place will cooperate enough to achieve it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u266	Looking back on the past few years, I can see that agreements with countries on readmission agreements have been extremely lengthy and difficult. That was actually even simpler than what is now in store. What can Europe really offer these countries to pull them over?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u267	That is a valid point, but that observation is another one. If the return does not succeed, that, with the exception, almost always has to do with the fact that the stranger does not cooperate. Countries are willing to take their nationals back if they cooperate. Then why aren't they deported? Because we are dealing with asylum procedures in the Netherlands, in Europe. So you're gonna have to take that away. Let us not fool each other: if people are in a safe haven in the region, we have seen the sad examples of this last week, and there is still the possibility of an asylum procedure in Europe, with everything that goes with it, and there is little chance of them having to go back, people are going to try. That's why you're gonna have to scorch that route. For the sake of those people, but also for the sake of our own society, let us be clear about this. Because our society, our values in Europe, our social services, all that is untenable with open borders.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u268	Mr Zijlstra indicated that the VVD was prepared to support redistribution. Then he said: only if Europe decides to move in this direction. How am I supposed to understand that? If, for example, Europe says on Monday that it is an interesting idea and that we are going to look at it further, is that enough or should Europe say: we agree, we are going to do this, we are going to do it now?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u269	The second.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u270	So yesterday, yesterday, the High Representative made comments on this if this will be the texts from Europe next Monday and this does not mean a full commitment for the long term, is the VVD the redistribution of the table?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u271	Mr Samsom quite rightly pointed out that, in view of the plan presented by the Commission, the Commission is going to take care of the region and relocate the problem there. Mrs Mogherini replied to a very different question. She assumed what's going on right now. I saw a front page of the AD today about things that couldn't be done. It turned out to be a report from 2010. There wasn't even a cabinet proposal back then. Pretty good of you to turn down something you didn't even know back then. There are all kinds of images being created or bears being placed on the road, while we must now have the willingness to say that we are going to remove those bears and help those who drown unnecessarily in the Mediterranean Sea so that the next boy does not cross and the next girl does not cross. That is the essence of this plan. It is not easy, but let us, as politicians, get out of our daily differences of opinion and say that it is so important that we do this together and get over all the political differences. This has happened here in the coalition, and it would be a big credit to the Chamber if it were to take place in its entirety.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u272	I was very clear in my first term. It is also my desire that we should put our hands together and try to do something about this enormous problem, which has come very close at least in recent weeks. The problem is so great at the moment that we need to act now, given the enormous number of people who are now in Greece or are trying to come from Hungary to Germany, what is happening in Italy or what is happening at Calais. There are a lot of big situations where we really need to act. If we link this one-on-one to full long-term commitment, we run the risk of nothing happening on Monday. And I'd really hate that. It is fine to have a long-term vision, and it is good to see what is possible, but we also need to act now. I would regret it if this were not to happen on Monday.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u273	I understand that, and I hope that we will resolve it on Monday, in both respects. I would say to Mr Slob that if Europe does not want to go this route, which I can hardly imagine, Europe is actually saying at that time that we are not going to do anything about the real problem. So you don't solve anything before then. Then you're just slipping with the hot potato. You shouldn't do that. That is why I think it is so good of the cabinet that it has written this very tightly. If Europe does not want to solve the real problem, why should we agree to false solutions? That is the situation. The commitment of both parties and the cabinet in the letter is to do both things. We will then solve something in the short term, but that will only make sense if we have also decided on that aspect of the final solution in the long term. Otherwise, we are only dealing with false solutions and fooling each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u274	You should never fool each other, but the reality is that there are 20,000 refugees on Lesbos and that there is hardly any decent shelter or that thousands of people are sometimes taken in other places in a way that could last for one or two days, but should not last much longer. It is, of course, true that we should also look at the long term and that the short and long term should be linked, if possible. What is also true, however, is that there is now an urgent problem in which action must be taken. I would regret it if the Netherlands turned away from the short-term because there was no clarity about the long-term. Then we should be deeply ashamed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u275	I don't share that opinion. If you're just looking at the short term, I don't think you'll ever come to a solution in the long term. That's the difference; one is not a solution, the other is. That's where you're gonna have to go. I share Mr Slob's commitment, because that is how I taste his words, which he also thinks you should do both. That is also the commitment of the cabinet and also the commitment of the VVD. Period.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u276	The problem is that we all agree that there should be a redistribution in the short term and that there should be a safe region in the long term. Only, the problem is created because the cabinet and the VVD insist that one cannot do without the other. That means that if that long term is not clear on Monday, we will have a huge problem in the short term. Now Mr Zijlstra has just said: that is my commitment, but rather he said: it is my hard demand. Is it bet now or is it a tough demand?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u277	I fully share the opinion of the cabinet that writes it down in its letter, namely that if it does not happen, the long term should not be taken into account in the short term. So if that's what you want to call demands, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u278	If there is not a concrete plan for safe countries around Lebanon, Jordan and Turkey on Monday, within a few days, in four years around Syria, as far as the VVD is concerned, the cabinet will not agree to a redistribution within Europe in the short term. But then my question is how the VVD, how the cabinet will block it. For this is not by consensus, in the sense that all 28 countries must agree, it is by qualified majority; 55% of the Member States representing 65% of the population. I think that majority is already here. What does the Dutch cabinet do when that qualified majority is met? Does it then accept the short-term solution or is it the butt against the crib?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u279	That's a contradiction there isn't. The Dutch cabinet goes there with an effort and will take a decision on behalf of the Netherlands. The cabinet itself states in its letter that it will not agree to a short-term redistribution if the long-term solution is not settled. It will not agree, which seems extremely clear to me. If Europe then does something that goes in a different direction, then we will see what happens. When I hear the noises from Brussels, when I look at yesterday's committee proposal, when I hear European leaders speaking throughout Europe, there is that sense of urgency, there is that willingness to come up with a real solution. So I'm not worried about that. I think that the Dutch commitment, in my view, meant the Prime Minister there last Friday too, on the one hand, to make sure that we do not have to be divided in Europe. I think that we can include both Eastern European countries, because we are really ensuring that these asylum procedures disappear and go to the region, and that we can include a country like Germany because we do fulfil all our obligations, namely providing security, offering prospects, but then in the region. The Commission is also on that line, so I am not afraid of that scenario at all. I believe that Europe is able to take this hurdle, because Europe knows that the only real solution to preventing people from drowning in the Mediterranean is not a redistribution but a solution like the Dutch.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u280	Now very sharply, the Dutch cabinet will not agree to a redistribution of refugees if the external borders of Europe are not closed to those who come here on their own. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u281	If Europe does not decide to create safe reception in the region and therefore to stop asylum procedures for those people who can be safe there and to return those who do and not to deal with their asylum applications here, I think the cabinet should answer so, but I agree, let me be clear, the cabinet will say: we will not do so in the short term. I think that's what the letter says as a condition.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u282	I don't get it. I tried my hardest to put it simply, but I'm getting a much too long answer. I just want a quick answer: yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u283	For what?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u284	The cabinet will not agree to a fair redistribution of Europe as long as it is not clearly agreed at European level on Monday that a refugee who comes here on his own will be stopped and loses his right of asylum because, for example, he is from Lebanon or Jordan. Isn't that what you're saying?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u285	Mr Pechtold's exit is just too short, but he's coming up with a whole end. Whatever the cabinet thinks, the cabinet should report it. The answer will be forthcoming. The VVD supports the cabinet line. Why do we support that line? The only reason people come here from a safe shelter camp in the region is that there is still the possibility in Europe to apply for asylum. You have to take away the possibility of asylum, otherwise they will still get in that boat. There is also an obligation to provide real security where it may not exist at the moment. We'll take on that obligation. We always have to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u286	Now Mr Zijlstra is turning away from the earlier position. We really need to be clear when for the VVD the outcome is good on Monday. Should it say: the perspective is reception in the region and therefore no longer the right to an asylum procedure here? Or is the answer the same as Mr Samsom said: if there is only work to increase reception in the region? Those are two completely different things. Which one is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u287	Mr Van Haersma Buma also asks about the well-known road. It's just in the cabinet's letter. One condition is that it is decided to keep the long-term perspective in mind. Then the Dutch Government and also the VVD are prepared to agree to redistribution in the short term. I don't know how much clearer I have to say. I've said it many times.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u288	This is important. Mr Samsom said something completely different. He said: that's their perspective, but for us it's only about more shelter in the region. However, Mr Zijlstra is now saying that the VVD only agrees with redistribution if Europe agrees that the prospect is that asylum procedures will no longer be held here. I will keep him to that after the outcome of the consultation. The essence of his words is: no more asylum procedures here when all reception is safe in the region. That comes down to striping away all the treaties. The whole story of Mr Zijlstra about making it safe and that everyone can go there is a completely ridiculous illusion. I'm afraid that's not gonna happen. It would be better if Mr Zijlstra were to join reality.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u289	I find this statement very daring for a party leader who last week dared to suggest that we could put that safe region in Syria ourselves, even though he did not even know the difference between Benidorm and the Syrian region on the map.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u290	I would like to comment on that. I didn't do much other than join a resolution that Mr Van Baalen signed in the European Parliament in 2013. This resolution means that safe regions must also be established in Syria. That Mr Zijlstra then tries to bounce back through the saddest you-bowl of this debate, he has to know for himself. The CDA wants to explain how difficult it is to get to that source, but at least the CDA tells us what steps to take. That's what I stand for. Mr Zijlstra doesn't want that, and that's his right, but he's all giving illusions for the future that this whole room and probably 16 million Dutch people know it's not going to happen. Jordan will not accept two million refugees because Europe wants it so badly. Turkey too will not accept 2 million refugees because Europe is so anxious to do so. Mr Zijlstra wants the Dutchman to think that the VVD solves it. He's not concerned with the question of whether it's gonna be resolved.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u291	If this reasoning becomes politically common, then we should all stop. Because that means you never have to do anything, because imagine that it doesn't work. I say here in all sincerity that I cannot guarantee that it will succeed. I repeat that to Mr Van Haersma Buma, but I want us to try. I think it's gonna work, but I can't guarantee it. What the CDA actually says is: we see so many bears on the road; let's not get started. Then those people will keep coming. Then all that footage will keep coming. We should do something about that. There's no need to strike a treaty. The Refugee Convention says that you cannot send people back directly or indirectly to the country from which they fled. And that's what we meet, because we're not sending them back to that country. We give them the security set out in the Refugee Convention. It fits in there. The ECHR? Same thing. There is no right to asylum, but a right to security and a right not to be returned to the country from which you fled. Mr Buma should know that too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u292	I ask a precise question to really clarify where the difference is or maybe the agreement is. Maybe it's just two parties trying to claim it as something of their own. Both the PvdA and the VVD want to invest in the region and try to ensure safe reception. The central question now is whether Mr Zijlstra wants us to change the asylum rules in Europe, our own rules. Then he would have to explain to me how that is not contrary to the Treaties. It's true: you can send people back to a safe third country. But people will be sitting here for about five years, because that is how long these procedures take. Does Mr Zijlstra want these procedures to be adapted? Does he want someone, for example, no longer to have the right to appeal?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u293	There'll be no more procedure. This requires an adaptation of the European Asylum Protocol. That is the core on which Europe must agree to this plan. And then Europe will do it, but there is not much contradiction. Mr Samsom also mentioned it: here you have to look at how to solve this. Mr Klaver does it more indirectly than Mr Buma, but in fact he also says: I see so many bears on the road, I am not going to do it. That is what I like about Mr Samsom's answer. He said: we want to solve the problem and if this is a bump that gets in the way, then we're gonna take that bump away. Those are good words, which I very much agree with.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u294	I don't believe in the argument "it can't be." I don't want to solve it in the manner of the cabinet, because that's not what I stand for.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u295	That's different.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u296	I was trying to ask a precise question. It is not just about investment in the region, but also about adapting the asylum rules. To this end, European treaties should be adapted. People do not come into proceedings and therefore cannot appeal. It won't be procedures of four or five years. People can be returned immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u297	This is not about European treaties, it is about the asylum protocol. That is different from a treaty, but that is what we are legally going into, and that usually does not help in such a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u298	It's in different places, it's in the ECHR, it's in the Refugee Convention, it's in the Procedural Directive. You have to change all these things. That is the commitment of the VVD and the cabinet. That's how I'm supposed to read the cabinet letter on the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u299	You don't have to change the ECHR and the Refugee Convention. The directive does, that's right. That is why it is important that Europe should say yes. By the way, these are not major adjustments at all. There are no principles at all, but you will have to change a text here and there to bring it into line with those safe ports in the region. But that is not as big as Mr Klaver apparently thinks it is. That's not so bad. That is also the beauty of this solution. But then we'll have to walk that path. It is clear that Mr Klaver does not want that. That is a political opinion that I respect. In fact, he says: open the borders; those people are welcome here. I say that we must provide security for these people, but we cannot accept all the refugees in the world in Europe, because that would put Mr Klaver's party in a very difficult position. A welfare state with large social services and open borders? It's not the same thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u300	Mr Klaver, you are now being very challenged.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u301	I always appreciate Mr Zijlstra's clear position. It's always with open sights. But let us not pretend that the Netherlands or Europe is flooded by refugees. It accounts for 0.2% of the total flow of refugees in the world. Mr Zijlstra is right when he says that I believe in other ways of migration. I think you should make legal forms of migration possible. I think you should work with humanitarian visas. We accept 90% of the people who come from Syria here in the Netherlands. What I find incomprehensible is that we say to people that they must first survive a kind of six-camp, that they must cross a dangerous sea, that they must pay €1,000 per person for a boat, while we could also say: take the plane, that is a lot cheaper and a lot safer. That's exactly what I'm here for. Anyone who says that has a sucking effect shouldn't cry in photos of dead children.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u302	That's your opinion. I say that there is another solution to this, and that is what the cabinet says, namely to ensure that they are taken care of in the region. You have another solution. I congratulate you on that, because you are the only one who has suggested something else. I totally disagree, because I do not think that European society can bear that. You mention percentages, but the reality is that three asylum seekers' centres open every week in the Netherlands. Refugees always go to the same countries and in those countries the percentages are much higher. Liberals have been at the root of the creation of the current welfare state. We cherish them, but I repeat: in the long term, a welfare state does not go hand in hand with open borders. The parties should also have the courage to face that and then act accordingly. Mr. Chairman. Why are we doing this? We're doing it for all those thousands, hundreds of thousands, maybe millions of people who haven't been in a picture. I believe, having heard the contributions, that all the parties in this House want to prevent these distressing situations from occurring. I have seen a lot of sincere emotion in the Netherlands over the last few weeks. Lots of emotion! But if that emotion is real, then that emotion must also lead to a real solution. That is why the VVD is satisfied with the letter from the cabinet. It states that there must be sustainable reception of asylum seekers in their own region. Safe reception, including education and health care, will no longer be necessary in Europe. The cabinet is clear: in that case, asylum can no longer be applied for in Europe. Right to protection is no longer equal to the right to asylum. This destroys the business model of smugglers, a business model that drives the opportunity to apply for asylum in Europe. Because this possibility is being removed, it makes no sense for migrants to get into a wreckage boat, which has to wait and see if it can reach the other side. If they do, they'll go straight back to a safe haven in their own region. There is no point in hiring smugglers and taking greater risks. It is good that the cabinet has taken this step and it can. We were just talking about the refugee treaties, but they do allow them. Of course, Europe will always show solidarity when there are major problems in the world. That is also stated in the letter, but we do so through resettlement, in which we decide whether and how many people we invite. The VVD wants to halt further humanitarian tragedies, stop human trafficking and prevent the disruptive effects of large numbers of refugees and asylum seekers on our own society. I have already mentioned it with Mr Klaver, but everyone in this Chamber knows it: open borders and a welfare state like ours do not go together in the long term. It is a good thing that the cabinet is going to Brussels with this proposal. I am confident that the other European countries too will recognise that the approach adopted by the cabinet is the only real solution. Every day, they are faced with the same unsustainability of the current migration policy. They know very well that the redistribution of refugees does not solve the real problem. Redistribution does not prevent people from risking their lives by getting into a boat. The cabinet states that it is prepared to agree to the redistribution of refugees, provided that the European Member States decide to accept the Dutch proposal. The VVD can support this, because reception in the region is not arranged overnight. The VVD also strongly supports the government's view that the Netherlands will not accept redistribution proposals if Europe does not agree with the Dutch proposal. That is a consistent line, because if you really take the problem seriously, you only have to agree to real solutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u303	That is the end of the first term on the part of the Chamber. I propose that we suspend for lunch, but I see that Mr Pechtold has a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u304	Mr. Chairman. I do not want to amend that last proposal of yours, but I asked for answers to my questions this morning. As you can see, the answers are difficult here, but the simple questions I asked in response to the letter are not answered. I find it very difficult to enter into a second part of this debate with the Cabinet immediately if I do not know exactly what the facts are yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u305	I'd like to support that request. We have just heard the various statements made by the coalition parties about what exactly is in the letter. A number of political groups have asked a number of technical questions about this. I do believe that they should be answered for the second time. If the cabinet needs more time for that, I'm more than willing to give it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u306	I promised at the beginning of the debate that I would sort this out, but I haven't heard anything about it. I see I'm getting a note now, but unfortunately that doesn't contain the answer. The cabinet sits there, but it's not the usual way of doing it that way. But I understand the Prime Minister can say something about it. I'll give him the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u307	Mr. Chairman. We are going to answer all the questions that have been put to the cabinet in this debate. I do not know whether we will answer all the questions satisfactorily, but I have not heard any questions that we cannot answer. In the list of questions we received yesterday, there are really a few things that require more time. It is therefore not possible to answer all the questions on this list for the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u308	I've got a problem here. The cabinet has done a long time on its position. We received that letter two days before this debate. The cabinet has to go to Brussels on Monday. Apparently, I have been able to ask questions about the letter that cannot be answered now or in the short term. Will they be answered after the cabinet has negotiated? They're very simple questions. "Can you legally justify why this is not a violation of the UN Refugee Convention?" Those are all simple questions. "What do you consider to be the realistic quota for this year for the whole of the EU..."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u309	I'll answer those questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u310	We're not all gonna read the questions. We have a procedure here and we have agreed on this. If there are any essential questions that you would like answered before the end of the debate, you can ask them in the event of interruption. But on the written questions, we agreed with the cabinet that it would have three weeks to answer the questions. Often the cabinet tries to meet the wish of the Chamber to do so earlier, but apparently that is not possible now. The best way of ensuring that you have the answers that are essential for you to decide your position is to simply put them into the debate. I assure you that I will give you the opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u311	Constructive as we are, I would suggest that the questions I have put in writing should be regarded as questions that I have just asked in my contribution in the first period.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u312	Well, that's... of which I'd say noted. I'm not going to argue about this. I suggest we have lunch now until 2:00 p.m. After that, there will be an arrangement of work before we continue the debate.
