ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u1	Mr. Chairman. Last Sunday, on behalf of the Netherlands, the Prime Minister took part in the EU-Turkey Summit to conclude a deal on the common approach to the refugee crisis. This is, of course, a shared humanitarian problem which requires clear mutual understanding. Yet the Christian Union is surprised and outraged at the package that has been agreed. In advance, the Chamber gave the Prime Minister a clear message to Brussels: a common approach and accession to the EU are two separate paths. As everyone knows, Turkey is failing to comply with many human rights provisions. Critical journalists are being silenced. Dutch Turks receive unwanted voting advice. 1,300 refugees have now been apprehended and are in danger of being deported to Syria. But the European Union is going to work towards accession with renewed energy. That's the upside-down world. That's why I have the following questions. The abolition of the visa requirement for the Turks has nothing to do with tackling the refugee problem, and yet the Prime Minister has given it away. That is contrary to the Voordewind/Van der Staaij motion adopted. Why is this Prime Minister negotiating with the EU criteria despite a clear statement by the Chamber? Each Member State must also agree separately to the abolition of the Turkish visa requirement. Is the Prime Minister going to veto this and then carry out the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u2	Mr. Chairman. This is the day of the farewell of the group chairman of the Christian Union, Arie Slob. Working with him, I keep the best memories. I think it is special and I very much appreciate answering these questions from the Christian Union. Let me say first of all that government policy is aimed at curbing the influx of refugees into Europe. We cannot continue at this high level. We have two instruments for this. Firstly, we want to destroy the cynical business model of the smugglers, who allow people to take great risks for money when crossing Europe. Secondly, we want to see the end of asylum shopping in Europe. The agreements with the Turks are aimed at achieving the first goal, namely to demolish the business model and ensure that people stop making the crossing. We think that's very important. That is why there is an action plan with different elements. There is a financial contribution to this. The Turks have lost a lot of money to the reception of 2 million Syrian refugees in Turkey, already more than USD 8 billion. Europe is prepared not to give the money to Turkey, but to put it into the reception, education and health care of Syrians in Turkey. This is done under strict conditions and strictly conditioned, and the money is paid in stages. I shall now turn to Mr Voordewind's question. The visa requirement shall not be waived or released. Turkey will have to meet all the conditions for lifting the visa requirement that we have previously agreed. That trajectory's running. This is also in the interest of Europe and of tackling the refugee problem, because we have an interest in the return of people coming to Europe in further agreements on visa relations between Europe and Turkey. There is therefore no question of us negotiating with criteria, as Mr Voordewind said, or of us giving up that visa requirement. Let's see what we can do. If they meet all the criteria, we'll take the next steps.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u3	It is surprising, then, that the Turks say that the deal has been concluded in order to achieve visa liberalisation at least next October. This actually means that Syrian refugees in Turkey will be stopped and the Turks will, of course, be able to travel freely to Europe as of next October. That's the upside-down world. Then how does the Prime Minister explain that the Turks claim the victory of the visa liberalisation that is coming? They do speak of a deal. Because they are prepared to accept the refugees, we have been given a visa liberalisation instead. How does the Prime Minister respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u4	I refer to the previous answer. The agreements that have been made prevent irregular migration of large flows from Turkey via Greece along the Western Balkans route. That's what the arrangements are for. With regard to visa liberalisation, it has been agreed that we will comply with all the criteria and that it will only be possible if all the criteria are met.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u5	Then it remains remarkable that with renewed energy these accession talks will be speeded up. This indicates that these criteria will indeed be traded. That goes against the motion passed in this Chamber. In any case, let me ask whether the Prime Minister can promise that the 3.5 billion will not be transferred directly to the Turkish Government. My second question is the following. Will he confirm that the return of refugees to Turkey can only take place if the Refugee Convention is signed in its entirety by Turkey, i.e. guaranteeing the security and rights of refugees, which is the case when Turkey actually signs the Refugee Convention, before we send anyone back to Turkey? Can the Prime Minister confirm that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u6	I have now lost a little bit of my way, because Mr Voordewind is now starting the accession negotiations. That's a whole different chapter. This also applies if the Turks meet all the criteria, we look at this relationship chapter by chapter. That's gonna take a really long time. Nor is there any weakening of the criteria. So the chamber motions are fully executed on both points. The question of whether this money is not being transferred to the Turkish Government is something I can answer in the affirmative; we do not. This money will be made available for the reception of Syrian refugees in Turkey, about a quarter million of whom are in the camps and some 1.7 million elsewhere, especially in the southern part of Turkish society, to ensure that they receive better education and health care there so that conditions can be improved and thus the reason for possibly leaving those camps in Europe is removed. It is particularly important in the coming days that it becomes visible that this is really crucial to also gain confidence in the execution of this deal.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u7	The Prime Minister's pulling the whole thing apart. He says that we are not going to talk about signing the Refugee Convention until that chapter is discussed. I note that these negotiations have resulted in the possible return of refugees to Turkey, which seems to have been decided in the deal. I would ask the Prime Minister at least to demand from Turkey that the rights of refugees such as we are used to in Europe and the Netherlands are guaranteed by Turkey before any refugee can be returned.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u8	The aim of the agreements is precisely to improve reception facilities for refugees in Turkey. The European Union is ready to contribute financially to this. What is crucial now for the next few days and weeks is that that part of the agreements that see the reduction of this flow coming to Europe via Greece and then across land via the Western Balkans is actually being complied with, so that the Turks manage to stop that flow. I have also discussed this one-on-one with the Turkish Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoglu and have told him that it will depend on whether confidence is growing in Europe that we can actually carry out this deal; only when that confidence has grown can there be a tranche of money available for the reception of Syrian refugees. In addition, there are existing pathways on visa liberalisation and accession, and for that we are not going to weaken the criteria.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u9	The Prime Minister is dependent on the Turkish tyrant Erdogan. That is terrible, also because he is promising Turkey visa waiver and EU accession. So in addition to the current asylum invasion, we are threatening to have a Turkish invasion. The PVV calls on the Prime Minister never to let that happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u10	We're not gonna get that invasion. Besides, sometimes I really don't understand the PVV, because we don't live on an island. We are dealing with a large flow of asylum from Turkey via Greece and the Western Balkans to Europe. If you want to contain it, you will have to make agreements with countries on the edges of Europe. If you are not prepared to do so, the asylum flow will not be contained. You can't do both and then reach the first and not the second. I can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u11	Unfortunately, the Prime Minister is dependent on others, on the EU and on Turkey. Why isn't he man enough to take matters into his own hands? You can solve these problems by closing the Dutch borders and not allowing any more asylum seekers. That's what needs to be done. The Prime Minister has already let the asylum crisis get out of hand badly enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u12	I refer Mr Fritsma to the interview with his own party leader, who also says that that is nonsense.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u13	The CDA Group has serious reservations about the agreements that have been made, such as speeding up negotiations on accession, while there is the worst progress report ever made by Turkey. I called it a backup report. Journalists are being arrested, human rights are being violated and we are going to talk about accession, pay and the visa deal, in exchange for an uncertain commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u14	Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u15	Now we have to deal with the fact that we do not even have a report from that Council and we would then take it off here in Question Time. Can the government inform us as a matter of urgency what has been agreed so that we in the Chamber can have a serious debate about the most serious and far-reaching agreement the Prime Minister has made these months, rather than a quick one here?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u16	I am not dealing with the internal procedures of the Chamber. I leave that between Mr Omtzigt, the President and the rest of the Chamber. With regard to his other questions: of course, that report comes as it always comes. That is now being finalised. I can also say to Mr Omtzigt that we will measure very precisely whether the Turks comply with their commitments. I'll say one thing. In this part of Europe, we cannot continue with this influx of asylum, with these large numbers. This means that you have to work on all fronts at the same time: with the Eastern Europeans ensuring an equal distribution of asylum seekers across Europe, so that asylum shopping does stop, but it is still important to contain the influx of refugees into Europe. That is only possible if you make agreements with the countries in the region. That's what we're doing with Turkey now. As far as I am concerned, we are going to do it with Lebanon, Jordan and other countries. I sincerely hope that these agreements will succeed. I have one final point for Mr Omtzigt, because I know he wants to do the same: to curb the flow of refugees. He feels exactly the same way. This also includes the fact that we are not slackening down on the criteria for accession and visa liberalisation anywhere, but nowhere at all. We're not gonna do that. I know that Mr Omtzigt will keep me sharp on that, and rightly so. It won't be necessary, because we already do it ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u17	In the run-up to this summit, I compared Turkey's behaviour with the attitude of an oriental market merchant who negotiates heavily on a good price. Actually, my question to the Prime Minister is the following. If the Prime Minister now looks at the results and sees what reaction the Turkish Government is responding to, is he confirmed in that image of a market merchant who has negotiated well and, contrary to what most merchants do in those eastern markets, then very loudly exclaims that he has made a fantastic deal? Does that make the Prime Minister think about the interpretation of the agreements that have been made?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u18	As a VVD, I have no objection to merchants on the market. I'm their biggest fan. However, with regard to this concrete deal with the Turks, there is only one criterion for whether it will succeed, namely whether they will be able to contain this large influx of asylum into Europe in the coming weeks. If that works, then we are working on implementing the agreements. If that does not work, they do not deliver and then the other things do not come about. It's very simple and it's very easy to measure. We can keep an eye on all that every day.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u19	The second question for Mr Bishop?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u20	Yeah, I'm investing it in this part, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u21	In the Prime Minister!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u22	I can now clearly hear the Prime Minister himself establish the link between Turkey's compliance with the agreements and the agreements that have been reached with regard to the EU's accession to the EU. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u23	The talks on visa liberalisation obviously have everything to do with the flow of refugees. There are existing agreements on visa liberalisation. In this, the Turks must meet very precise, very concrete, heavy criteria. Only if they comply can the next step be taken. The same applies to the step-by-step agreements to see if the Turks are able to move forward on their path to accession. It is very doubtful whether it will succeed. We stand for our signature. We are prepared to conduct these talks, but we will not weaken the criteria. I would like to say once again, also to Mr Bishop, that we do not have so much to choose here that we can say: we do not want to talk to the Turks, let this flow of refugees come. The SGP, the CDA and other parties in the Chamber have also said that we cannot continue at this level. The cabinet therefore believes that we should make agreements with the countries in the region. That's what we're doing with the Turks first. We're gonna see if that works. I say again that Mr Bishop does not have to worry at all. We are strictly sticking to all the criteria at the points he is concerned about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u24	The Prime Minister is now saying: we have nothing to choose. That's always a dangerous position when you're negotiating, because then you can't make any demands. It is always said that there must be pace and new energy in the negotiations. Then the room says we shouldn't bargain. Then the Prime Minister says: we're not gonna bargain, we're gonna stick to the criteria; you don't have to be afraid of that. But if you keep speeding up the negotiations, putting new energy into them, and you know that wall is getting closer because the Turks haven't gotten closer to the criteria, then there are only two things that can happen: either we're gonna march or there's not gonna be a deal?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u25	That negotiation process is still going on for years and years. Very few people here in this Chamber, I think I am the only exception, will see that conclusion in an active political function. That was a joke.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u26	Oh.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u27	Mr Verhoeven will probably be the only exception. It's gonna be years and years. It is true that we can only curb the flow of refugees if we make agreements with the countries in the region. The most important agreement that is now being made, and I think it is absolutely real, is that we are prepared to contribute to the reception of Syrian refugees in Turkish society. That's a logical arrangement. You cannot expect them to turn off the crane and then pay all the costs for the reception of Syrian refugees. I think that is a very real agreement. And on these other two issues: there were already agreements; we strictly adhere to all the criteria.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u28	The fact that Turkey does not meet our wishes for democracy and human rights on many fronts is, of course, absolutely clear. But if you want to solve the migration crisis internationally, you can't just do business with sweet little countries. We therefore support the deal made by the cabinet. So far, 580,000 people have come into Europe uncontrolled. It can't go on like this. There are two important conditions. The first is: no cure, no pay, no money before the Turks deliver. The second is that there should not be two migratory flows: an illegal flow and a regulated flow. How exactly was that secured in the appointments?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u29	In my relationship with Turkey, I fully agree with Mr Van 't Wout. This is also in the cabinet letter. If Turkey were to succeed in reducing the influx to Europe to zero, you will have to look at it. We have used that terrible word "overpressure valve" or you are willing to occasionally bring groups of people, refugees from Turkey, to Europe. Of course, this can only happen if it is not on top of the current flow of refugees. The first condition is that it has to be reduced first. The second condition of the Netherlands is that we are only prepared to take a fair share in such a situation. That will be many times lower than at that large asylum influx now. But only our fair share and only if that influx goes to Europe to zero.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u30	First of all, and this is quite exceptional, I would like to congratulate the Prime Minister for his constructive attitude to this dossier. Well, that would be compliments from the department. Let me now put my specific question. The Prime Minister talked about objective criteria that will be considered in the coming days to see if migration flows can go back to zero. Does he think that is real and is he prepared to share the objective criteria with the Chamber so that we can carry out our monitoring task?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u31	Yeah, I think that's real. We can all see for ourselves every day how many there are. I would like to say to Mr Omtzigt a few words on the issue of the Refugee Convention, because I have just received an official response. In the discussions on the road map is precisely the removal of the exceptions to the Refugee Convention. On that point I can reassure Mr Omtzigt, excuse me, Mr Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u32	You have just answered a question from Mr Omtzigt, who is already well served with answers today.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u33	I had already replied to Mr Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u34	Mr Kuzu asked if it could be made clear. Can you share that with the Chamber? The last thing...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u35	I just did. We can see that all together every day when we see how many people cross to Lesbos. This is reported every day in the newspapers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u36	Mr Kuzu, your second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u37	I'd like to use my second question for this. The Prime Minister states that this should go back to zero, which I do not think is real. Does he expect him to be able to establish objective criteria for himself and for the European Union that go beyond the real zero that the Prime Minister is talking about, and that he can share them with the Chamber? We can indeed monitor migratory flows on a daily basis, but, according to the Prime Minister, when will the short-term agreement and the short-term objective be achieved in the coming days and weeks? I would like to see a more serious discussion on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u38	I just did. It's got to go to zero. I'd like to have a very heavy picture of it. It is now up to the Turks to show that they are doing it, that they are actually doing everything they can to ensure that people do not venture that crossing anymore. We will see that in the coming days and weeks. It will be very important to build on the trust they have in this agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u39	Following on from previous questioners, do I ask the Prime Minister if he can make it clear to us that we do not read back in the news or agreements on the legal admission of refugees from Turkey are part of the deal and the further development process? Can the Prime Minister confirm to me that there is a clear statement by the Turkish Government that the border with Syria is not closed and is not closed in such a way that no refugees are returned to war?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u40	On the first point, I can say that we have agreed in the agreements that we will at least use the existing resolution instrument for this purpose. The principle is therefore enshrined in the agreements. In the first instance, this is the existing resolution instrument, which is currently under way. I come to Mr Grashoff's second question. I don't have the answer to that right now, excuse me, but I do have the answer. I'm so well prepared for these conversations. This is about sending Syrian refugees back. Mr Grashoff's party also referred to this in the debate in preparation for the summit with the Turks. I myself underlined at the summit that our cooperation with Turkey is partly based on all the obligations of international law, including the principle of non-refoulement. I would point out that Turkey is in a gap. On the one hand, it must keep the border closed, for example, to stop terrorists. That's what we want. On the other hand, the country must be open to refugees. We must also be realistic in this regard. Turkey is currently catching two million refugees from Syria. The UNHCR is also monitoring this. It is also said that Turkey will open the door in the event of a sudden large stream of Syrians fleeing acute violence. In June, a group of 23,000 refugees fled violence in Tel Abyad.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u41	I would like to thank the Prime Minister for confirming that the criteria for visa liberalisation and accession are normal. It is good to repeat this over and over again, also in this context. If we want to limit the influx and close the borders better, people in Turkey must have a perspective. My question follows on from Mr Voordewind's question. The Prime Minister said that we must prevent people from leaving the camps. Most people, however, are not in camps, but simply in cities. Those people have no perspective there and no rights either. They should not be called refugees in Turkey. In what way have agreements been made to prevent people from the cities from finally taking the bus to the border to try to get to Europe?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u42	That's a fair question. The ratio is about a quarter of a million in the camps and more than 1.7 elsewhere in Turkish society, especially in the southern part of Turkey. The agreement on the 3 billion will affect both groups, both the people in the camps and the people elsewhere in society. On both fronts, the Turks will endeavour to improve the situation regarding education and health care. Of course, we also want to look at employment prospects afterwards, but it is primarily about education and health care. The World Food Programme is working on sufficient food, the primary need for life. Efforts are aimed at improving not only the conditions in the camps, as Mrs Maij says, but also the conditions of the people in the population. The agreements are also aimed at that group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u43	The Prime Minister really gives the impression that there is nothing to say about enlargement and its discussions. It's business as usual. We are sticking to the criteria. It will take years for Turkey to comply with it. That is, of course, the question. Then why is Turkey so pleased with the outcome of this summit? Why is it said that something has been achieved? Criteria are used at the end of a journey. The SP believes that the Netherlands should also keep the criteria in mind at the beginning of the journey. As far as we are concerned, this means that no further progress can be made in the negotiations either. Do not open new chapters. Turkey should not now be able to speed up the negotiation process on the grounds that it has merit in receiving refugees. Does the Prime Minister share that view?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u44	There are talks with the Turks about a multitude of things. They concern human rights, but also the subjects to which Mr Van Bommel refers. On these points, we are sticking to the agreements, the criteria, and we are not slacking down on that point. That's the most important thing. The Commission shall examine in each chapter whether it is ripe for reopening. Those are the normal process steps that are always taken. If there's a reopening, there'll be conversations. It will not be concluded until all the conditions have been met. Then at the end of the journey there is the possibility for each country to say yes or no. The same applies to the Netherlands. We reserve all our rights. We're going to take a step-by-step look at what can and can't be done. It'll take years. Once again, many of us will no longer experience this, at least not in active political service.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u45	Thank you for coming to the Chamber and for the answers you have given.
