ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-5.u1	Today we are doing the first term of this debate for the Chamber. I would like to welcome Mrs Schouten to section K. She is supported by Frank Visser, policy officer at the Christian Union Group, and Erik-Jan Hakvoort, President of PerspectiveF, the youth organisation of the Christian Union. I also welcome the Minister for Housing and National Service, who has today's birthday. He will act as an advisor to the Chamber in the examination of the initiative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the author of the legislative proposal, Mrs Schouten, for her efforts. Student housing is a serious problem. In a number of places, it's below the mark. It is also a problem that has existed for years. It also has to do with the strict rental regulations. It seems quite paradoxical that you want to do something for students by limiting rent protection in time. However, I can remember from my time in Rotterdam that rental homes for students were often occupied by people who had long been graduate and thought: I can't find anything else, I do live here nicely in the center and so I stay. So the problem is recognizable. That is why, in principle, we are also in favour of the legislative proposal. I do have one big concern. The age group from 18 to 28 is also exactly the age group of many asylum seekers entering our country. It should not, of course, be the case that, in future, instead of students, we should all house asylum seekers in these basically for students. My question is: how are we going to prevent that? Is the applicant aware of that risk? Does she agree that this should not happen? Does she agree that this point should be part of her legislative proposal? We just got a response from the housing corporations. They asked whether it would not be better to terminate rent protection automatically after five years than to do so by contract. I shall put that question to the author, Mrs Schouten. So we are mostly positive about the bill, with the remark that we need to make sure that it is really meant for Dutch students and not for asylum seekers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-5.u3	Mr. Chairman. We congratulate Mr Schouten on her initiative proposal and congratulate the Minister on his birthday. The Labour Party attaches great importance to the protection of rents and the protection of rents. They are there to provide vulnerable people with security about their housing and protect them from less bona fide landlords. Rent protection is particularly important for people who already live in a rental house. However, for people who do not yet live independently, there are hardly any instruments to increase their chances of housing. Because of the increasing scarcity in the social housing stock, more and more groups of people looking for housing are getting into trouble. We believe that these people would have been best helped by the construction of new, cheap rental homes. Of course, it takes a lot of time before there are enough such homes. So people looking for a short-term home are not helped. We agree with the initiativer that, under the current circumstances, it is particularly young people who are getting into trouble. We also recognise that there will be a large group of start-ups who will be able to make a career and earn more in a limited time and who will be able to take a next step in the living career as soon as possible. The possibility for municipalities to label part of the cheap stock especially for young people will increase the chances of housing for young people. If this is accompanied by a limited-time rental contract, then it is also assured that such a property will then become available to new start-ups. We are not opposed to targeted measures for specific target groups under the current conditions of an increasingly scarce supply of social housing. However, we are opposed to allowing for temporary leases across the board. Fixed leases should remain the norm. We do not think that a build-up of flexibility provisions along the route of the Civil Code is very logical. We think it would be better to codify their own use urgently in another law, more public law-oriented. We have the following comments to make about the initiativer's proposal. The Labour Party believes that youth contracts should only be allowed where they are needed. This can be done by empowering municipalities to label homes as youth homes for a longer period of time. The municipalities can thus also direct that there are actually sufficient housing available for young people. They can prevent landlords from taking advantage of the scheme to increase the rent with each change, making the property unreachable for young people. We have tabled an amendment to this effect. The Labour Party considers that the proposal for an initiative does not include sufficient safeguards for young people who still fall within the social target group after the expiry of the term of the lease. The Labour Party believes that the landlord should be subject to a duty of care for those young people. We have also tabled an amendment to that effect. Our third point is the question to the initiator whether after the expiry of the temporary lease, i.e. after five years and in exceptional cases seven years, there will be sufficient supply in all housing markets in the Netherlands for young people who no longer belong to the social target group. They do not need to go through the registration time. In large parts of the Netherlands there is a large lack of middle-priced rentals and the entry threshold to the market for the sale has been substantially increased. The Labour Party wonders why the initiator did not include a variable second term for young people with incomes above the social target group, who, in view of the offer in the relevant region of residence, have no chance or need more time to emigrate from the social stock. The initiator shall opt for an evaluation after five years. We think this is early because the situation with possible extension of youth contracts is not yet measurable. We suggest that an evaluation should also be carried out after 10 years, and that this should also be noted for the question of whether the scheme can be continued or terminated, as young people may now have a reasonable chance of success in the regular housing market. In the note following the report, we read that if neither of the parties cancels the lease, the lease will automatically become an indefinite lease. We do not think that this is consistent. We also consider that the scheme envisaged by the initiator to be inappropriate. In this way, a house earmarked for young people disappears from stock. If this happens regularly, tenants may get the impression that there is always a chance to stay in the house after the expiry of the period. This seems to us to undermine the effectiveness of the initiative. We would like to hear a response from her on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-5.u4	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to congratulate the Minister. On 10 April 2013, the Temporary Committee Huizenprijs published her report Kosten Koper. The committee gave an overview of a completely disrupted housing market. 50 years of central planning had led to a complete rigidity of that market; supply-side rigidity, which could lead to large price fluctuations on the demand side. The temporary committee Huizenprijs found in the same report that the flow of social rent to purchase was becoming more and more difficult, especially because the prices were not at all consistent with the quality offered. Because why move if you can get a terraced house in the Jordaan for €500 a month or for €300 a month? You don't, even if you make a ton a year. Hence the joint efforts of this Chamber to improve the flow of the social rental sector. We have supported the new Housing Act, so housing corporations will simply rebuild for people with a small wallet. We've entered the fitting test. In principle, people with a thick wallet don't get into corporations. We've introduced the income-dependent rent increase. If you live somewhere and your wallet gets fatter, you pay a little more rent hoping you'll look around. Temporary leases fit in with the broad idea of a smoothly functioning housing market. Outside the housing corporations, they also lead to more offers. If you can get rid of a rental contract more easily, as a small landlord, you are much more likely to market a property. I would like to thank and congratulate Mr Schouten on her initiative proposal, which fits in well with the policy that we have worked out together with a large majority of the House over the last three years. In September Aedes and Woonbond had the report Passend living published by research agency ABF. Mrs Schouten could not have had better support. Temporary leases for young people are good for the availability of housing, helping against skews and, above all, have quick effects. I can't add much to that. This bill can count on warm support from the VVD. It is not even a question of solving an urgent shortage of youth housing, because in most cities there is no longer a quantitative shortage of student housing. Much more important is that temporary rent in general contributes to the functioning of the housing market. I noticed that amendments have been tabled to the legislative proposal. I ask the author of the bill whether she can indicate to what extent they contribute to the purpose of her own initiative proposal. For the VVD Group, this would create a new situation, because it believes that this would substantially change the law. In her term, Mrs Schouten may also be able to comment on the consistency with the draft lease market that the Minister has announced.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-5.u5	Mr. Chairman. It's always nice to see a fellow chamber member in box K. I myself was allowed to sit down to defend an initiative proposal. That was then about preventing public transport from being sold in the big cities. By the way, that bill has passed and is now a law. There's a lot of work ahead of you when you're allowed to sit in box K as a Member of Parliament. You have to write the bill yourself. You have to answer the questions of the written round. In any case, Mrs Schouten and her staff receive a compliment, just because they are in trade-K. At the same time, I congratulate the Minister on his birthday. Mr. Chairman. It is difficult for different groups to qualify for an affordable rental house. There is a lot of scarcity and little supply and there are long waiting lists. In the previous version of Mrs Schouten's bill, young people could not build waiting periods to qualify for a social housing. In the current version there is this possibility. This means that the rights of these tenants are less affected, and that is a step in the right direction. The legislative proposal thus shows an improvement on the original legislative proposal, but we still have important questions. Does this bill help solve the housing shortage that exists in many places? Is the flow actually improving? Will the rights of tenants remain adequate? According to the SP Group, more social housing needs to be built. That is what the SP Group has often sought and argued for. In what way is this bill going to stimulate housing? Or is the scarcity only distributed in a different way rather than solved? What is the initiator going to do against the landlord tax that hinders investment by corporations? In 2014, 40% less investments were made as a result of the landlord levy. The bill allows temporary leases for young people up to 27 years of age. By doing so, this bill distinguishes between old and young. The SP Group is struggling to distinguish between old and young, studying and not studying, because everyone is entitled to an affordable home without waiting lists. Does Mrs Schouten agree with me that the Constitution entitles everyone to a roof over his head? Why does it suddenly need to be distinguished in age? Who says 27 will actually stay 27? The age limit reminds me of another discussion, a discussion about the Tax Plan. There was a one-off increase in the grant tax exemption for children up to 35 years old. That age was raised to 40 years after much discussion. During the last debate on the Tax Plan, Mr Krol of 50PLUS asked why this limit could not be further increased, because the elderly are now discriminated against. So the question now is how do we know for sure that 27 stays 27. The SP Group fears that, in the long term, the age limit will be removed and that the standard will be a temporary lease for everyone. I would like to hear a reply from Mrs Schouten. The petitioner already indicated that the waiting lists are difficult to predict. The minister hasn't provided any insight so far. Then why should we now agree to a new form of temporary leases? What is the need for this and why would this bill help to shorten the waiting lists? Several temporary contracts are already possible. When the groups eligible for a temporary contract continue to expand, temporary contracts will become the norm and not the exception. How does the initiator of this bill intend to prevent this from happening? We know that rights are being undermined, not to mention the right-free living on anti-cracking contracts. Previously, the SP Group has proposed banning the right to live on the basis of these loan contracts. How does Mrs Schouten feel about this? Does she agree with the SP Group that young people have been helped and, if so, can this be included in its legislative proposal? Mrs Schouten says that young people often have to live at home. But is it better to force young people to opt for a temporary contract instead of security? To what extent is there still a choice? As far as the SP Group is concerned, it is undesirable for young people and other tenants to go from temporary contract to temporary contract, for example from campus contract to temporary youth contract. How will that be prevented? That brings with it a lot of uncertainty. In the labour market, for example, there is also uncertainty due to temporary contracts. Are we gonna get next to flexwork, now we're gonna get to live flex? Where does it end? Do we get flex diplomas, flex households, flex marriages and flex children? I would like a reply from Mrs Schouten. One last concern we have is the connection that people have with the neighborhood or the neighborhood if one only has a temporary contract. Building a bond or feeling responsible will not happen as soon as you know you will have to move again after a while. How does Mrs Schouten see this? How are we going to keep the bonding in the neighborhood? So the SP Group still has some questions about the bill. I do not want to underestimate Mrs Schouten's efforts. I would rather hope for encouraging answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-5.u6	Mr. Chairman. The CDA also welcomes Mrs Schouten's initiative. Compliments for the work that has been done in the meantime. Thank you for answering the questions put by the CDA. Taking stock, we can be as CDA positive. It will not be the solution for the overcrowded rental market but will certainly contribute to alleviating the pressure on the rental market and specifically for young people. What we would like to hear from the initiator is the following. What should a tenant do after termination of the temporary contract? The pressure on the housing market, especially for young people at the start of their living career, is high and there is no large supply. Temporary leases shall be terminated automatically in the direction of the tenants. Suppose a younger five years with a temporary lease lives in an apartment in a big city and that this contract expires and he doesn't have a high place on the list of property seekers. And then what? How does the initiator view this? So what should be done in practice? The CDA believes that a temporary rental contract can help to get a larger offer on the rental market because people don't rent out now because of the risk of being stuck with it. The change in the law brings a little more security for the owner of the house. The cancellation of the rental protection was the toughest point for the CDA. This has a far-reaching effect on and major consequences for the safety of a primary need for living. The whole legislation on rental is soaked with the basic idea that the tenant should be protected. The vulnerable tenant must not become dependent on a erratic landlord. Such an intervention therefore requires a heavy justification. The fact that there will be more available housing units has drawn us over the line. Ultimately, this offers more opportunities for young people looking for adequate housing. So much for my first term, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-5.u7	Mr. Chairman. Let me begin with a wish of happiness to the Minister for his birthday. I feel privileged that he has chosen to spend this day among us. Where else, indeed? This is the most appropriate situation. I would also like to congratulate Mrs Schouten and her collaborators. I always have appreciation and respect for people who indeed shape their legislative work in this Chamber in this way. We have some questions, but that does not alter the appreciation we have for the present legislative proposal and the initiative as such. Young couples living with their parents in the attic; they are well-known pictures that you can find in the history books about the post-war period. It may look cozy afterwards, but it was at least that does not seem ideal to me. Even now, we face similar challenges to tackle tight housing. The SGP congratulates the initiator on looking for practical short-term solutions with this proposal, while, of course, the need for structural solutions remains clear. In addition to existing opportunities for students, the proposal focuses specifically on young people. However, it is striking that the proposal is close to the need to provide additional accommodation for asylum seekers with a residence permit. I say it from a different angle from Mr Madlener, but the proposed construction of a temporary contract with the possibility of an extension also fits exactly the need for this target group. To what extent does the initiator see scope for broadening the proposal in this respect? The understandable desire for relaxation also entails the risk of undesirable effects. Creativity with many tenants is in itself to be encouraged, but there are limits. In this context, the SGP calls for attention to be paid to two points. Firstly, many tenants can use the temporary contract as a wider trial period to reduce risks. Tenants who would normally be offered a contract for an indefinite period of time can now be tested for five years. Why does the initiator not see sufficient grounds for introducing additional safeguards against this form of improper use of the scheme? Secondly, the initiator expects temporary contracts to be used in housing which is already being used for young people. What exactly is this expectation based on? What would she say if it appeared that a larger proportion of the housing stock was rented out on a temporary basis, which could lead to further difficulties for groups other than young people? The SGP believes that the proposal should not go beyond those groups that really need this support. This does not seem to be the case for young people who have sufficient income to rent a regular home in the free sector. Isn't there a risk to them that they'll run into a temporary contract first? Why does the initiator not need more protection for such groups? The SGP has the impression that the scheme envisaged by the initiator is duplicated in the proposal, which may, however, create confusion as to its purpose. It's a bit of a legal story, but it's good that clarity is created at this point. In Section A of Article I, young people, to whom the initiator refers, are described as "student" and are thereby allowed to terminate the contract. This regulation is then re-implemented at the heart of the proposal, part B, on the basis of a separate age definition. Perhaps the initiator would like to explain how this assembly should be read. The SGP notes that regular connection problems arise for fast learners who make the transition to higher education. For example, the link between child benefit and study funding creates bottlenecks. The SGP has the impression that fast learners in need of housing are lagging behind with this proposal. In response to our questions, the initiator only indicates that these tenants can conclude a regular contract. Why is the temporary contract not made possible for them? Is it prepared to broaden the scope for this small group, which is already facing enough challenges? The SGP is considering an amendment on this point. When it comes to extending the temporary contract, there is no clear course. The proposal does not restrict the substance of the extension. In the note following the report, the initiator also acknowledges that special circumstances are not required and that the main focus is on agreement between the landlord and the tenant. However, in the explanatory memorandum, it is stated that, in special circumstances, renewal is possible and that the tenant is deemed to seek other accommodation within the five-year period. I would like to invite the initiator to create clarity. As long as the proposal is not amended, the SGP assumes that there are no further conditions. I look forward with interest to the reaction of the initiator and the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-5.u8	Mr. Chairman. I would like to start by congratulating Mrs Schouten and her staff on this initiative. Certainly, given the many portfolios that Mrs Schouten manages here, it is good that she has found the time for this. D66 is in favour of the bill. I do have a lot of questions, because you can't just get away with an initiative bill. But in a constructive attitude, as Mrs Schouten is used to me. For a long time, D66 has been deeply concerned about the state of the housing market. One of the many problems that our housing market is rich is that the social rental market hardly has any flow. The waiting lists are long, the average waiting period is sometimes eight years, with outliers to 21 years, and especially young people are indeed affected. They do not have the money to buy or rent in the free sector and cannot get social housing. Mrs Schouten's current bill is a nice building block in the improvement of the purchase and rental market and therefore, once again, my compliments. The proposal provides some relief for these young people, who are otherwise dependent on waiting and hoping. On the other hand, the proposal is just one stone and many more will be needed. That is why my first question. Within the Ministry is a zipper plan ready to tackle the waiting lists. To what extent does Mrs Schouten know that this bill is in line with these plans? Maybe she could talk to the counselor about that? I congratulate that consultant on his birthday, by the way. The bill proposes a temporary contract period of five years. In Amsterdam they have already experimented with temporary contracts. The experiment showed that after a temporary contract young people were still concerned about finding a social housing. This is in line with expectations, as waiting times in large cities are often longer than five years. The Council of State is therefore concerned that the system of temporary contracts will not simply push the problem through. That is why I have a few questions for Mrs Schouten. 1. Isn't five years too short? 2. How many young people are expected to make use of the two-year delay? 3. Should only a limited group use this, what does that mean for effectiveness? The waiting list problem is of course not the same in all municipalities, and fortunately. Young people want to settle in a city of study. Thus, it is wise to align any policy to combat the waiting list issue with the municipalities. They also need to get their hands on the reins because they know better what fits best in that church. Are there any municipalities that have indicated that they would like to get to work on the bill? Will performance agreements be reached on a minimum and maximum number of dwellings available for this purpose? I would like to receive an answer from Mrs Schouten. In addition, I sincerely wonder whether this plan could not have an adverse effect on the affordability of rentals. After all, social rent must remain payable at all times to those who cannot live without social rent. By making temporary contracts possible, harmonisation is likely to be more frequent. Is there any insight into how these temporary contracts are going to affect the harmonisation of rental prices, or is this looking for nails on low water? My colleague Schouten's bill is, as I said earlier, a fine first stone. However, many stones will still have to be laid before the Dutch purchase and rental market is converted into a healthy, normally functioning market. And we also have to ask ourselves to what extent we can improve the rental market with plans and when we have to decide to build old-fashionedly. For now, I wish Mrs Schouten every success in answering the questions and working out them. Again, D66 is constructively opposed to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-5.u9	This brings to an end the first term of office. In consultation with the initiator, the continuation will be planned at a later date, after the ceremony.
