ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister, as well as the spokesmen. I would like to give the floor to Mr Ulenbelt as the first speaker on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. An "lighter labour law regime" for people with an AOW who work. It is a covert political language, because it leads to less protection in case of illness, more flex contracts and less protection in case of dismissal. This bill makes working AOW workers cheaper for employers and not so little. Modal is already worth €10,000 per year. According to the SP Group, it is fundamentally wrong to treat older workers who are retired differently from other workers. Why, then, should we treat them unequally, I ask the Minister? We have youth wages, and now we have older people's wages. My party does not think that is desirable. This bill is a blow to the face of the older job seeker and the young unemployed. Actually, it's an uplifting middle finger to all the people who are unemployed and looking for work. It is also a bit sad that this Minister, of course, has to defend this bill, because this bill goes back to a time when Mr Donner was Minister. Mr Kamp has tried. It didn't happen then, but it's likely to happen now. It started with the Bakker Committee in 2008. He said that we would now, in 2015, be short 375,000 people. Dramatic stories were told about lack of hands in care, while mass redundancies are now taking place there. There would be hardly any teachers left. One great disaster threatened the country, so was the prediction in 2008. That's why we had to work longer. Those who look carefully can see that the predictions of that time are based on quicksand and did not come true, but this reasoning, that expectation, is at the basis of this bill. Bakker was wrong. All the parties who have been inspired by the Bakker Committee were and are wrong. I'd like to ask the Minister if Bakker was wrong. The measures for longer working hours were taken in a panic at the time. Keep working, there's one of them. In a period of unemployment as at present, there are 600,000 unemployed people who are no longer chasing people into the labour market.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u3	I know Mr Ulenbelt as a spokesperson who knows his classics well. Is he aware of the ESC opinion of 21 January 2005 "Of all ages: A forward-looking policy for the elderly in the fields of employment, income, pensions and care"?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u4	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u5	Does Mr Ulenbelt know what it says?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u6	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u7	I quote one sentence: 'It already appears from the foregoing that the Council considers that it should be possible to continue working after reaching retirement age'. How does Mr Ulenbelt feel about this? This is what the Economic and Social Council says, in which employers, employees and crown members are represented.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u8	I totally agree with him. My party has never resisted people going to work after the AOW, but she has always said: under the same conditions as others. So there is no difference between what the ESC said in 2006 and what I am arguing here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u9	I would like to begin by congratulating Mr Ulenbelt. For years, he's been fighting againstzzp'ers here. Now he is tabling an amendment to ensure that we are sure that no employer will hire anyone after the age of AOW. As a result, even more elderly people who want to continue to work have to do so as a self-employed person. Is the new line of the SP that everyone has to become almost mandatoryzzp'er over his 65th?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u10	What Mr Van Weyenberg is now proclaiming is bullshit. Indeed, there are a lot ofzzp'ers who continue to work after their AOW. But those arezzp'ers who were before that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u11	Mr Ulenbelt must stick to the facts. The essence is that employers are very reluctant to sign a contract. This bill will do that. The SP apparently feels so bad that she says: do you all sit at home; we do not want you to work. That is what Mr Ulenbelt is really doing today for people over 65.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u12	No, everyone can work after the AOW, but under the same conditions as other people in the Netherlands. D66 lets people work and at the same time takes away their rights. That's how we know this club, but that's not my club.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u13	But Mr Ulenbelt also knows that if we do this the way he wants it to be used. Then there's no protection at all. What does Mr Ulenbelt want with regard to the people who are going to work through a temporary agency? Isn't it much nicer when they enlist?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u14	Getting into service is, of course, nice, but with the same rights. I predict the next thing to happen. Pensioners are now so cheap for employers that they will recruit them. This is at the expense of jobseekers under 65, for example the people of 55 and the young. That's what's gonna happen. Everyone warns of the displacement. CNV, FNV, secondary and senior staff and the elderly organisations reject this lighter labour law regime. The SP is their party and the SGP is not.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u15	If employers want to do so, they can do so now via the temporary agency structure. So it's just what your frame of reference is. Mr Ulenbelt says it leads to repression. I'm saying that if employers want cheap labour, they do it through a temporary agency. This bill makes it more attractive to employ these people. So you give them more protection than they get now, instead of less protection.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u16	The main obstacle for employers to take on permanent employment is the two-year payment of wages in the event of illness. So my party has always proposed to do something about that. We need to make this shorter, for example six weeks or six months. If we do that for people under 65 and for people over 65, that obstacle is gone. Then you maintain the equal rights and then we pay the diseases out of a collective premium. For example, the burden is evenly distributed and does not happen to affect one employer where there is a great deal of absenteeism.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u17	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u18	The panic stories of then Minister Donner said: "There are too few young people to take over all the jobs left behind by the elderly." "A great problem," he called it. Looking back, the words of Minister Donner were bullshit. Minister Kamp continued on the same tour. He wanted more temporary contracts for the elderly. He also wanted a shorter paycheck in case of illness. Now we have this bill, which has known such a long history. The elderly organisations point out the major deteriorations and the joint trade unions reject it. The minister's acting a bit like retired people are going to work for fun. But if you're gonna do things for fun, you're gonna volunteer. That's very nice, too. The reality is, however, that an increasing proportion of pensioners have to work alongside their AOW because of a bitter need. People will want to compensate for the deterioration of pensions for ten years of non-indexation of pensions means a loss of gigapo bility.... with work. The Minister will say: that's only one in ten. The ANBO investigated this for the Netherlands and concluded that 24% of pensioners who work do so because of their finances. The ANBO has also investigated how many non-pensioners think they should update after the AOW age, which is as much as 24%. So we're talking about a very big group. The Chamber was aware of displacement. That is why on 4 December 2013 she adopted a motion by Mrs Hammer and Mr Kerstens to prevent displacement. That's when it was seen. A majority of the Chamber therefore requested a level playing field in labour costs for the employer. The Minister's reply to this motion came in the note following the report: it was not chosen. The Minister therefore ignores the majority ruling of the House of Representatives in this legislative proposal. The law called for maximum displacement to be avoided, which is not happening now. The Minister's message is clear: he has no message to that majority speech of the House of Representatives. The question in this debate is, of course, whether the Group of the Party of Labour and the other groups who supported this motion remain in favour of their position. If they do, they'll reject this bill, I think. That is why I have tabled an amendment which does regulate equal rights for 65-plus and 65-min. With that amendment, we are ensuring that employers continue to pay employee contributions and social security contributions, including for 65-plus, so that the employer cannot compete on labour costs. So what I am doing and the Minister is not doing is doing that 2013 Chamber ruling. I think that's very nice. If the majority of the House meant what she said then, then there is nothing else for her to do but support the Ulenbelt amendment. The chairman of the CNV called for this this morning. We reject this law unless the amendment is adopted.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u19	Mr. Chairman. Unlike Mr Ulenbelt of the Socialist Party, D66 is pleased that this bill is finally in the Chamber. It makes it easier to continue working after retirement on the basis of a contract of employment. It's about time. Mrs Vermeij already quoted: this was discussed in ESC opinions as early as 2005. Why don't you take away the obstacles to working through? Not because people have to, but to give people that chance as employees. That fits a trend. More and more people over the AOW age are healthy and vital and want to continue working. This can be voluntary work, but of course it can also be paid work. The bill fits a social trend. I think it is a breakthrough that, after years of talking, we are finally broadening that legal base. We have seen that more and more people are taking advantage of the opportunity to continue working. The number of 65- to 69-year-olds working has doubled to almost 13% in the past 14 years. Most of them don't do that to make some extra money, which, of course, is also very nice, and they don't do that to build up some extra pension, which is an important reason for a number of people, but above all because they just want to continue to do paid work. Then who are we to put up obstacles to that? At the moment, this work takes place almost always as a zzp'er. 'Cause an employer will be careful to give someone a contract. In that sense, this bill will bring more balance to bear. Of course, it is okay to be a zzp worker or as a temporary worker, but also for employers, it is now finally, after years of talking, more attractive to simply give people a contract of employment. That seems like a fantastic step. The fact that the SP apparently opposes facilitating the award of a contract is something striking in this debate. My group still has a number of questions, firstly about the need to keep saving for your pension if you, as a retired person, decide to still carry out paid work. On the one hand, there are people who still have compulsory pension savings, which they really do not want, because they already want their pension high enough and because they prefer a higher wage: "Why do I still have to save? I'm 70 years old; why do I have to pay pension contributions?" On the other hand, there are also people who are no longer able to build up their pensions, but who might want to. So I am left with a lot of questions about how this is arranged and how we can best deal with it in the future. Is the Minister prepared to do further research into how to deal with that retirement? After all, it's pinching now. It pinches for people who want to save but can't save and for those who have to save but don't really want to. I think there are still some successes to be made here; hence this request. The word 'displacement' often falls into all the trade unions' letters, but let us keep looking at the facts. All studies and all experience show that there is no reason to be afraid of displacement. It's fine to keep investigating, but looking at the experience, including in other countries, there's no reason to think that a job for a 65-year-old would be at the expense of a job for someone else. I think this is an extremely unpleasant line of reasoning at all, because the reasoning of people who are now talking a lot about repression is exactly the same as the one we forced housewives to give up their jobs after their marriage in the 1950s because they would thus occupy a job for a breadwinner. That is exactly the same argument as if you would restrict people over 65 now in their right to continue working. The facts do not at all support the threat of a problem here; just look at the past 20 years. Fortunately, more and more older people have continued to work over 50 and a total of 1.7 million jobs have been created. This has not led to more unemployment among young people. So I'm looking forward to that monitoring with a lot of confidence.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u20	Let me ask you a question about this argument. In the long term and structuralally, the CPB supports Mr Van Weyenberg's story: structuralally, there is no displacement. I think, however, that Mr Van Weyenberg, on behalf of D66, is playing down the risk for the short term very much, because the CPB also calculates that there may be some displacement in the short term. Does D66 say here that that's total bullshit, that we should do the monitor but that the answer is already known? Or does Mr Van Weyenberg, on behalf of D66, see the risk to which the CPB points and think that we should be aware of this in the short term?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u21	As I said, I am fine with doing that research, but the experience in other countries is clear. The CPB report even states that in a number of cases it appears that a higher retirement age, which also means that more older people work together with fewer youth unemployment, i.e. not more but less youth unemployment. Why? Because the people who do that work, of course also take an extra terrace and maybe buy a new kitchen faster. I am fine with monitoring this and we should not close our eyes to that risk, but I am looking forward to the outcome with great confidence.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u22	I am glad that Mr Van Weyenberg is at least a little more nuanced on behalf of D66 than he was just now. Does he also see the risk that this may vary by sector? There are indeed sectors where you will not see any displacement at all, but there may also be sectors where you will see displacement. We must also be aware of this in the years to come when we consider the effects of displacement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u23	In fact, I think it would be a good idea to look at sectors too. However, experience has shown that in a number of sectors the work seems to be well suited to both the needs of 65-plussers and to the flexibility required by employers, but for those who work with them, e.g. in the catering and transport of pupils. The minister's gonna monitor the displacement. How exactly he is going to do that is, in my view, still a matter of thought, including with the Minister. He says that he will focus on the relationship between the participation of people between 60 and 65 years of age and the participation of people between 65 and 70 years of age. At the same time, he says that he still needs to talk to the CBS very well because we must not forget that the AOW-age of course also rises. How exactly does the Minister intend to conduct this investigation? How is he going to ensure that we are also going to correct for cyclical effects? They can play a role, as can be seen from the figures for the last 15 years. How does he intend to inform the Chamber of the exact form he intends to give that monitor? Together with Mr Mulder of the VVD Group, I have tabled an amendment on the chain clause. Originally, the idea was to release all temporary contracts completely. The Minister writes that the European directive is not allowed to do so. Do I understand correctly that the European directive requires that you agree on a limit somewhere, but that you leave it entirely free to Member States what that limit looks like? Is that an accurate representation? The amendment that we have tabled will always make it possible to do six contracts in four years. The bill states that this can only be done if agreements are reached in the collective agreement. I do not see why it is necessary to limit this freedom for workers, and especially, of course, for workers. Automatically grant them the right to six temporary contracts in four years. I think employers will give people that contract much easier. That is still the purpose of this bill. Finally, there is this bill; my group will support it. Can the Minister still comment on a situation which unfortunately still existed, namely that people were dismissed at the age of 65 because the collective agreement was not adapted to the increased AOW age? Is that still happening or is that problem finally a thing of the past today? My group will support this proposal. It was also in the budget agreement to finally put this into a legislative proposal after years of talk and to deal with it in the Chamber. The Minister knows that I like to quote André Hazes when it comes to his laws: 'It is time, it is time'.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u24	Mr. Chairman. Today, we are discussing a bill that has reached the Chamber in previous forms....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The Council of State recalls, among other things, a 2008 memorandum by the Minister of Social Affairs, entitled "One is as old as one feels." That in itself could also be a title of a song by André Hazes. That note states that reaching retirement age in the future is less regarded as a fixed and permanent end-point of working life. Following the above-mentioned ESC opinion from 2005-06. Some of today's key players from the social partners' world already participated in this ESC. It is, of course, funny to think about who the then Minister of Social Affairs was and who the current Vice-President of the Council of State, who goes into it extensively. Indeed, it is quoted here from its own work. However, the draft legislative proposal of the same Minister from 2010 on the AOW age increase also included elements, including flexible AOW, and even a part-time AOW, which were aimed at continuing the work after reaching the AOW age. Later in 2012, we also considered this in the framework of the then legislative proposal and tried to table an amendment. Now there's a law that comes from an agreement from the autumn agreement. You can imagine that as a PvdAer, I have been able to stand for quite a lot of difficult venues, with older people who were worried about their pension and the increase in the retirement age of the AOW, and who were wondering whether they would make it to that finish line. In those halls, however, there were always a few people who weren't the majority, but they were a few who came for something else and were actually very angry about it, namely why they were no longer allowed to work. I admit it was always just a few, but it was a constant. By the way, it was mostly people who liked to just keep working as a complement to their lives but also as a fulfillment in their lives. The Council of State and others also point out that it can be financially attractive. In this context, I refer in particular to the people with a very small pension or with a very incomplete AOW, who are missing a few years. Then you're talking about a completely different motivation. The expectation is that the group that wants this is very small and that the enthusiasm among employers is not very large either. How does the government view this? Has the government also figured out what kind of jobs it's gonna be? And what's the mood for employers right now? I share the government's wish, and I also think of a majority in this Chamber, to make it possible to work with ordinary contracts as much as possible. Fortunately, this law can do much better. In doing so, we are making AOW-plus more expensive than the young job seeker, to put it bluntly. That's good. But when has that objective been achieved? When are we gonna tell them it's working? I think it's a good thing this law is there, but we have to keep an eye on it. In a way, this law makes it less easy to exploit working AOW'ers in all kinds of temp constructions and zzp-like constructions. You have to pay at least the minimum wage and if you resign, they, with an alternative income, will be the first. In this way we are also endeavouring to comply with the Hamer/Kerstens motion, already mentioned by my colleague Ulenbelt, which was tabled when the 2014 budget was discussed. Don't I have any concern about this bill? Yes, you do. This has to do with the vulnerable position of older people in the labour market, especially those with lower education. I have noticed that the cabinet is also concerned. In my view, however, it does not have sufficient consequences. There will be many new vacancies this year, but the intention is that older unemployed will also benefit from them. Premium discounts and no-risk policies have to strike a balance between employers. The practice, however, has proved to be unwieldy. Will AOW-plus be competing with them soon? Who knows, let's say it. A good evaluation, after a short period of time, therefore seems really necessary in my group's view. In the short term, we can see whether there is displacement and whether we need to take additional measures. Is the cabinet prepared to look not only at this displacement but also, as I mentioned earlier, at the kind of jobs these people have, and to take into account the position of older workers in the labour market? Furthermore, my group is of the opinion that this will not surprise me if one of the hot issues in this bill is the six-week payment of wages. However much I see that a long-term crazy, given the additional income on the sidelines, I have to say that we have a huge difference between workers before and employees after the AOW age. In the conversations I had, I experienced that employers' pay-through is one of the major pitfalls of hiring and that employers' fears of long-term illness are greatest, particularly with regard to older workers, whether justified or not. I do, however, have to ask this question, a little bit aside from this debate, what it actually is like in the case of illness and breakdown, and whether we know a little bit more about age cohorts in that respect. As far as I know, I have seen that from studies I know, especially younger employees are more often ill and older workers are longer. It's interesting to take a closer look at that. That is why my group is in favour of extending the payment of wages over the next two years, especially as we simply do not know. My colleague Carola Schouten and I will be tabling an amendment to that effect in the course of this debate. It is then an extension from six to thirteen weeks. This thirteen-week period is the result of an earlier law, the Gatekeeper Improvement Act, which requires long-term illness to be reported to the UWV. We can then see if we can do something about this short-term displacement, which Mr Heerma has already pointed out. If we monitor this properly, we will have the debate after the evaluation on whether we can put it back to six weeks or whether we can keep it to those thirteen weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u25	After the very negative input of the SP and the very positive input of D66, Mrs Vermeij of the PvdA brings some nuance into the debate. I think that fits this law, too. It is not just about removing barriers, it is not just about repression. It's about the balance between them: how do you remove barriers without getting that displacement? I understand the thrust of this amendment over the thirteen weeks. I'm certainly not insensitive to it either. At the same time, the Minister's written reply was also sound. I am therefore curious to see what his reaction to this amendment will be. However, I have a particular question about the amendment tabled by the D66 and the VVD groups. The cabinet clearly indicates that sector-by-sector displacement can be very different. Mr Van Weyenberg has just confirmed this in his term. However, if you lay it down in a law rather than in collective agreements, you will remove the scope for employers and employees to look at it by sector. How does Mrs Vermeij of the PvdA view this, given the risk of displacement which she highlighted in her term?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u26	Mr Heerma knows me as a person who naturally thinks that this can be perfectly arranged in collective agreements. I think that is partly because of my political colour. The social partners can really come out of that. At the same time, we are in a special situation. People who want to work after the AOW age, we want to offer as many contracts as possible. I was not so negative in advance that it would not be possible in certain sectors. I see the desire of VVD and D66, but we could very well include them in the evaluation. Any luck offering people those contracts? I think that's what we all want. And what is the size of that active group? I am neither negative nor positive. I would like to include that in the evaluation after a few years.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u27	This answer is a little too evasive for me. That's also because of the background. We have dealt with laws before and it suddenly appeared that five parties supported all the amendments that were there. The cabinet has been very clear in its response. These displacement effects can vary considerably from one sector to another. It is therefore wise to leave this chain clause specifically to employers and employees in those sectors. This amendment removes that. That is what the PvdA Group, if it is so clearly concerned about this displacement, should be critical of, shouldn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u28	But it can and we don't know. We do not know where this displacement is going to take place and whether this displacement is going to take place. We're worried about that. Let's take a look at that. I would also like to make a few proposals to take a more critical look at them. So I'm very curious. I have also asked a number of questions about the type of jobs involved. Is it just people who want to work nicely in a sector with work for higher education? Or is it about people who really need that money because they have a hole? There are still no figures on this either.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u29	Before going to Mr Klein, I would ask Mrs Vermeij whether she expects the amendment she wants to submit to be available before the Minister's second term. Then he can take it with him.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u30	I'm sure there will be.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u31	Thank you. Then we'll go to Mr. Klein first. Or do you have a point of order, Mr Dijkgraaf?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u32	I have a point of order. The Schouten/Vermeij amendment to item No. 12 just filed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u33	That's excellent. Then we'll see him come right by.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u34	The scope of the amendment is already clear. Mrs Vermeij doesn't know about the displacement debate. I also think it is a very strange discussion, because it is an anxiety debate. It is a discussion about something that may happen, but which is not based on the strength of the people themselves. Do they want to continue working after the age of AOW? If we all don't know and we all want to evaluate it, why shouldn't we just stick to what the bill says, those six weeks? Then we'll evaluate afterwards. It is all about possible short-term problems. In the long term, there is no question of displacement effects. That's what the CBP says. Isn't it much better to say: we're going to have six weeks, then we won't have to give you any trouble at all in those thirteen weeks?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u35	What we do know from the models is that the displacement is taking place in the short term. I find that undesirable, and my party finds that undesirable. In fact, I and my colleagues in the Labour Party have always tabled motions on this subject. That is what Mr Ulenbelt is going to ask me later. This is precisely where we are putting forward an amendment to prevent and counter this in the short term. But I agree with you: in two years' time it would be nice to see what it is really about. What groups are involved, is there displacement or not at all and have we had the wrong discussion today? That last one would be nice, but we sure as hell don't. There are a lot of parties that think it is going to happen and we should take it seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u36	That's an a-contrario reasoning. The CBP says there's a short-term chance, but not in the long term. We just don't know what the effects will be. Mr Van Weyenberg has also made a number of valid comments. He made the comparison with the 1950s, when women entered the labour market. I think that is logical and right. Then it makes more sense, because now we want to have some kind of lock on the door, a barrier, to hold on to those six weeks? Then we look at this evaluation afterwards and decide if these thirteen weeks are relevant. That is better than the fear politics of the Labour Party, which finds it all scary. Let's give it a chance by holding on to those six weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u37	I'm trying to improve this bill based on the data I have now. This shows that the Central Planning Office says that there will be displacement in the short term and not in the long term. One of the major points why it is then is the payment of wages in the event of illness. For a person aged 62 or 63, the employer pays a wage for two years if he becomes ill. If he hires someone who has already reached the age of AOW, this bill will cover six weeks. That's a huge difference. The proposal I am making together with my colleague from the Christian Union is to look at that deadline and at least extend it for the first few years, precisely to counter the displacement which the CPB points out.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u38	Mrs Vermeij's naivety about repression is actually shocking. Let's say I'm an employer and I have a 55-year-old job interview with a 66-year-old. The 66-year-old is for me, if I have to pay him a modal wage, $10,000 a year cheaper. Who do you think's gonna get that job if they're both healthy?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u39	I have no idea, Mr Ulenbelt, because I have no idea what function it is. As an employer myself, I think I'd like to employ someone for a long time. That's better for the company, that works loyalty in the hand and that's more productive. So I would definitely look seriously at that 55-year-old. But this bill, and you have been able to read it correctly, makes working AOWs more expensive, because this bill regulates that they get a contract of employment and because this bill also regulates a number of things that are very good for working people under the AOW age. In the event of a dismissal, the AOW will have to get out first, because they already have an income. We're also gonna arrange the pay-as-you-go. So this bill regulates a number of things that I've been hearing about for a long time. This legislative proposal also regulates what we all found ten years ago and what came into an opinion which was signed by both employers and employees.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u40	But Mrs Vermeij can't brush away that the wage difference with a modal income is €10,000 per year. Let's look at the supermarkets, where young people work under minimum wage. In the supermarkets you can almost only see young people on revolving door contracts. What the Labour Party is telling us now is that we are going to do exactly the same with the elderly. I think it's really amazing. The trade unions, for which you often claim to be present, reject it. You do not know if there is displacement and so you step into a deep hole, when you do not have to look up that hole if you treat them equally.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u41	Would you like to speak through the chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u42	I notice that the SP is trying to improve this bill. I thought that, at least when I woke up this morning, was a step in the right direction. I thought: hey, the SP is constructive in thinking about opportunities for people who really want to work. By the way, I invite Mr Ulenbelt to come to my supermarket too, because fortunately young and old work very well together. This bill makes working AOW workers more expensive, especially in relation to younger jobseekers. And that's a good thing. I'm rounding up. This brings my group to the conclusion that now, ten years after the opinion of the SER from 2005/2006, we are making it possible to continue working after the AOW age. Again, we don't let it go and we keep looking critically. We evaluate carefully and carefully whether displacement is taking place. Finally, I would like to mention one quote from the opinion in question: however, reaching retirement age does not have to mean the end of working life; the Council recommends that consideration be given to whether, in practice, less restraint can be exercised in dealing with working after the end of the employment contract and retirement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u43	Mr. Chairman. This law should give greater flexibility and that should be very positive for people from a liberally binding perspective. As we know, I advocate that people be given the opportunity to give their own content to their lives, so not supply-driven from the government. People should be able to decide for themselves what kind of work they do, and how often and when they work. It is not appropriate at this time that because of the fact that someone reaches a certain age he automatically receives a resignation letter. Does the law give sufficient flexibility? The Minister writes in the note following the report that it is only the intention to facilitate this. Unfortunately, the division between not the AOW-age and the AOW-age continues to exist. If we continue reading, this is also reflected in a number of things. The Government considers that the possibility of termination of a contract of employment because of the retirement age should be maintained. The regulation of the pension structure after the AOW-age is left to the social partners. So this law doesn't say anything about that. The risk of displacement for the younger worker is considered more important than the flexibility for the older worker. Those are missed opportunities. The automatic termination of the contract of employment on the basis of age is illogical. The note on the report refers to a natural moment. What is there of course to an ever shifting legal limit for receiving the AOW benefit? Research by the ANBO shows that 24% of people want to continue working and do so for financial reasons. This may even be necessary for people with incomplete AOW. It is very harsh when they experience an income gap because of their age. For these people it should be possible to convert their permanent employment at least into a temporary employment. Even a transition fee at termination would be in place for these people in the event of a transition to retirement. I am considering tabling an amendment on this subject, depending on the answer given by the Minister in the first term. The missed opportunity for pension building to the AOW age is that the Minister does nothing at all. The social partners can do it; a nice and easy solution from the minister. With the letter of 16 February 2015 on the flexibility of the AOW, the cabinet is sending the Dutch parliament another missed opportunity to increase flexibility for the older employee. My motion of December 2013 adopted by the Lower House for the flexibilisation of the AOW is thrown into the trash by the State Secretary. Those are all missed opportunities for real flexibility. Therefore, there is hardly any question of a facilitator government. In fact, everyone should adapt to the whims of the cabinet when it comes to the AOW. Let me give you another example. Due to the increase in the AOW-right age, many people have a pension gap, which they have not in all cases been able to anticipate and anticipate. Only for the lower incomes there is a bridge. Modal incomes have to figure it out for themselves, according to this cabinet. In order to provide a solution for this hobby of the cabinet, I have proposed the introduction of a flexible AOW. This makes it possible to record AOW earlier and to lower the height of the AOW or not. On balance, the pensioner receives about the same without experiencing a pension gap. He can also work quietly if he wants to. In her letter, the Secretary of State says no to this budget-neutral solution and ignores the idea. It would be too complicated to enter. Where pension funds often already know the concept of flexibility, it is too difficult for this rigid cabinet. We live in 2015. The world is flexible. The trend is that people themselves take control of their own lives and shape their own lives. You can see that all around you. People work part-time, do volunteering, become zzp'er and choose to work longer or stop earlier. It is no longer the time for the government to choose what people are going to do, when they are going to do it and when they are going to retire. The Secretary of State, and thus the Cabinet, insists on the idea that the AOW should be a "one size fits all" concept. In addition to being complicated, the Secretary of State has another argument as to why a flexible AOW is not possible. The bottom line is that earlier retirement would reduce the employment rate. However, the Minister writes in the note following the report that the cabinet does not want to continue working any longer, especially as this could lead to displacement. Can the Minister explain exactly what the government's fear is? Is the cabinet afraid of repression, as the Minister states, or is it afraid of a reduction in employment rates, as the Secretary of State states? I don't get it anymore. Perhaps we can coordinate the following. If we look at the various possibilities of creating more flexibility for older workers, I am talking about greater flexibility in this law and about flexibility in the AOW pension scheme, it can be concluded that there is neither displacement nor a reduction in employment participation. In addition, if the cabinet gets right and the economy gets back on track, the cake gets bigger and more people can eat with it. How does the Minister view this? Would it be a good idea to look at the various measures for increasing the flexibility of the AOW and working after the AOW age in full and to put an overall question to the CPB about this rather than the fragmented way of working at this time? I'd like to get a response from the Minister. I want to help the minister by turning it around in a positive way. Flexibilisation of the AOW makes it possible for people to stop earlier; that is good to prevent displacement. More flexibility makes it possible for people to work longer, and this is good for the employment rate. It's just how you look at it. The glass is half full or it's half empty. Unfortunately, the Minister now sees the glass as half empty. The result of linking age to this kind of provision is that all kinds of expensive situations are being rigged to keep people at work up to that age. At the same time, people who have reached that age are suddenly forced to stop working. I find that strange, but the cabinet deliberately chooses to maintain this strange policy with arguments that contradict itself. Can the Minister explain why he is holding on so rigidly to that age when it seems much more logical to look at what people can do and what added value they have for our society? Shouldn't much more emphasis be placed on the positive effects on the labour market of experience, knowledge and loyalty that can be maintained if people work after the AOW age? Wouldn't it be much better for the Cabinet to take on a facilitating role rather than imposing measures linked to age? If so, how will we see this in the coming period? It will be clear that this bill does not go far enough in a liberal perspective. Working after the AOW age is now regarded as an exception while liberal politics chooses independent people who themselves give involved content to their lives. However, there is still a glimmer of light in this proposal from a free-minded point of view. On page 3 of the note following the report, the possibility of working after the AOW age while maintaining the AOW as a basic income is mentioned. That is exactly the liberal political direction that my party wants to take: having a basic income, the ability to develop your talents freely and to continue to use your own qualities and abilities in a way that, in your opinion, can make a good contribution to society. There are real opportunities and the opportunity to redeem those opportunities.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u44	Madam President. We support the aim of this law, namely to increase the chances of employment for older people. We see working as a blessing. This, of course, does not apply to everyone. There are people who are happy to retire. They have had it or they are worn out. However, there are also people who do want and can continue. They want to earn some extra money, raise their pension or just keep on playing ball in society, because working is also good in that respect. They can do so in themselves, but very often via a broadcast or zzp-structure. This law removes a number of obstacles to keeping people at that age not only through azzp construction or a temporary agency structure at work, but also more likely to have a contract of employment. That is a good thing. The counter-argument, I hear all kinds of colleagues talking about it, is, of course, whether there will be any displacement. That's my question, too. I would like to ask the Minister if he can make a comparison between the cases presented here, for example between someone aged 55 or 60 who is applying and someone aged 65 or 67 who is applying. There are, of course, all kinds of differences between them, such as the mobility bonus, which does apply to people who have not yet reached the AOW age. That's a big advantage for that category. We expect a lot of that, too. In practice, it can be seen to work. We are also pleased that the Minister has agreed to our proposal for a better payment. We'll get a new bill for that. To be honest, that was an important argument for us to take a positive look at this law. People who do not yet receive an AOW must, of course, have a sufficient chance at work, and this law must not diminish those opportunities. Can the Minister go into that again and make a comparison between these two cases? Hopefully he will show that this displacement is not happening. Research shows that the payment of wages is an important argument in this respect. For people without AOW there is a very long time: two years. The proposal is very short: six weeks. We thought that difference was very big. We were therefore pleased with the Schouten/Vermeij amendment, which, at least for the next two years, will bring it to 13 weeks. The amendment makes the question whether it will go back to six weeks or remain at thirteen weeks depending on whether an evaluation shows that this displacement is taking place or not. If there's no displacement, maybe it could go down again. In the event of displacement, it should remain at those 13 weeks. We support that amendment. However, a rapid evaluation is needed. We have the amendment in respect of item No. 11 in order to carry out that assessment of the objectives of the law. I hope the Minister will be able to respond positively.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u45	I know Mr Dijkgraaf as a very logical and well-thinking person and Member of Parliament, but I do not quite follow his reasoning. The Schouten/Vermeij amendment says that we are going to go to thirteen weeks to be able to reduce displacement further, because the fear is that there will be. After that evaluation, hopefully it will prove that there will be less displacement. At that point, you can say, "We're going to six weeks." But why would we go to six weeks? Because then we would have to look at the effects of that. Isn't it much more logical to say that as it is in the bill, we go to six weeks and evaluate it? If that displacement turns out to be there, then it has to go up. So it makes more sense to keep it low first and see if those effects occur, and then to increase it to counteract those effects. This measure is designed to counter short-term effects. If we evaluate that, you'll get a positive result from the cuckoo. That evaluation won't help us say we're going down.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u46	That is the question of what risk you want to take. Do you want to take the risk of displacement and then scale it up to, for example, thirteen weeks? Or do you say no, we want to prevent this displacement at all times. The Central Planning Bureau says very clearly that it will not be that bad in the long term. The Central Planning Bureau is not bad in the long term, because then everything will go to balance, but it is now about the short term. Mr Ulenbelt has also said the necessary thing about this. 650,000 unemployed are violent. We want people who are primarily dependent on work to have the greatest chance, so we choose the careful route.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u47	It may be difficult for Mr Dijkgraaf with his SGP background, but we have given women the opportunity to work extra. That has not led to displacement. It would therefore be very illogical to do the legislation out of fear of repression. It is better to say: we do the law like this, we evaluate it, and if bad effects occur, we repair it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u48	That's not difficult for a SGP man at all, because our women work very hard. Mr Klein should take a look at the figures. 70% of our women work just as well. That's just in line with the average of society. Mr Klein is holding the debate 20 years ago. I note that Mr Klein is ignoring the short-term concerns of the Central Planning Office. They're hard on paper. Fortunately, I also see colleagues who not only stand up for the 67-plussers, as Mr Klein apparently does, but also look at the category 50-plussers. We need to look at all the categories. I see that Mr Klein's potential is very narrowed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u49	Mr Klein, we've done all the interruptions in two. I am not giving you the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u50	This is a personal thing. It is now about the fact that I would reduce the prospects. We're not gonna shrink Klein.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u51	No, Mr Klein, we're not gonna do this. Let's keep it small. We've done all the interruptions in two. I think there was a colleague of yours who also wanted to ask a question. If that is not the case, Mr Dijkgraaf may continue his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u52	The difference between payment of wages for six weeks or two years, as is the case for a normal employee, is not small.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u53	Mr. Chairman, a little one?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u54	Nice try.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u55	We shouldn't make these small differences too big. The great minister, as I hear him say himself, is six weeks. In the amendment, the deadline goes from six to thirteen weeks. What is of course important for the coming period is what we are going to do with the payment of wages for ordinary workers. There's a whole route for that. Of course, it does matter whether we have thirteen weeks versus two years, or whether the two-year period may go down. Mr Ulenbelt has put forward proposals for this. We, too, have always said that the risk to employers is too great at the moment and that it should be reduced. It is one of the biggest obstacles for employers to employing people. Displacement will be reduced if a different scheme is introduced for the generic worker. I've already talked about the six and thirteen weeks. I have already announced the amendment on the evaluation clause. That's in the meantime. I have one more point. That's about cashing out the premium discount. We welcome the fact that a bill announced by the Minister will also make it possible for small employers. We hear that the current cash transfer is a problem when people go to work through a learning firm of the municipality. We are getting signals that the Tax Administration does not grant the bonus discount or mobility bonus. I do not think that this could have been the intention of the legislation. I don't know exactly where the bump is either. I'll put that to the Minister as a question. It would be a pity if this route, which is very good for a certain category of people in itself, is hampered and they do not receive the €7,000 mobility bonus. We are positive, especially if the amendments I mentioned make it. I personally experienced it with my father-in-law. He started his career as a truck driver once. At some point he was director of an SME. He retired. At first to our surprise, but very much to his pleasure and also to our pleasure, because if he is having a good time, we also have it to our liking, he just drives back on the truck. He says: this is actually the best time in my career, because that pressure I experienced is finished, and I enjoy how I started again. However, you can see exactly the discussion with such a transporter coming back. Does this have to be arranged through azzp-structure, through a temporary agency, or can someone like that also be employed? We hope and assume that this bill will help in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u56	Mr. Chairman. Rutte II's policy, with all these tax increases, has reduced our economy and prosperity. This has led to a huge increase in unemployment. The cabinet has no plan to actually reduce that unemployment. The ABN AMRO report The quantitative development of the Dutch labour force shows that, due to a higher AOW age, labour supply remains higher than demand. It is therefore still difficult for older people to get a job until 2023. The CBS also indicated this in January: older people working longer lead to an increase in unemployment. The PVV wants to work longer after your 65th not hinder, but only if this is a voluntary choice and if it does not lead to involuntary unemployment of other people. Some people would like to work longer and that is of course fine, but a lot of people have a hard job, less health or just want to do something and they would like to stop working sooner. This is also what the PVV wants to make possible. That is why we supported the Klein motion calling on the government to examine a flexible AOW age. Given the bad situation in the labour market, where so many people are unemployed and young people can hardly get a job anymore, one would expect the government to promote early retirement, just as in the 1980s the Vulnerable Schemes were introduced to make way for the elderly for young people. The cabinet does the opposite: it forces everyone to continue working longer with a huge rise in unemployment. This irresponsiblely rapid increase in the age of AOW leads to major problems for many people. Trust in our pension system has therefore fallen to a minimum. I have also noticed that a lot of people think that retirement age will rise to 67, but that is absolutely not true, because it is much worse. On the website of the Sociale Verzekeringsbank you can find the expected retirement age using your date of birth and that is really scary. Especially the young people in the bleachers should do that. Let me give you an example: for people born just like me in 1969, the AOW age is likely to be 69. 25-year-olds are expected to be at 71.5. Think about it: not 65, but 71.5! That's almost unimaginable. I hear Mrs Vermeij say that she loves it, but not all people think that way and many people can't work that long at all. People's awareness that retirement already looks so bad is really still below the mark. Mr Van Weyenberg once said something about this: more information should be given on this. The PVV is not against volunteering any longer after your 65th. It is also good to make this simpler and fairer, as this legislative proposal also aims to do, but then it should be possible to stop working sooner, because it will keep the labour market in a better balance. This is a one-sided legislative proposal and we are seeing the problems of labour market displacement increase. This bill can therefore lead to additional unemployment for both young people and the elderly, which is strange for a government that uses "work, work, work" as a slogan. We supported the Klein motion. It calls for an investigation into flexible AOW. We want that motion to be carried out. The bottom line is that this bill does indeed make it easier to work longer and cheaper for employers to keep older people in employment. That is a good thing in itself, but I think the problem of labour displacement is very big. I therefore hope for a very good response from the government. Moreover, I have also seen good amendments to counteract this effect. That depends on the support of the PVV, because, quite frankly, we still have a little doubt whether or not this is a good legislative proposal. We would have preferred to have seen that you could stop more flexibly, both later and earlier, because then you would not have these problems. I am very curious about the Minister's answers, which I need in order to indicate in the second term whether or not we support this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u57	Mr. Chairman. The aim of this bill is to make working after the age of AOW easier by removing barriers. In itself, this is an excellent goal which has been advocated by various spokesmen from various parties in recent years. My party's former spokesman for finance, Frans de Nerée, has regularly talked about removing barriers and making it easier for the elderly to remain active in the labour market. At the same time, everyone understands that it has already been introduced by various groups today to prevent 50-plussers from being pushed into the labour market. It is a category on which we have had a lot of debates, because it seems to have a weak position on the labour market. There is the classic insider-outsider problem: because they no longer have a job, they come in very difficult. It must be avoided that this bill, which I consider to be a good idea in itself, has the effect of doing so. It should be noted that this is also taken into account in the legislative proposal. The note following the report also pays close attention to this and explains why, for example, the Law applies minimum wage as a lower limit. For me, therefore, this legislative proposal is primarily a matter of balance. Therefore, the discussion for my group is not whether this is a very bad bill, as the SP says, or a fantastic bill, as D66 says, but whether the measure is enough to remove the barriers and not to get repression. The measure will be dealt with first in the six-week period. I have already indicated that I am sensitive to the argument that my colleagues Schouten and Vermeij have in their amendment to go to thirteen weeks. For balance, for measure, that could be a good thing. On the other hand, the Minister's written answer to the question as to why these six weeks were chosen is solid. I am therefore very interested in the Minister's response to this amendment. As I have already indicated, I am sensitive to that. A related, somewhat smaller question, but a question on which I was somewhat confused after reading the note on the report, is the government's argument regarding the Work Time Adjustment Act. This is seen in the answer as an additional reason why things are chosen. By excluding AOW's from this law, there would be less displacement. However, we are talking about something that employers are not very enthusiastic about and which they will lobby rather than for. If you exclude a category from something that employers are not so enthusiastic about, I would say that this is an argument why you are removing barriers to getting started for this group. However, the cabinet chooses exactly the opposite: this will not lead to displacement, just as with the minimum wage. I do not quite follow this argument so far. That will probably be up to me, but I would like to have a more detailed explanation of that in the reply. We have also spoken several times in this debate about the fact that people after the age of AOW are often at work at the moment throughzzp contracts or temporary employment contracts. In the written reply, the Cabinet clearly describes how the combination of this bill and the previous measures in the Work and Security Act make it easier to pass a contract. So that does not mean a hard limit, but removing barriers to keeping someone in service, so that one does not necessarily have to go into azzp contract or a temporary employment contract. The cabinet even writes that this can lead to an employer being more inclined to hire a 60-pluser, because there may be a horizon that lies further, without the risks involved. Does the Minister expect, if this bill is adopted, that more AOWs will really remain active on the labour market with the permanent contract of employment they had up to their AOW age? Or will you still see that they lose that permanent job and still get an annual contract or a temporary contract? If the situation is expected to remain the same, what barriers are there? What could be the reasons for that? In my interruptions to the contributions of D66 and the PvdA, I have already expressed my doubts about the votes that are going on, and the amendment tabled by the VVD and D66, in order not to leave the chain clause to the collective bargaining table, but to lay down a number of things in the law. I found the cabinet's counter-arguments in the written reply rather strong, namely that we are all concerned about repression, but that this can be quite different sectorally. Let us leave it to the collective bargaining table and the employers and employees to make the decision or in that particular sector that risk is so great. My fear is that, with an amendment to remove this decision from the polder and from the sectors where the risk of displacement may be greatest, and to draw it to The Hague, a tendency which we have very often already experienced, as Mr Dijkgraaf rightly suggests, will soon show that there are greater problems in certain sectors than in other sectors. I would therefore like a response from the Minister to this amendment, also in view of the Minister's previous reply in the written round.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u58	Mr Heerma has a very well-balanced story, which, in my opinion, will eventually lead to support for this bill. I do have a question about the fear of displacement. Right now you can just take them all as zzp'ers; then you don't have any problems at all. Mr Heerma is now asking a number of concerns, but the reality is that we are making offering a temporary or fixed contract much more attractive. The alternative is that only people are accepted as zzp'ers. In that sense, therefore, I do not share Mr Heerma's concern to that extent.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u59	The fact that Mr Van Weyenberg does not share this concern was already clear from his first-term contribution and from the fact that he is tabling this amendment. I am glad that Mr Van Weyenberg also sees that I am making a balanced contribution on behalf of my group. For me, this bill is also a matter of balance: how do you remove barriers without getting repression? I think we can do that. In my view, there is a legislative proposal which has a good balance to a large extent, but the collective agreement table for the sectoral differences that may exist in the risk of displacement is an important emergency valve in the legislative proposal. That emergency valve will be removed with this amendment. I don't quite understand the argument for that. The argument could be that we would then still have another way of displacement, but that there could be another way of displacement does not mean that we should facilitate it with this amendment. I'd say that's a weird explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u60	In my view, the argument is correct that by offering more opportunities for temporary contracts, a better alternative to self-employment will arise. I have heard Mr Heerma argue in the treatment of the Work and Security Act in all kinds of forms that we should be careful that, by limiting temporary contracts, we should ensure that these contracts did not end up there at all. That's what's going on here, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u61	Mr Van Weyenberg is challenging me to go back to this whole legal process. I would also like to do that, because I have real concerns about bringing it back to the two-year period, on which Mr Van Weyenberg himself was critical. However, I do not think that this debate is the case. The discussion here is that there may be an extension, exactly along the lines we were concerned about the Work and Security Act. It is said that sectoral differences can occur, with no displacement in one sector and in the other. This is something for which employers and employees can have a very good eye at the collective bargaining table. But unfortunately, we take care of it from The Hague and do not think it is important for the sectors to be able to look at it. We do it with one pen stroke from The Hague. I have doubts about that. The cabinet also replied very clearly in the written round. I am therefore very curious to see how the Minister views this amendment. Finally. What's the cabinet gonna do to keep the finger on the wrist? Mrs Vermeij already had a number of specific questions on this subject, and I would like to endorse them. I would like to add the following question: if it appears that there is repression, especially if it occurs in certain sectors, what can the cabinet do? And what is it going to do, especially in view of the amendment that Mr Van Weyenberg and I have just had an interrupting debate?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u62	Mr. Chairman. The objective of this bill is to be welcomed at 50PLUS: to remove obstacles to work after the age of AOW. Who doesn't want that? Working after the age of AOW is mainly referred to in the documents as "fun for those concerned." It is good for social contacts, increases self-esteem and increases vitality. Financial motives would be the main reason for a very limited group, less than 10% of pensioners, to continue working longer. If all this is so, then I would like to start by asking how necessary it is to continue working after retirement under the current difficult labour market conditions. According to the Minister, stimulation is not the aim, but it is the result of this legislative proposal. Over the next few years, more than half of the population will be over 50 years old. The employment rate of the 50-plussers who have not yet retired will increase in the coming years. According to last week's CPB estimate, the increase in employment this year and next year is just enough to absorb the already rising labour supply. Under these circumstances, I do not think it is necessary or even desirable to encourage further work after retirement with new measures in addition to those already taken. People after retirement age are already relatively cheap labour. Employers do not have to pay employee insurance contributions. In the note to the report, the government has devoted a small 30 pages to the question of the possible displacement of older non-retirement workers and job-seekers by this bill. 50PLUS is still not convinced. The CPB concludes that displacement is not at issue in the longer term and will be limited in the shorter term. The latter is 50PLUS too much. I do not have to explain to the Minister how difficult 45-plussers are already in the labour market and how small is the chance that they will still be working from the WW or the assistance? This group should be protected from undue pressure on the difficult labour market situation. What is the Minister going to do to prevent displacement in the short term? How is this being followed? Should this bill be adopted, is the Minister prepared to send regular reports to the Chamber on short-term and longer-term displacement? I would like to explain why I do not think this proposal is necessary and desirable at the moment. Unfortunately, employers are not waiting for an even greater supply of 45-plussers on the labour market. European research shows that more and more Dutch entrepreneurs are concerned about the increasingly ageing workforce. 50PLUS believes that the government should focus on combating youth and elderly unemployment. First of all, we need to get people with a bridged distance from the labour market to work, increase the gross employment rate of 65-minners and increase the level of training and training of sitting staff. What problem does the government intend to solve with this bill? Longer working in general is mainly driven by the threat of labour shortages. And yes, it is true that the Dutch population will grow to 2040 and that the potential labour force as a whole will fall sharply. However, for the time being there will be no shortage of labour. Unemployment is high and will continue to be high next year according to the CBS. Between 2013 and 2023, as a result of the increase in the AOW age, a strong growth in the potential labour force is expected from 65 to 68 year olds: from 245,000 to 620,000 people. That is a growth of no less than 4.2%. Even in the most pessimistic scenario, the labour force will fall by less than 0.5% by 2020. What does the Minister think of the idea of waiting for this bill to be introduced until the labour market is tight? All our efforts must now focus on the cashing-in of the long-growing potential workforce of 65- to 68-year-olds, which is therefore not yet entitled to a pension. 50PLUS believes that this bill only makes this difficult, as witnessed by the high, especially long-term, unemployment rate of people over 45 years of age. The outflow to work is frighteningly low. Much of it ends up in the welfare system. That's not good, not for the treasury either. Last month CBS announced that the reduction in unemployment is almost entirely beneficial to 45 miners. That is a very worrying signal. It is therefore very important, and continues to be, first of all to place structural emphasis on the participation of older non-AOW beneficiaries in the labour market. 50PLUS therefore continues to advocate an extension of the Action Plan 50PlusWorks. Our preliminary conclusion is that this bill is not necessary and is certainly premature. Moreover, we do not consider the quantification of the employment effects of this proposal to be sufficient. I would like to hear an extensive response from the Minister. A minority of pensioners work for financial reasons. A number of pensioners are forced to work. We must not lose sight of them. 50PLUS has questions about the proposed lighter working regime for pensioners. We do not think that reducing the legal number of weeks in the case of illness from 104 to 6 is in any proportion. It is also not good from the point of view of displacement for non-AOWs. An income decline after six weeks is too abrupt according to 50PLUS. A shorter period may also be at the expense of preventing and preventing incapacity for work. I had an amendment in preparation this morning to take it to 26 weeks. I think that's pretty high. I now hear proposals of 13 weeks and six weeks. I am still working on an amendment and I will let it depend on what the Minister is about to reply. 50PLUS is not yet convinced of the argument about the Equal Treatment Act. The Government considers that "the measures in so far as they distinguish on the basis of age serve a legitimate purpose, are necessary and do not go beyond what is appropriate to achieve the legitimate objective." I am particularly concerned about the words 'needed' and 'legitimate', particularly in view of the labour market conditions and the labour market prospects I have just outlined. "Necessary" is something that is inevitable, something that there is no discussion about. It has been found that this is not the case. "Legitimacy" means there's a good reason for something. However, there are just as many reasons why this rather sympathetic bill has not yet been implemented. I have just mentioned these reasons and I would like to hear a response from the Minister. There's something else 50PLUS noticed. Like the Action Plan 50PlusWorks, measures are actually only taken in favour of the employer. In other words, it is financial incentives that should be favourable to the employer to employ an older employee. We have said it before: that is only one side of the matter. The other side is that there are prejudices towards older workers. The Minister himself has often said that there are indeed. They are absurd arguments, but they must be combated. Older people would be too expensive, too slow and too quickly ill. Is the Minister doing something about these prejudices? Finally, 50PLUS asks to address the envisaged date of implementation of the Act, 1 January 2016. Then only part of the law can be implemented. The UWV states that it will not be ready until 1 July 2016 for automated payment of sickness benefit. The UWV has also made a reservation on the feasibility. In the department of VWS, they can tell the minister everything about the over-hasty introduction of laws. That is something we must avoid in the future. Does the Minister agree with 50PLUS? After all, care is always about speed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u63	Mr. Chairman. I can tell you that I won't need 15 minutes. Maybe it'll save you lunch break. A small 100,000 people are currently working on after reaching the AOW-right age. We have read that these people do this mainly for social reasons: they like to continue working and they want to use the talents. I think it's fine if you can. But we are seeing at the moment that many of these workers end up in constructions such as zzp'er or temp, where there is hardly any real serious employment. At the moment when the AOW-right person who works is no longer needed, it is immediately ready. When he gets sick, he's hardly entitled to anything. Whether the WML is paid is only the question. On the one hand you can say that you don't have to, because this person already has AOW and probably also has a pension. On the other hand, however, the Christian Union is still in the department "if you work, you are entitled to good working conditions, like any Dutchman, no matter how old you are." In this respect, I see a number of improvements in this legislative proposal. It is a good thing that we make the WML mandatory for people over the age of AOW, and it is good that a kind of framework is now being outlined in which it becomes clear what the rights of the employee and the obligations of the employer are, also in the hope that there will be less of these loose jobs: less of them, less of them, less of them. But the big question is, of course, whether this bill does not lead to displacement. We discussed this serious question during the preparation. Because, on the one hand, we arrange a number of things better for people who continue to work after the age of AOW, but on the other hand, the situation may arise that it is quite attractive for an employer to employ the older worker, rather than someone younger. We simply must not deny that the unemployment rate in the 60 to 67-year-olds is quite high. That is the balance we have made in this legislative proposal. How's it actually gonna unpack? On the one hand, the CPB says: in the short term limited, in the long term no displacement. But on the other hand, it's good to build in more safeguards. The first point, which is very important to us, is the payment of wages in the event of illness. We now hear from many employers that this two-year pay-as-you-go pay in the event of illness of workers under the age of AOW is a bottleneck to take on permanent employment. In this bill, it's going to be six weeks. That's a big difference, isn't it? I know the SER's been doing research into how to deal with that pay-as-you-go payment in case of illness. But I think we should build in a slightly higher week's demand. In an amendment that we drafted together with Mr Vermeij, we laid down this requirement at 13 weeks, in accordance with what is stated in the Gate Guard Act on the concept of 'disease'. As far as we are concerned, our amendment stipulates that this should now be used as a standard, but we also insist that the effects of this law should be evaluated quickly. I have just seen an amendment by Mr Dijkgraaf coming in, but also an amended amendment. One amendment refers to three years and the other to two years. I assume that this is an evaluation for the first two years, but I see Mr Dijkgraaf approaching, perhaps to explain this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u64	The amendment that was initially tabled in respect of item No. 11, was an older version that was also floating around on our PC. That wasn't the intended version. The version in part No. 13 is the latest version we've come up with. I do not rule out the fact that we are now going to come up with new things, but this is what we are trying to do at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u65	In my view, 'Rondenworfde' is an older version of the 'rounding' conjunction, but the amendment to part No. 11 has indeed been replaced by the amendment to item No. 13, which has just been distributed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u66	I think it would be a good thing if Mr Dijkgraaf did some screenshots of that old version of 'yes', but let me start from the new version of the amendment. It states that an evaluation should be carried out in the first two years. That seems to me to be quite right, precisely because we really need to be clear about how this law is going to work. We should not look at this in the long term; we simply need to determine it quickly. After all, there is a dilemma. On the one hand, you want better and clearer frameworks for people who work through, with ditto rights. On the other hand, there is the question of displacement. We need to find a balance between them. I hope that the evaluation will clarify this. I can therefore say in advance that we fully support the amendment. The amendment I tabled together with Mrs Vermeij refers to that evaluation amendment. We want to determine whether we can reduce those weeks for payment of wages in case of sickness if the evaluation shows that this is possible. We do not know that yet, but as far as we are concerned, this will then be submitted to the Chamber, so that the Chamber will be involved in what will eventually be included in the Royal Decree.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u67	I find this an interesting amendment. I understand it's really meant to be a bridging measure. There will be an evaluation for the first two years of the year, that is Mr Dijkgraaf's amendment, and then the bridging measure will disappear and go to six weeks unless it turns out that there would be repression. Did I get that correctly?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u68	Mr Van Weyenberg understood that correctly, but it also states that the Royal Decree is to be submitted to the Chamber. At that time, therefore, we also have an independent assessment. Eventually, of course, it will also take into account what comes out of the evaluation. We don't know yet, but hopefully we will. This whole discussion is, of course, also in a broader context, namely how we deal with the flexibility of our AOW. I am looking at Mrs Vermeij, because at that time I was not yet a Member of Parliament during the Balkenende IV cabinet, but there were quite a few hours spent on a bill involving the PvdA, the CDA and my party. The aim was to see if we could move towards a more flexible AOW: a bit backwards or a bit forward if people consider it necessary in the context of heavy professions; we wanted to leave the choice of what is a heavy occupation and what is not, not to the politics but to those involved themselves. We wanted to introduce flexibility into that. That bill was never tabled and, in my opinion, died silently; it may have been filed, but at least it has never been dealt with here. I would advise the Minister to get rid of that old bill again, because I think it contains interesting ideas on how to deal with the hardness of the AOW age and also with the freedom of choice that you might be able to give to employees. I have also seen Mr Klein's motion. Of course, it also sees much more on the flexibilisation of the AOW. I also realize that this minister is not about the AOW. Don't you think he'd like to take a look around? What's his vision on that? We are already making retirement age much more flexible, but the AOW age remains very hard on one date. Could there be more flexibility in this as far as he is concerned? Is it perhaps an idea to work that out a little further? That is, of course, already being asked in the Klein motion. I am curious to hear the Minister's opinion on our amendments and Mr Dijkgraaf's amendment, which we also consider to be very important. Depending on that, we will make our assessment. However, we see advantages if we also try to mitigate the disadvantages of this legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u69	Mrs Schouten sees shortening the payment of wages as a source of possible displacement. She's making proposals for that. Why would we shorten them only for people with AOW who work? Why not for all Dutch? After all, employers elsewhere also indicate that two years of pay-as-you-go is an obstacle to taking on permanent employment. Surely it would be much wiser to wait until we had that discussion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u70	I believe that two questions have been put by Mr Ulenbelt. The first is why Mrs Schouten is not proposing this for the rest of the Netherlands. Research is now under way. In my opinion, this is not about the thirteen weeks but about the one-year period. We have asked for this, because we do hear that this is a threshold for many employers to take on permanent employment. That is what we must try to limit. However, I am also a little dependent on the results of that investigation. This is now the subject of a concrete legislative proposal asking us to take a six-week period. I don't know what's coming out of the investigation. It's now two years, for the other group it's going to be six weeks. If you can do something about this displacement, the first step you should take now is to go to those thirteen weeks for the group of workers over the AOW-right age. I don't think those two things necessarily have to be all tied together. I wonder if Mr Ulenbelt is going to make a proposal for a six-week payment for the whole of the Netherlands in the case of sickness. I would find it special if that were to happen. I await the discussion about the rest of the Netherlands first. Here's a bill for this group to settle for six weeks. We propose that this be made 13 weeks in the first instance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u71	But for the Christian Union, too, equal treatment for people who work must be a priority. Then it is much more honest to wait for the discussion about what we do with the payment of wages in case of illness for working Netherlands and to treat people with AOW and without AOW the same? That would be a good idea to postpone the discussion of this bill for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u72	I was thinking, what does Mr Ulenbelt hint about? Otherwise, when I hear the majority, we will pass a six-week law. I do not think that Mr Ulenbelt would prefer that. Apart from that, I began by saying that precisely the target group of workers above the AOW age hardly works in employment. It is often aboutzzp'ers, about temporary agency structures, when we want these people to have more rights, for example, that they are paid a statutory minimum wage and that they are clear about what happens to pay wages when they get sick. Now it's like you're done when your job gets canceled. It can be said to azzp'er: sorry, we don't need you anymore. Then these people aren't entitled to anything. This is typically a case of how you can improve the rights of the group in the current situation. If we move on to two years of pay in case of illness, I'm sure no one who is going to work above the AOW age will get an employment. Then this group has no rights at all. That is the balance we are looking for today. We try to apply them a little better with those thirteen weeks. I hope that this amendment will be adopted; I do not yet have it fully in place. It is an important amendment for us. Then we look at how this is working in the context of displacement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u73	Mr. Chairman. A while ago I played a soccer game in Haarlem with my veteran elftal. I was standing instead of right back, where I normally always stand, at the position of a frontstopper. I was facing a spike that was already in its 60s. I had all afternoon, two times 40 minutes, we played 80 minutes instead of 90 minutes, my hands full with him. That says something about society. You see that people I sometimes estimate...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u74	I think I was kidding unintentionally. Anyway, you can see that people I sometimes estimate as late 50s are early 70s. That might tell me something about my eyes. You can see that older people are actually getting younger. If so, you must also remove the obstacles. For people who are still good in their body and brains and want to work, you need to remove the obstacles that exist now. In this respect, my group supports this proposal. It is good for the people themselves. Some of them want to get to work. Give them that opportunity. It's also good for the economy. You will then have more people who work, and that is good for economic growth. Then the cake we divide together becomes a little bigger again. It also makes the debate in the Chamber a lot easier if we can divide up a bit. A lot has been said about displacement. It is good that the Central Planning Bureau report on displacement is included. That somewhat objects to the discussion. On page 12 it is about, in jargon, the "lump of labor" think error. The CPB writes: "In the public debate, it is regularly assumed that an increase in the number of hours worked by one person is at the expense of another's work." That's not true at all. In the long term, everyone will be included in the labour market and a balance will be restored. It would be good if those kinds of pieces were properly read by my colleagues. It is good that there are a number of safeguards regarding unfair competition. It is a good thing that something has been agreed on paying the minimum legal wage, and that has been agreed upon, and my group understands that if, unfortunately, a round of redundancies is to take place at a company, people who are already over the age of AOW, they are the first to be fired, unfortunately. Finally, this bill, and also its handling, exposes two more issues about our labour market. This one's actually too rigid. Quite a lot of older people work by after reaching retirement age, but often they do so in the form of azzp-construction. The number ofzzp'ers is increasing. We've got almost a million. This is partly another reaction to our rigid labour market. The same applies to the payment of wages in the event of illness. Employers hesitate to employ people, as is also called Chamberwide. They're afraid of the risks they run when someone gets sick. This bill also shows that. It would be good if we could do something about that in the near future. Therefore, we await the calculations of the Central Planning Bureau on pay-as-you-go payment in case of illness.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u75	There is a question for you from Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u76	Mr. Heerma.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u77	Mr. Heerma. Apologies.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u78	Mr Mulder just debunked the fact that he was leaked for 80 minutes by a 60-player. I give him that fortunately he can debate better than football. My question concerns the written round. The VVD asked for the payment of wages to be abolished altogether. That suggestion was made by the VVD to the cabinet in the written round. Now there is an amendment by the Labour Party and the Christian Union to extend the period of pay-as-you-go to thirteen weeks. Do I take it well that, contrary to what the VVD asked in the written round, the VVD intends to support that amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u79	I'll explain. As Mr Van Weyenberg said, this bill actually comes from one of the agreements concluded with the C3, i.e. from the agreements of the five parties, from the pentagon, the five. I know the feelings of the fellow groups. I know they value this. I'm less afraid of displacement myself. However, when we talk about such a bill and when I see that the Christian Union and the SGP have motions on it, we intend to support it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u80	I call Mr Krol. Excuse me, I mean Mr. Klein. I'm gonna make a pot of it. Mr Klein, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u81	Thank you, Mrs Van Miltenburg. Excuse me, I mean Mrs. Van Veldhoven. The note on the report contains another part of the VVD. I thought that was an interesting contribution. It was asked whether the statutory dismissal should not be removed from the contract of employment. There has been an answer to that. What is Mr Mulder's reaction to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u82	Unfortunately, a number of collective agreements have agreed that a kind of automatic dismissal is taking place. Lately, I've found a lot of collective agreements. I am also working on an initiative proposal because I believe that collective agreements are destroying work. I am not, in itself, in favour of such collective agreements. So I am also doing my best to get them out, but that is not so easy either, because then you will have a discussion about the freedom of negotiation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u83	Doesn't that mean you should be encouraging that? "Of course" goes beyond just a collective agreement. Those who do not have a collective agreement often have that in their contract of employment. Such a provision should not be in a contract of employment. You may have to convert the contract into a fixed-term contract for an indefinite period.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u84	That's two questions. On collective agreements, we say, "Don't settle that there." But if you have to include that in the law, that's another question. That is one of the rigidities in the labour market. That contract shall be for an indefinite period. That is the fear of my group. If you strengthen the position of someone with a fixed contract even further, the chances of him getting that fixed contract will be reduced again. I am therefore not in favour of this, because I fear that this will lead to further rigidization of the labour market.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u85	We have come to the end of the Court's contribution in the first term. The Minister has requested a suspension of about ten minutes. I suggest we suspend until 12:10. Then we'll continue with the answer. Let's try to complete that first-term response before lunch break. Then we can prepare for the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u86	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the members of the Chamber for their contributions. Almost everyone has outlined the long history of this bill, but also the fact that times are changing and there is no shortage of labour at present, partly as a result of the increase in the AOW age. Then why is the bill still important to me? First of all, as a society, we can benefit longer from the knowledge, skills and experience of the AOW-plussers. In addition, employees themselves may also need to continue working after the AOW age for all kinds of reasons. This bill makes it easier and more attractive for people who want to work on the basis of an employment contract after reaching the AOW age. The latter contains the meaning of the proposal. At the moment many people who work after reaching the age of AOW work as a zzp'er or as a temp. More than half of the AOW's working iszzp'er, 57%. The fact that there is bread in letting AOW-plussers work through a temporary employment contract can be seen from the fact that there are several temporary employment agencies that exclusively target this group. However, I believe that these people should also have a chance of a regular employment contract with an employer. That is why this bill makes it more attractive with a number of measures. What are those measures that make it more attractive? The payment of wages in the event of illness is reduced, as is the obligation of reintegration and the prohibition of withdrawal. AOW's who are not entitled to payment of wages are entitled to a sickness benefit of up to six weeks. This is relevant for AOWs who, for example, work on the basis of a temporary contract ending during their illness period, or on the basis of a temporary employment contract. The health insurance will be recovered from the employer. The notice period is reduced to one month. There is also the adjustment of the chain clause, whereby AOW'ers can work longer on temporary contracts. They are all measures that apply to both employees and civil servants. I shall, of course, come back to the concerns that have also been expressed. Mrs Vermeij asked what kind of jobs the AOW beneficiaries work in. Sectors in which we see this a lot are the transport sector, with apprenticeship, coach and taxi services, and the broadcasting sector. These are mainly temporary employment agencies specialising in the mediation of AOW beneficiaries. The question of different parties was, quite rightly, how we look at the care or the fear of displacement of workers or jobseekers under the AOW age. I understand these concerns. It is logical that, at a time when unemployment is going to fall but is still too high, people should be concerned about the phenomenon of displacement. The answer is no. I believe that in this legislative proposal we have struck a good balance between, on the one hand, making work after the age of AOW on the basis of a contract of employment and, on the other hand, measures to prevent displacement of not yet AOW beneficiaries. The word 'balance' was used by several speakers, in particular by Mr Heerma. I asked the Central Planning Bureau to identify the employment effects of the proposal and to pay explicit attention to displacement. The Central Planning Bureau concludes that the proposal will not lead to the displacement of non-AOW beneficiaries at least in the longer term. It points to parallels with the increase in the employment rate of women and older people. The sharp increase in female participation in the 1990s went hand in hand with a structural decline in unemployment. The increase in the number of older people active in the labour market has not deteriorated the prospects of young people. However, there may be some displacement in the short term. This can never be the case on a large scale. For this, the group of people working after reaching the AOW pensionable age is too small compared to the number of workers under the AOW pensionable age. It's about 2%. In response to Mrs Vermeij's question, I say that the desire to work after the age of AOW is not very great at the moment. How this will be done in the future is unclear. We don't know. On the one hand, as a result of an ageing population, we see an increase in the number of people entitled to AOW. On the other hand, the AOW age increases, which reduces the number of people who want to work after reaching the AOW age. They're, in a sense, communicating vessels. It also really depends on a lot of developments, including social developments, as to how this goes. In response to Mr Ulenbelt's question on the Hamer/Christmas motion, I would point out that the fact that no repression is expected is an important reason not to opt for equal wage costs for people under and above the age of AOW. Other objections to this are that this is contrary to the aim of the law, namely to promote working after the AOW age on the basis of a contract of employment. Increasing the wage costs of the employees entitled to benefit from the AOW makes it more attractive to be a company or to be a worker. I think a lighter labour law regime is justified now that AOW beneficiaries already have AOW and in many cases supplementary pension. In addition, this would lead to very high implementation costs. I now turn to the measures aimed at combating displacement. There are a number of specific measures to this end. First of all, the application of the statutory minimum wage to AOW-plussers. It is not known that this is not yet the case. It seems logical and decent to me that workers cannot be paid below the statutory minimum wage. We can still do that now. In 2012, 16,000 jobs under the WML were filled by AOW'ers. I would like to make no mistake that if there is a collective agreement, the AOWer must of course be paid according to that collective agreement. Secondly, the Working Time Adjustment Act (WAA) is declared inapplicable to AOW-plussers. Mr Dijkgraaf and Mr Heerma have asked why this measure is countering repression and whether it would not make these AOW-plussers too attractive. An employee may, on the basis of the WAA, request an increase in the number of working hours. An employer is, in principle, obliged to agree to this. Disapplying the WAA for AOW-plussers prevents the employer from having to agree to an appeal from an AOWer to increase the number of working hours. This will prevent this being done at the expense of younger workers. For the record: Mr Mulder quoted page 12 of the CPB note, where it is quite rightly stated that there is not a single box of jobs in the Netherlands which are distributed at the expense of others. This can of course be the case within a company. If an older worker asked for an extension of hours and the employer was obliged to give them, those hours could be at the expense of the younger workers. That's why we did this. We do not expect employers to go against the WAA in such a way that that would be a reason not to hire a younger employee. I believe that this is a protection against the AOW-minners against the AOW-plussers. Thirdly, only collective agreements can derogate from the definition of the chain.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u87	I would like to continue with this reasoning. Does the Minister consider that anyone who now works a certain number of hours has the right to work more hours through the WAA, or does the employer have the duty to at least give a reasoned answer? I think the latter is the case. Both the Work Flexible Work Act (Wfw) and the Work Flexible Work Act (Wfw) raise a lot of resistance from employers; they see it as an obstacle. Therefore, I do not understand why the cabinet believes that removing what employers see as an obstacle will mean that we will not get repression while the right to work more hours is established. No, the employer has to respond to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u88	Mr Heerma and I differ on the assessment of the impact of this particular measure. It is true that there is no absolute right to increase the number of hours; it is a qualified right. An employer may differ from that, but in principle you are entitled to enlargement. Resistance to this is part of a broader discussion, as there is in fact resistance to any increase in workers' ability to decide for themselves how their working hours and flexibility are regulated. We have discussed this at length in the debate on the modernisation of leave rules. At that time, I was pleased to hear the House say that it sees things differently. It makes workers' rights prevail in this respect, because this is more appropriate at this time. In this case, it is about assessing what would happen if you also granted that right to AOW-plussers in the context of the contract of employment. In this context, it is important that the AOW-plussers have access to an AOW, which means that they are less dependent on expanding working hours than possibly younger workers. That is the reason why they should not be granted this right. We do not think that the perceived repulsion against the WAA is a reason to just hire AOW-plussers and thereby create a pervasive effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u89	A great deal has already been said about displacement, its risk and the balance sheet, which the Minister has just spoken about. Surely the risk of displacement is mainly because an employer may find an AOW beneficiary substantially cheaper? That risk is far more real than forcing an employer to make an AOW beneficiary work more when he isn't actually waiting for it. I am curious to see how the Minister views this, because I still think it is a rather remarkable reasoning.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u90	You can encounter the phenomenon of displacement in different ways. It can take place when accessing an employment, i.e. the virtual case in which an employer thinks: I have one vacancy and who do I invite? This first category was in Mr Ulenbelt's speech and that is also in this question. But there can of course also be displacement because companies are growing and shrinking and the question is how hours of work are divided within a company. That's the second category of displacement. If there is not an unlimited amount of hours of work available within a company, it is fair to grant the right to enlargement to people who do not have supplementary income provision; AOWs do. It is therefore not so much a question of balancing access to employment, but rather of comparing people within an employment relationship.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u91	The Minister continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u92	The fourth measure to combat displacement is that since last year we have amended the Dismissal Decision in such a way that AOW beneficiaries are the first to be made redundant in the event of economic redundancies. This has been done again on the basis of the reasoning that they have an income provision and that this distinguishes them from the other workers. Finally, the bill offers opportunities for older workers who are not yet entitled to AOW. It becomes more attractive for an employer to employ an older employee if he knows that he can continue working on a lighter employment regime after the AOW age. This has already been reflected in the debate on the choice between Mrs Vermeij and Mr Ulenbelt. It is difficult to estimate for an individual employee, but it is indeed an argument. The Work and Security Act also contributes to this. It provides that an employer may terminate the employment contract of a pensionable worker without a preventive test, and that there is also no transition fee due in the event of dismissal from or after the retirement age. This also makes it more attractive for an employer to employ an older, not yet retired employee. The SGP spokesperson asks me to address a specific situation in which a 60-year-old worker has to compete for the same work with a 68-year-old AOWer, who is cheaper in a number of respects. The risk of displacement is particularly high for older beneficiaries looking for work. For that group, the premium discount for older beneficiaries is indeed important, as Mr Dijkgraaf rightly points out. That premium discount makes it financially more attractive to employ a benefit-holder oldage pension scheme as of 1 January 2015 is that someone aged 56 years or over. The employer receives a premium discount of €7,000 per year for a maximum period of three years. This is a substantial counterweight to the abolition of employee insurance premiums. At the request of Mr Dijkgraaf, the cabinet is proposing measures to deal with the problem of money laundering in the smaller companies in particular. This can be particularly true for companies with a wage bill of around €70,000. They must also be able to use this instrument. There are many opportunities, especially for older job seekers. On 6 February last I informed the Chamber of the way in which we intend to do this, namely by transforming the system of premiums into a new instrument outside the wage declaration. In other ways, too, the cabinet supports the labour market position of older unemployed people, which was just mentioned in Mr Krol's speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u93	The Minister uses the premium discount of €7,000 as an argument that the difference would not be that big, but he also knows that the advantage of hiring an AOW is much greater than that €7,000?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u94	The considerations that an employer stands for are not easy to simulate. If that would be decisive, the employer can now also choose to hire someone over the retirement age by means of a temporary employment contract or azzp-structure. In many cases, he doesn't even get the minimum wage. So it's not that simple. We are not trying to bring about a major landslide with this bill, but we are trying to ensure that more people who want to do so can continue working on the basis of a contract of employment after the age of AOW. That's exactly what this bill says.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u95	People who now work on the basis of a collective agreement have a normal wage. The wage costs for the employer are then the same. A light labour law regime means that people with AOW are cheaper for the employer than people under the AOW age. The CPB may say that there is no displacement, but the reasoning it uses for that is very strange. It expects a large demand for AOW'ers. Wages will then rise and demand will fall again. So I think the Minister really needs to repeat that story about displacement. If you send cheaper people into the labour market, there will be displacement. Look at what's happening in the supermarkets of young people.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u96	I have looked very seriously at the issue of displacement. Not for nothing have I taken time to balance the bill at that point. I've asked the Central Planning Office to look into that. There was a reason for that. I understand these concerns very well. What Mr Ulenbelt is always ignoring, including in this interruption, is the fact that the choice is not so much between someone above or below the age of AOW. The choice is now: do I opt for a temporary employment contract,zzp-schap, or for someone under the AOW age? With this bill, we are trying to increase protection for people who want to continue working after reaching the AOW age, and to make it more attractive for employers to offer people a contract. That's what's supposed to happen in a decent labour market. That doesn't cause a landslide. I just said a few words about the numbers. I think this is part of moving the labour market forward. We don't know how we're gonna look at AOW beneficiaries and work in 10, 20 or 30 years. I do know that it will benefit society if people with so much talent and so much added value continue to use talent for our society. D66 and the PvdA have asked me to look into the way in which monitoring is carried out. How do we take into account the increase in the AOW age? How do we take account of the effects of the economic situation? First of all, I will monitor mainly on the basis of the existing and regular statistics of the Central Statistical Office, for example by comparing very closely the development of the employment rate of the 60 to 65-year-olds with that of the 65 to 70-year-olds group. If the trend in participation rates is suddenly different from the past, this may be an indication of short-term displacement. I share Mr Van Weyenberg's view in his first term that further refinement is desirable here. I'll go with the Central Bureau of Statistics to see if that's possible. For example, we can better take into account the increase in the AOW age, and look at the type of job and the distinction between self-employed and employees, as Mrs Vermeij rightly pointed out. I would like to use the CBS to see if we can organise specific monitoring on both points. In the context of expectations, too, I would like to point out that it is difficult to monitor very specifically how the legislative proposal could lead to displacement. The development of the labour market position and labour market participation of non-AOW beneficiaries and AOW beneficiaries depends on a large number of different factors. We know that. That is how Mr Van Weyenberg pointed out the economic situation. The autonomous, intrinsic and partly culturally determined increase in the employment rate and the AOW-age also plays a role. As a result, it remains difficult to measure the pure effect of the bill. Other policies also play a role in this. That doesn't change the fact that I'm going to do my utmost to monitor this as best I can. I think the Chamber knows how serious I think this element is in the proposal. Again, we do not expect shock effects to occur. We have looked very carefully at that. If that is the case, the existing instruments to monitor do provide an indication of this. I'll come back to the room. What are we gonna do if there's displacement? The Central Planning Office is crystal clear about the long term. The CPB also believes that it may occur in the short term, but that its size will be limited. That is why I am committed to monitoring. I have discussed the way in which monitoring will be carried out, but I share the importance of monitoring with Heerma, Krol and everyone who has talked about this further. I am not even able to anticipate what we are going to see in that monitor, and therefore I do not think it would be wise to answer the 'what, if' questions right now. If there is evidence of displacement, it is not something we consider desirable, let us be clear. If it were, we would analyse these effects and consult the Court on whether and, if so, what measures are needed. 50PLUS asked for a further quantification of employment. We have an explicit view of the effects on employment and this is reflected in the CPB study. These analyses lead the cabinet and therefore I am not inclined to ask another party to look at the employment effects. It is also good practice that the cabinet works with permanent advisors and mathematicians, because it makes figures comparable and, if one wishes, countable. Of course there are other relevant sources as well, but in this case it is in my view a very sound calculation of the expected effects, allowing us, as legislators, to take stock of whether or not it is a good proposal. The CDA asked me to expect that more elderly people who are now employed by an employer will continue to work on the same contract with the same employer after reaching the AOW age. Mr Heerma also asks me to put that on the table. My answer is: yes, that is the expectation. Since there will be a lighter labour law regime after the age of AOW, there is no reason to fire an employee and then whether or not to rehire him on a temporary contract via a temporary agency. I am not talking about the kick-start in Mr Mulder's veteran team, but about the examples of employers who actually regret that retirement age is driving them apart. In these cases, it could be very helpful, and they are also people we should be trying to help. Mr Van Weyenberg asks whether it is true that the European directive requires that there should be a limitation of the chain provision but that it should be left to the Member State to decide how it is to be completed. That is true, but the aim of the directive is, of course, to prevent the misuse of successive temporary contracts. If you were to say that you want to allow 100 contracts in five years, that would still be contrary to the purpose of the directive. However, this is without prejudice to the fact that Member States have a relatively large freedom to decide how they intend to limit the succession of temporary contracts. Mr Krol asks me to indicate why the measures are necessary and legitimate in relation to the Equal Treatment Act. I believe they are necessary in order to achieve the stated objective of the law. That is also the framework within which the test should take place. It is not a general test on whether or not we consider this law necessary, but a test on whether or not it is measures necessary for the purpose of the law. We may differ on this objective, but within that framework, it is measures that are necessary and legitimate. This objective, which is to promote work on the basis of a contract of employment, is also a legitimate objective for the Cabinet. The cabinet is in favour of using the employment contract as a way of regulating the relationship between employer and employee. In my view, the measures are necessary to achieve this. Mr Van Weyenberg asks if I am prepared to investigate how best to regulate pensions. After all, on the one hand, there are people who are building up pensions after the age of AOW, but who do not think that is necessary and, on the other hand, people who do not build up pensions, but who would want to. It is true that in practice you see different situations around the pension-building after the AOW-age. Making agreements on supplementary pensions is a matter for the social partners, including when it comes to supplementary pensions after the AOW pension age. So what is regulated really depends on the pension scheme itself. I am prepared, in close consultation with Secretary of State Kleinsma, to look into how this is covered by existing pension schemes. I would also like to raise the question of how we can best deal with this for AOW beneficiaries. I note, however, that it is and remains the responsibility of the social partners to agree on this. Mr Van Weyenberg knows how much I attach importance to respecting the domain in which employers and employees make agreements with each other. However, I share with him the importance of such an investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u97	I welcome this answer. The government also determines the playing field here, of course, because we now make it mandatory to continue, for example, if you are still in an occupational pension fund. I thank the Minister for the commitment. May I assume that this will also look at things about which the AOW's themselves say to run into? If that's part of it, I'm totally satisfied.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u98	I did not intend to do so by means of a survey, but the importance of the workers must indeed be taken into account in such an investigation. I will discuss with Mr Klijnsma how we are going to do that, but this question will also be discussed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u99	I understand the Minister isn't going to do a survey. But my central goal is to gain a better understanding of the extent to which this is perceived as a problem by working people over the AOW age.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u100	I think you're in agreement. The Minister continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u101	I also think we agree. Mr Klein asked why reaching retirement age is a natural time to terminate an employment contract. This moment is shifting, so how can this be a natural moment? It is not about nature, like the fact that it is now spring, but it is about a logical moment. This is how the word "natural" should be understood here. I would suggest that in 96% of cases collective agreements or contracts of employment provide that the contract ends when the AOW age or other retirement age is reached. It is up to the parties themselves to determine whether or not employees can continue to work after reaching the AOW age. That should not be imposed by us. If the parties have not settled anything, the scheme in the Work and Security Act applies, namely that the employment contract may be terminated because of the mere fact of reaching the retirement age. In this case, this is not an automatic retirement, but a possibility of dismissal. If it were not possible to get fired for reaching that age, this could lead to a deterioration in the labour market position of older people. Many of the jobs we hear about this bill would be relevant. The advantage of this scheme of dismissal for that group is that it is attractive for an employer to employ or retain an older employee. As has been said, this is only true to the extent that the parties have not determined otherwise. If the parties have made an agreement, the employer cannot terminate the contract of employment because of the mere fact that the pensionable age has been reached. Then there will have to be a reasonable basis, as laid down in the Work and Security Act, and permission from the UWV or from the judge is required. That fits perfectly within the regime of the Work and Security Act. D66 asks whether it is still possible for workers to be dismissed when they reach the age of 65. I cannot rule out the fact that there are still collective agreements that have a 65-year limit instead of the AOW age, but that would be contrary to the ban on age discrimination. The worker who is dismissed because of reaching the age of 65 can therefore challenge that in court. However, I cannot rule out 100% that it does not happen anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u102	No, and that's a bad thing, also because people suddenly get fired, but they don't get an AOW yet. I'm looking for a way we can still get this in the picture. The Minister's colleague, the Secretary of State, had always said that this should of course not happen anymore. I take it that this type of collective agreement is not generally binding. Would the Secretary of State like to discuss with the Secretary of State how we can get a picture of this? I would be very serious if this were to happen. In fact, I would have expected the answer that this is fortunately one of the past.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u103	It's part of the past, but I can't rule out that it's still happening. There are no new collective agreements in which this occurs. The avv question is therefore no longer on the agenda. I can't rule it out, but employees will have a very strong case in court. Every employer will change his mind twice before he does this. Until further notice, however, we must not make the problem any bigger than it is. It's always dangerous to rule something out. I can't rule that out, but I don't want to create the opposite picture either. Mr Klein asked whether a transition fee was not appropriate for the elderly who were laid off. The transition allowance is intended to compensate for the dismissal of people who are dependent on doing work in order to provide for their livelihood. The remuneration can therefore be used to find another job. That's what the compensation is for. The Work and Security Act, established by this Chamber, therefore provides that a transition fee is not payable in the event of dismissal on or after the AOW age or any other retirement age. Again, it's up to him whether you depend on your work for your income or not. I believe that the Court has also taken this into account in limiting the transition fee for not yet AOW beneficiaries. The SGP indicates that there are signs that the Tax Administration does not grant mobility bonus when older people enter an employer's employment through a learning firm. The application of the premium discount is based on criteria, in particular to ensure that public funds are used efficiently and to prevent abuse. An employer is entitled to a reduction in the contribution if he is employed by an older beneficiary of 65 years of age or older on the basis of a benefit. An employer who satisfies this requirement shall be entitled to the premium discount. I don't know the exact case the SGP spokesperson sketches. I am very open to signals from the SGP about this. I'd be happy to get in touch with the IRS on this. The more information I receive, the greater the chance of successful intervention.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u104	That seems to me to be a good thing. We will gather these signals and send them to the Minister. In view of the Minister's words, I expect a positive action towards the Tax Administration, so that this route is not cut off.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u105	Agreed. Mr Krol asked whether it was necessary for the bill to enter into force on 1 January. After all, the UWV has indicated that it cannot be fully executed at that time. For the implementation of the disease laws of this bill we had extensive consultation with the UWV and the Tax Administration. This has shown that the payment of the sickness benefit is enforceable on 1 January. The proposal to recover the benefit from the employer is enforceable as of 1 July 2016. Between 1 January and 1 July, the benefits will be financed from the Disability Fund. In short, the bill is well enforceable as of 1 January 2016. I would now like to respond to the amendments and then briefly discuss the flexible AOW. The latter was actually a secondary subject. Following the examination of the amendments, I have had working after the age of AOW. Then I'll do one more block of substance. I shall begin with the D66 and VVD amendments on the supply chain clause, the amendment to item No. 10 by Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Mulder. In doing so, the proposers wish to provide by law that the number of temporary contracts for AOW beneficiaries can be set at a maximum of six in up to four years. There is the amendment in part No. 12 by Mrs Schouten and Mrs Vermeij, which regulates the payment of wages in the event of sickness, is set at 13 weeks instead of six weeks. I think it is important that the legislative proposal strikes a good balance between measures that make working after the AOW age more attractive and measures that prevent displacement. The amendment on chain determination makes it more attractive to employ or retain an AOW beneficiary. On the contrary, in this legislative proposal, I chose to extend the chain clause only by collective agreement, in order to prevent repression. Cao parties can then see for themselves whether enlargement is necessary in a particular sector; an argument that Mr Heerma expressed here eloquently. On the contrary, the amendment on the payment of wages makes a smaller difference with AOW-minners, at least in the shorter term. The Central Planning Bureau says that it is precisely in that shorter period that some displacement cannot be ruled out. For this reason, I am inclined to conclude that if the amendments were to be adopted in conjunction with them, they would not disturb the balance in the legislative proposal. That is why I should like to leave the two amendments to the House.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u106	I have a technical remark. Now that Mr Dijkgraaf has amended his amendment, our amendment is no longer correct. That refers to Mr Dijkgraaf's amendment. Thanks for the positive opinion, but we still have to amend the amendment. This will be purely a technical amendment because it refers to an amendment that has been given a different number.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u107	In doing so, you expect the Minister's opinion to remain unchanged, and you would like that confirmation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u108	I know Mrs Schouten and Mr Dijkgraaf a little longer. If this were a brilliant trick, they would never have brought it here like this. So I have every confidence in it. I did not just happen to come to Mr Dijkgraaf's amendment, for the sake of safety, I say: Mr Dijkgraaf's amendments. They see on evaluation of the effects of the law in practice. I have already indicated that I want to monitor the consequences of the law and that that is very important. This is also apparent from the first-term discussion. I would like to leave the opinion on this amendment, however technical it may be, to the Chamber. In the light of the explanatory statement to the amendment, I would like to point out that the question of repressing the law as a whole is difficult. The participation of the AOW-plussers and the AOW-minners depends on a multitude of factors, as I said just now in response to questions from Mrs Vermeij. But if repression is found, then we will see if there are any measures that are reasonable and, if so, which ones. However, I think it would be useful, through this amendment, to establish this evaluation function in conjunction with the monitoring already promised.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u109	This is about the amendment to item No. 13.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u110	Apologies. Yes, the amendment to item No. 13. Then I come to the amendment to item No. 9 of the SP Group. In fact, the legislative proposal is limited in the sense that the minimum wage, employee insurance and public insurance are applicable to AOW beneficiaries. I would advise against this amendment. It is contrary to the purpose of the law. The aim of the law is to promote working after the AOW age on the basis of contract of employment. Our expectation is that that objective will not be achieved with this amendment, even more so, which makes Mr Ulenbelt's amendment more attractive to employment. Finally, it would also lead to higher implementation costs, but that is a subordinate argument in the reasoning leading to the discouragement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u111	Mr President,......................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u112	I am looking at Mr Ulenbelt, because it is his amendment. If he wishes to put a question to the Minister first, I will give him the opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u113	Now it's happening exactly what I'm afraid of. It is now being used to weaken workers' rights under a contract of employment. Surely the Minister must agree with me thatzzp'ers who continue to work after their AOW were before that? Moreover, after the age of AOW they must have three clients to be a zzp'er. That's not gonna happen, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u114	I do not agree with Mr Ulenbelt at all. He ignores the fact that an employer who wants to continue working with an older employee or who wants to hire an older employee will soon have to ask: how will I do that? If the employer does so by means of an undertaking or through a temporary agency, the worker has less rights than after the adoption of this bill, because the contract of employment becomes more attractive again. It is a different regulated employment contract than for AOW-minners, but there is every reason for that, because AOW-plusers receive AOW and in many cases supplementary pension. So it is not a question of whether or not someone has that job, nor of reducing workers' rights. No, it's about increasing the chance that people who want to work after reaching retirement age do so on the basis of a contract of employment. That is one of the things that both Mr Ulenbelt is in favour of if I am in favour of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u115	The Minister is talking about increasing workers' rights. This morning, the FNV sent a press release to the world: Chamber, vote against this bill. The CNV sent a message to the world: support the SP amendment. Then who is standing here defending workers' rights? I think I'm doing more than the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u116	I've been here two and a half years and I've always hated you. That has only increased. A few weeks ago, we were standing here. Then Mr Ulenbelt was explaining that the FNV did not understand when the FNV called for the bill to be adopted. I have great respect for the employee training in our country. I always listen to them very carefully. They can also see that some of their concerns have led to changes in the legislative proposal, but we still have to consider what is good for this country. I am convinced that this bill contains a balance sheet which, on the one hand, makes it attractive for employers to offer someone a contract of employment and, on the other hand, provides better protection for workers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u117	The Minister will continue his reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u118	Can I just take a moment to respond to the you-box?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u119	Because you ask so nicely.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u120	That's not you-boxes at all. FNV called for the Bill approach to support bogus constructions and the Minister was also very pleased that the SP did so. So there's no mention of you baking.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u121	Well, I appreciate that. That's how I know Mr Ulenbelt. I assure him that once again I will be very happy to support this bill. I come to the response to the flexible AOW. A number of questions have been asked. At the request of the Chamber, the possibilities of introducing a flexible recording AOW were examined very thoroughly. It also looked at proposals from the past. Mrs Schouten referred to this and asked me to reflect on it again. In the Klein motion (33750-XV, No. 49) calls for the identification of social benefits and costs. In February, the Secretary of State informed the Chamber of the results of that inquiry by letter. With her I find that a flexible recordable AOW will not solve any problems. The possibility to allow the AOW to enter later does not offer any substantial additional freedom of choice, because people can now continue to work longer without delay of the AOW. In that sense, the AOW does not constitute any obstacle. The bill we are discussing today is precisely intended to make it simpler, more attractive and to remove obstacles. Everyone is expected to work longer and therefore the AOW age has been increased. That's what this Chamber has done. This will preserve the AOW for future generations and keep the AOW affordable in the long term. We also see this in the calculations of the Central Planning Bureau. The sustainability deficit has turned into a small shelf life surplus. The possibility of getting the AOW to go in earlier puts that on question again. People will work for less time as a result. Solidarity is the foundation on which the AOW is built, and that is a great asset. The AOW belongs to everyone and to everyone. The disadvantage of a flexible AOW is that it is only for people who can afford it and have sufficient income or wealth. To date, the AOW has been a viable and understandable scheme for citizens. Flexibilisation makes the implementation complex and expensive. In view of the costs and limited social benefits, if any, we do not choose to do so. Mr Klein asked if I would ask the CPB to conduct an integral investigation into a flexible AOW and work after the AOW. The cabinet has no reason to believe that a new investigation would look different from the existing investigation and is therefore not in favour of it. Mr Klein says that we reject this because it leads to lower employment rates. It is true that a flexible AOW age can ensure that people retire earlier. Experience from the past with the VRS shows that this does not create additional jobs for young people. For this, see the analyses of what happened in France with the reduction in working hours. It leads to less employment rather than more. That is also one of the reasons why we think it costs a lot here, but does not provide work for young generations, no matter how sympathetic that thought sounds. I came with that at the end of my first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u122	There is another question for you from Mr Klein. May I ask Members to keep the interruptions brief? Then it might even be possible to do the second term for lunch.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u123	Very briefly, the Minister refers to an investigation that would be carried out. One of my criticisms was that there is no investigation. The motion tabled by me and adopted by the Chamber was precisely about us having to investigate and actually have the CPB calculate what the effects would be. That investigation wasn't carried out. The Minister is right that this Act may in fact complement the idea of the flexible AOW after the AOW age. There's a relationship there. But it's not right to say that we've had an investigation before and so we can't do anything now. The Minister didn't carry out that investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u124	Is that your question to the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u125	Then the question is why...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u126	No, um...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u127	...why doesn't he do this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u128	Fine. Then that's the question to the Minister. We were looking for the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u129	I have tried to outline how we reacted to that motion. I note that Mr Klein is not satisfied with that response. However, it is the reaction on behalf of the cabinet that he will have to deal with for a while. The specific question in this debate was whether the government is prepared to re-examine it. The answer to that is no. I'd like to offer that clarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u130	Mr Klein, you have a brief follow-up question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u131	I know what I have to do in the second term. That's all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u132	Excellent.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u133	The reflection was a little short, but well, there has indeed been an investigation. I've seen the letter from the Secretary of State of SZW. But I asked more about the Minister's opinion. There are variations, such as part-time AOW, called. Does the Minister recognise that the introduction of such a part-time AOW can contribute precisely to the fact that people continue to work longer after the age of AOW?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u134	I apologize if my reflection was too short. That's also looking for a balance. Mrs Schouten knows me as someone who can elaborate on an issue a little longer. We've had some legal treatment here where my answer included 72 pages. I thought that wasn't the feeling of the Chamber right now. Of course, it remains interesting to philosophize about other variants, such as flexibilisation of the AOW. But I sincerely believe that, if there is any positive social impact, we should be very careful about the implementation costs and the decreasing clarity of the scheme. Those two things can easily get out of hand. I think that with this bill we will remove some obstacles to working after the AOW age. This is a good time to reduce working hours. You can see that a lot of AOW beneficiaries choose that. They say, "I'd like to go on, but on a lower pimple." Nothing stands in the way of that. I myself do not feel that making part-time AOW possible has added value compared to the costs, which would nevertheless be very significant. That is the reason for my short but negative reflection.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u135	We should talk about this at a later date, including the Secretary of State, who ultimately deals with this issue. I think that these implementation costs have been looked at very carefully in the past. This isn't new. We've been thinking about this for a long time. I agree with the Minister that we should not be setting up all kinds of things that ultimately cost a lot. But think about how to give employees the opportunity to use their talents in a tailored way. I call on the Minister to make his views known.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u136	Of course, because the mind must never stop by any law. Following the adoption of the law, implementation begins in practice. I think that we are all committed to continuing to look at opportunities that allow people to remain active in the labour market in a pleasant way. So I understand that call very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u137	My party, the PVV, is a warm supporter of more freedom of choice if you stop working. The cabinet, says the minister, is not prepared to look into it. He mentions as a reason the low social yield of a flexible AOW. Now I know that a lot of people have a huge need for that freedom of choice. Listening to what people want, doesn't it have a huge social return? How can the Minister say that there is a low social return if so many people want it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u138	Of course, Mr Madlener is right about that. A lot of people crave retirement, or fantasize about it. That's absolutely true. What was involved here is the question of what such a proposal means for the country as a whole and for our society. Then you see that the AOW is based on solidarity for a reason: everyone gets AOW and everyone will work for it. The AOW entitled age is the same for everyone. We raised that age after a difficult discussion, which was necessary. The PVV was also in favour of this, albeit not at the current pace. That takes political courage. This does not alter the fact that individual workers may wish to retire earlier. In an analysis, following a motion by Mr Klein, we looked at what a flexible starting date for the AOW would mean. Part of it can mean that people work longer. They can do that now; this bill will make it easier. In part, it may mean that people stop earlier, but then the question is whether this does not undermine the solidarity in the AOW and whether you do not just regulate it for people who can afford it. All this has meant that we have said: we are not in favour of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u139	To correct this, the PVV is in favour of an AOW age of 65 for everyone. The Minister here claims that age is now the same for everyone, but that is not true. On the site of the SVB it says that age for young people, for 20s, is probably already 71.5. Thus, with the current rules and expectations, they can only retire when they are 71.5 years old.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u140	We're not gonna repeat the whole discussion about the AOW. You may ask a short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u141	We're not gonna have that discussion again. I asked how the Minister could say that social benefits are so low, and so many people would like to. I didn't actually get an answer to that. However, I think that the Minister should make it clear here that the cabinet is simply not prepared to listen to the wishes of so many people. The argument that the social income is low is something I want off the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u142	My view is that the PVV is in favour of raising the retirement age outside of election time. At least that was the case at the time of the PVV-supported Rutte I cabinet; if I remember correctly, that was the day after the elections. However, we are now once again close to elections. So maybe we can figure that out in a week. By social income, I do not mean the wishes of individual Dutch people. Of course these wishes are there and I can imagine anything, but in the consideration of what introducing a flexible AOW means for the future of the Netherlands, this is not a good idea at the end of the day.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u143	Madam President, when you, as a small party, have such an important debate, you sometimes need a little more time to put your motions and amendments in order. So I hope you'll take a little more break for the next term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u144	You are making a request for order, because we have indeed reached the end of the first term. The balance is indeed: now suspend for lunch or continue with the second term. Mr Krol, you are one of the last speakers. Is that gonna buy you enough time? In general, you must always be prepared for a debate to go through at once. Perhaps you are even prepared to speak as the last speaker. Then I'll change the order of the speakers' lists and we can go on. Your chairman is supposed to go to another meeting around 1.30 p.m., but I will try to finish this debate. If you help me too, maybe you will. I note that we can continue and start with the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u145	Mr. Chairman. If you find that the payment of wages in case of illness is an obstacle, you have to remove that obstacle. This barrier applies not only to pensioners who want to work, but also to people under 65. At the time, my party was against that long pay-as-you-go. So we should take it away for people above and below 65. After this debate, too, it remains fundamentally incorrect to make such large differences in labour law and in the employment contract between people over the age of AOW and people under that age. Of the parties defending workers' rights, the FNV and the CNV, the first does not support the law. The CNV says support the SP amendment. I'm in good company. We must collectively ensure the absence of disease. That could take away the barrier for young and old towards flex.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u146	I am trying to help Mr Krol with an interruption. Is it true that Mr Ulenbelt's amendment also provides that AOW-plussers who are at work will be given a considerable obligation to reintegrate and apply for work?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u147	In the Netherlands, it is so arranged that those who are unemployed and over 64 are not required to apply. So it's gonna stay that way. Re-integration obligations are, of course, assessed on the basis of "what is the future?'. If a 66-year-old person works, gets sick and would like to work through, what is there to stop such a person from being helped with reintegration? If someone says it's been nice, he's gonna quit and retire and take AOW. Mrs. Vermeij is looking for nails on low water.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u148	It is very doubtful whether all the obligations set out in Mr Ulenbelt's amendment will lead to more contracts or to fewer contracts. This should be supported by the SP, a party that stands up for employees' interests.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u149	It may well be that, for very different reasons, it leads to fewer contracts, because many workers are forced, against their will, to work until their 71st. That is in itself repression, but by that time few people over 71 years of age will continue to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u150	I wonder what Mr Ulenbelt's consideration is about voting against this bill. He has just told Mrs Vermeij that workers who wish to continue working and have a re-integration obligation should be given full space. In other words, all the room for those who want to continue working after reaching the AOW age. In my opinion, that space also offers this bill. At the same time, the unions, to which Mr Ulenbelt refers, argue that there is a high risk of displacement. In other words, they do not want these older people to continue working because this may be at the expense of the younger workers. What is Mr Ulenbelt's argument?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u151	The argument is that you make the wage costs for the employer for someone with AOW many times lower than for someone under the AOW age. So this creates inequality in position and a very high risk of displacement. However, the fundamental argument is not a distinction between workers above and workers below the AOW age in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u152	Then Mr Ulenbelt must have already put on the table, because now there are also people who work without good working conditions above 65? I have not seen any proposal from Mr Ulenbelt to deal with this in all these years. Now he blames the rest of the Chamber for wanting to do better. I think that's a little contradictory.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u153	We support the proposal, which is also part of this law, that the minimum wage should apply to people over 65.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u154	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for the answer and for the commitment to look at how we deal with whether or not we make it compulsory to save supplementary pensions if you are already working beyond the AOW age or do not have the opportunity to do so, which is what you would like to do. Both cases where the dismissal still takes place at 65 and the flexible AOW are likely to be further discussed with the Secretary of State in the discussion of the bill on the accelerated increase in the AOW. That may also be the more appropriate place. I believe that the balance between the various amendments tabled by Mr Vermeij, Mr Dijkgraaf and Mr Schouten, together with Mr Mulder and myself, is well secured. I will therefore advise my group to vote in favour of all three amendments. With this we have a law that finally makes it easier to continue working after ten years of talking, so that this group of people can not only continue working as a social worker but also for employers to offer contracts for this group. In this sense, I remain surprised at the attitude of the Socialist Party, which apparently rejects a law which makes a contract of employment a real possibility, and comes with an amendment which, in my view, leads to not more work being created for people over the age of AOW but less. My final question to the Minister goes along with that. Is it true, given the calculation system of the Central Planning Bureau, that this bill will lead to more jobs on balance and that Mr Ulenbelt's amendment will lead to fewer jobs?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u155	Mrs Vermeij's questions have been sufficiently answered. Then I will go on to Mr Klein.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u156	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply and for the explanation of this bill, in particular for a number of provisions that I had asked for in the first period. I think that the answer itself is again part of the further implementation and interpretation of the law. That is why I am abstaining from any further amendment to the law at this time. The Minister reiterates his response to the flexible AOW. In fact, it is more of a substantive answer, as a matter of principle, we think that it is actually nothing, rather than a basis for the story and the ideas of a flexible AOW. Solidarity is, in my view, not at all at issue in this context. It's a budget neutral system: you get less if you quit earlier and you get more AOW if you don't call on the AOW anymore. In fact, the letter of 16 February lacks the justification, the reason why you should do this. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Noting that the Chamber in the Klein motion (33750-XV, No. 49) requested an investigation into flexible AOW;]] [[Whereas, in its response to this motion, the government does not wish to launch an investigation into flexible AOW, which would, among other things, lead to reduced employment rates;]] [[Whereas the Government wishes to make it easier to work longer after the age of AOW in the Working Act after the age of AOW, but has concerns about the displacement that could result from encouraging it;]] [[noting that the foregoing considerations could complement each other and that this would give greater freedom of choice to the older worker;]] [[calls on the Government to reconsider its views on work around the age of AOW by examining the various measures in full and incorporating them into an integrated vision of "Working and AOW," which can actually offer the flexibility that fits in with the present time,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Klein. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34073-15]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u157	My next motion is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Working Act provides a balance between the possibilities of voluntary work on the basis of a contract of employment and the potential risk of labour displacement of, for example, 50-plussers;]] [[considers that the current difficult position of 50+ in the labour market should not hinder the promotion of work after the age of AOW;]] [[calls on the Government to continue its commitment to the Action Plan 55PlusWorks and, where necessary, to give new impetus,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Klein. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34073-16]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u158	Finally, there is a very strange situation: we have the Lifelong Learning programme, but that ends at 55 years. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Working Act may be an incentive after the age of AOW to allow AOW beneficiaries to work longer;]] [[Whereas this law may also encourage employers to employ people aged 60 or over who have not yet reached the age of AOW;]] [[Whereas an important condition for continuing to work is the maintenance of knowledge from the point of view of lifelong learning;]] [[Whereas the promotion of lifelong learning now ends at the age of 55;]] [[calls on the Government to extend incentives for lifelong learning to 60 years,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Klein. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34073-17]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u159	First of all, I'm very surprised at the operative part. As far as I am concerned, lifelong learning does not stop at all with retirement. So I find the 60-year limit special. My question, however, is another one. What is the source of the observation that lifelong learning stops at 55 years? I would, of course, find that very bad. I'm curious where that came from.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u160	I agree in principle with Mr Van Weyenberg that a border at 55 or 60 years is incorrect. Only, in the Life Long Learning Promotion Programme, the 55-year-old age limit is currently included. I want to raise that line to 60 years. This has to do with the fact that people could or would not be able to comply with any reimbursement arrangements. Mr Van Weyenberg is therefore right, but in practical terms I think it would be wise to increase it to 60 years. Then the age limit in the incentives currently in place would go to 60 years. I am talking about the Life Long Learning Programme, which is being implemented by the Ministry of Education and Science.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u161	Madam President. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. I said in the first term that our position depends on his opinion on the various amendments: the Schouten/Vermeij amendment in part No. 12 over the six weeks versus the thirteen weeks, the Van Weyenberg/Anne Mulder amendment in part No. 10 on the definition of the chain and our own Dijkgraaf amendment in part No. 11 on the evaluation. Fortunately, all three amendments leave the opinion to the House. That makes it possible for me to give the group a positive opinion. In view of the state of play and the linking of the amendments, I am still considering a textual change in the amendment to item No. 13 to help Mrs Schouten. Now that I see her reaction, I guess I won't. I would also like to thank the Minister for his positive comments on the question of money laundering. That's how we know this minister. It is also important to be on top of that, even if the Tax Administration could deal with the scheme differently. We will keep the Minister informed. I hope that this law will indeed lead to more people in an ordinary employment in companies, even over the age of AOW.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u162	Mr. Chairman. I would like to respond very briefly to the Klein motion on part No. 15. It calls on the government to carry out a motion previously adopted. Of course, you shouldn't have to. That motion has already been passed. I think the cabinet should simply carry out an investigation into a flexible AOW. My party is very much in favour of this. We find freedom of choice in the moment you retire a great thing. This is of great social importance. That is why I would like to speak in favour of this once again. Of course, labour displacement is a very big problem. The cabinet is now putting forward a proposal that does not introduce a flexible AOW, but only allows further work to be done and does not allow earlier stops to be made possible. The three amendments tabled by the various Members alleviate the problem. I therefore tend to give a positive opinion to my group, but it will require some discussion to decide what we will ultimately do. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply and hope that the repression of labour will not occur.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u163	Mr. Chairman. In my first term, I indicated that this bill is a matter of balance: the balance sheet to remove the barriers to work beyond the AOW age and not to facilitate displacement by making the difference too big. In his reply, the Minister took up that balance sheet and expressed concern about it as well. He answered most of the questions. Two more questions remain. The first has to do with the Working Time Adjustment Act. In the balance sheet presented by the Minister, he puts it on the side of the prevention of displacement. I remain, even after replying, the feeling that he belongs earlier on the other side of the scale, that of removing barriers. Because our concern with this law is that there will be repression rather than too many barriers left, I think this is an issue. That was perhaps already clear in the written questions of my group. If it is not as the Minister assumes, then the Minister has already indicated that we have some difference of interpretation. In any case, I cannot imagine that it has occurred at all that an AOW beneficiary has made a request to that WAA to work much longer and certainly not that it has led to that second variant of displacement that the Minister has set out in his second term. That is why I would like to suggest that this element of the Working Time Act should be included in the review of the law. Then part of my care would be taken away. I do not want to exaggerate; this is not a very big issue within this law. My second point concerns the response and appreciation of the two amendments. The minister's basically cutting them off from each other. He wanted to keep the balance and highlighted the Schouten/Vermeij amendment in part No. 12 against the Van Weyenberg/Anne Mulder amendment to item No. 12 against the Van Weyenberg/Anne Mulder amendment to item No. 12 against the Van Weyenberg/Anne Mulder amendment to item No. 12 against the Van Weyenberg/Anne Mulder amendment to item No. 12 against the Van Weyenberg/Anne Mulder amendment to item No. 12 against Amendment No. 12 against the However, I wonder whether this can be done simply because my concern is not that we still have too many barriers. My concern is, isn't this displacement going to happen? And is there an amendment that makes the pay-over much shorter rather than very much shorter, equivalent to an amendment that no longer gives the polder any influence to look at whether the chain-setting is going to be longer by sector? Can we get rid of it from each other? I therefore ask the Minister to go into this a little longer and to explain whether he really thinks that these two amendments are equal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u164	Mr. Chairman. Thanks to my associates, who worked so fast. I heard the Minister say that his proposals will make it more attractive for people to work longer after reaching the AOW age. That is true, of course, but he must be honest in saying that it is particularly attractive for employers to employ them. That's also very nice, but it's something else. I would have tabled a motion on the extension of the Action Plan 50PlusWorks, but although Mr Klein did not mention it in his speech, he tabled a motion on this matter. Good, 'cause I can support it. I remain afraid that these measures will not be beneficial to job seekers over 45, who are already struggling in the labour market. Can the Minister tell me how he might be able to help this group extra? In addition, it remains important for 50PLUS to set the payment in case of sickness to 26 weeks. We have tabled an amendment to that effect. Finally, I have one motion on the date of entry. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the planned date of importation of this Act is 1 January 2016;]] [[Whereas the payment of wages in the event of sickness by the UWV cannot be made until 1 July 2016;]] [[Whereas the UWV has made a reservation concerning the feasibility of this law;]] [[Whereas it makes more sense to introduce the law in its entirety at once;]] [[Calls on the Government to set the date of entry of the full law on 1 January 2017,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34073-18]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u165	Mr. Chairman. I shall now turn to one question and the motions for resolutions. Is it true that the bill leads to more jobs and the SP proposal leads to fewer jobs? I have not been able to calculate the latter, but that is in line with expectations. The Central Planning Bureau has indeed assumed that this bill will lead to more jobs. I come to Mr Klein's motion on item No. 15, about a new investigation. In this motion, the government is asked to reconsider its views on work around the age of AOW by examining various measures in full and incorporating them into an integrated vision that is actually and so on. I'm dissuading the motion. This bill removes obstacles to working after the AOW age. I have already talked about flexible AOW, the negative financial effects, the more complex implementation and the higher implementation costs. I have no reason to believe that an additional study, even if Mr Klein denies that there has been previous research, would produce other results. That's why I don't recommend the motion. In the motion in part No. 16 by Mr Klein, the Government is invited to continue its efforts on the Action Plan 55PlusWorks. I have allocated extra money to this action plan. It is now no longer 55-plus, but 50-plus. This must appeal to some people. The action plan is still ongoing. We must make the implementation a success. It is therefore premature to talk about extension at this stage. I advise against this motion. In his third motion, the motion in part No. 17, calls on Mr Klein to extend incentives for lifelong learning to 60 years. I advise against this motion. The training offer, more flexible work and tailor-made work are accessible to all. Mrs Bussemaker has good reasons not to use the credit for lifelong learning until the age of AOW. Each employee shall also be entitled to training under the Employment and Security Act. I advise against this motion. Mr Heerma has suggested that the element of the WAA should be included in the review of the law and to see if he is right or if I am. This is a fine suggestion I'd like to take over. Mr Heerma asks me to comment on the weighting of the two amendments. I have already said that, in my opinion, the balance will stand if they are both adopted. If you look at the practice of people who continue to work after the age of AOW, whether you do so after two, three, four or six years, you will see that, in most cases, no employee would want to invoke the chain clause against the employer's will. That's an assessment. I can't know this yet, because it's new law. I find the polder solution more charming, because then you can deliver tailor-made products by sector. This is also reflected in the written reply. However, I can live with this amendment, especially since I consider it balanced with the amendment tabled by Mrs Schouten and Mrs Vermeij. However, there is no scale that can calculate this on the gram. I shall now turn to Mr Krol's motion for a resolution. 18 in which the Government is requested to set the date of entry of the full law on 1 January 2017. I have already said in the first period that the sickness benefits are actually feasible. This benefit can only be claimed on employers from 1 July; the benefit is possible from 1 January. This bill has a long history. The Chamber has debated it in detail. Let us deal with this in particular. I therefore advise against this motion. The law is considered to be enforceable. I would like to thank the Chamber for its positive attitude and for the voting opinions, including those of the PVV, which are very constructive on this point. Thank you, Chairman, for your expert leadership.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-4.u166	I would like to thank the Minister for his reply and the spokesmen for their cooperation in this speedy second term. The votes on the amendments and the motions will be on Tuesday. I shall suspend the sitting until 2.30 p.m. After the suspension, we will continue with the arrangements for work.
