ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-03-eerstekamer-5.u1	I welcome the Minister of Finance to the First Chamber and give the floor to Mr Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-03-eerstekamer-5.u2	We're running a little ahead of schedule now, so maybe I'll have a little more time. Mr. Chairman. This is the second time in a short time that I have had the opportunity to discuss with colleagues and the Minister about the banking union, which started in the first phase exactly a year ago. Last time we discussed the agreement on the payment to the Single Resolution Fund. Now we are talking about the so-called implementing law European framework for the recovery and resolution of banks and investment firms. That is quite a mouthful, although it is in fact an abbreviation of the full names of the present legislative changes. I am pleased that you, Madam President, have spoken so well before. The Single Resolution Fund is again part of this. So we are still talking about the same banking union. So our objections are still the same. The European Banking Union offers a false solution to the problems created by a fully-fledged European financial sector. This is not sufficiently addressed, and risks are not sufficiently reduced and partly increased, while taxpayers simply continue to co-pay and stand as guarantor. We are pleased that the Minister acknowledged last time, although he initially referred to it as a theoretical calculation that the Dutch taxpayer contributes almost EUR 1 billion over a period of eight years. This is contrary to, for example, the French and German taxpayers, who remain free of it. Of course, it would be even better if this failure could be repaired one more time. According to the Minister, the Banking Union is well on the way to a stable European financial sector. However, as I have previously argued on behalf of my group, the 'too big to fail' problem remains above the banking union as a sword of Damocles. On 16 June 1933, President Roosevelt signed the Banking Act, better known as the Glass-Steagall Act. It radically split the American banks into a utility and a business segment. This has worked well for decades and contributed to keeping the banking sector serviceable to the real economy. But under great pressure from Wall Street, the Glass-Steagall Act was reversed in 1999 and nothing more stood in the way of mega-fusions. This created megabanks, which then had to be maintained nine years later with a lot of tax money. During the debate in the US Congress in 1999, Deputy John Dingell, whose father, alongside Senators Glass and Steagall, had also been involved in the establishment of the Banking Act, warned against the consequences of lifting the separation of utility and business banks. He declared in Congress, and I quote: "What we are creating now is a group of institutions that are too big to fail." He continued that "taxpayers will be asked to solve the problems that we are creating today, with the reversal of Glass-Steagall, and that will cost a lot of money." So this was in 1999. These prophetic words by the longest-sitting Member of the US Congress...... he has been there for 59 years............................................................................................................................................................................................................. The question arises: have we still not learned the lessons of history? In any case, in the opinion of the SP Group, these lessons have not yet been sufficiently incorporated into the banking union under discussion. In any case, the Minister acknowledges this in part. He also said in this Chamber that the building is not yet fully completed and that there is still a building block missing, which is related to the 'too big to fail' problem, namely the Liikanen report. In this context, given the scale and the fundamental nature of the problem of banks being too big to fail, I would prefer to speak of a'missing pillar' rather than a 'building stone'. In this light, the SP Group welcomes the amended Omtzigt/Merkies motion, which was adopted in the House of Representatives two months ago. As stated in the motion, the absence of measures to prevent new banking mergers within the current Banking Union means that governments remain implicitly guarantors of falling megabanks. The Minister is called upon to do everything possible to prevent the creation of new "too big to fail" banks. As far as we are concerned, this is a step in the right direction. On the positive side, the motion also calls for explicit inclusion of the criterion of balance size in the test. The motion asks the Minister to inform the House of Representatives of further steps within six months. I would ask the Minister to inform this Chamber directly. And can the Minister briefly describe how he intends to implement this motion over the next few months, or whether he may have already implemented it? In this context, we are curious to see what the Minister thinks about the balance sheet size criterion and whether an upper limit should be set. We would like to hear his views on this. I know that the Minister thinks that the instruments should be broader and that the discussion of preventing too big to fail should not be reduced to a fixed maximum percentage of the total market, but could he imagine such a quantitative standard, alongside other instruments? Does he intend to give effect to that motion in that regard? It goes beyond extending the merger test in the context of the evaluation of the Antonveneta Directive to which the Minister always refers. Does the Minister agree with me that the aforementioned motion goes further, that it calls on the Minister to make greater efforts than the one he has previously committed himself to? In the reply, the Minister refers in reply to questions put by my colleagues on 'too big to fail' to his letter of 1 June, but not to the aforementioned subsequent motion. I assume that the Minister has taken good note of this motion, so perhaps he can go into it again in this Chamber. In the meantime, therefore, the banking union is without this important pillar. Does the Minister not agree with the SP Group that, with the absence of this pillar, the construction now being built is still quite shaky? Can it really go through a hell of a financial storm? Or can the banks, which are too big to fail, only be held up by massive use of public funds, with all the social consequences? The Banking Union does nothing to prevent unwanted banking mergers. I think the Minister agrees with us on that. However, the Group of the Party of European Socialists fears that the banking union in its present form may even be an incentive for the formation of even larger banks and "too big to fail" at European level. In this respect, we also see the problem that the bail-in, due to all the exceptions that have been made possible, may not be sufficiently credible and can therefore encourage the risky behaviour of banks precisely because of the continued existence of an actual funding subsidy for banks. I am aware that the Minister does not like politically questioning the operation of the bail-in. In addition, he would like to point out to us the rest of the building such as increased capital requirements MREL et cetera. Let us not repeat that debate today. That's why I have a simple question for the Minister. Does the Minister agree with us that until further steps have been taken to prevent bank mergers and counter the "too big to fail" problem, there is a risk that the banking union will lead to further scaling up, to even larger banks? I have a few more questions about the deposit guarantee scheme that is also covered in the present law. Under the new 2014 European directive, an ex ante pool of only 1% and 2% of total guaranteed deposits is to be financed. A larger target size belongs to the national discretion, but the cabinet wants to reduce this small pot even further to a minuscule 0.5%. A request for this is, we understand, still before the European Commission at the moment. The Minister's argument is that the Netherlands has a very concentrated banking sector. Can the Minister explain this again? Does he actually mean that because all Dutch banks are "too big to fail" and they will still be saved, the deposits are actually already guaranteed? But is the Minister sure that we can go with such a small pot? Or does he prefer not to ask the Dutch banks over? Will he continue to insist on only 0.5% and will he therefore continue to press the Commission to allow this exception to the minimum standard of 0.8%? And does the Chamber have anything to say about this? Or does only the Minister, within the framework of the directive, decide what the size of the Dutch fund should be? And what exactly is the situation with regard to the implementation of this directive, which should have taken place before July? Can the Minister tell us what is going on with the Dutch banks filling the guarantee fund? Does this also apply, as for the resolution fund, to banks being allowed to deduct their contributions as costs and thus indirectly to the taxpayer? Finally, I wondered whether the Minister also read the Financial Daily this morning and, if so, whether he was shocked by the report on the front page that the Banking Union has made the work more complex for the national supervisor because the Netherlands Bank has difficulty in obtaining the information it needs to carry out its task in relation to the entire Dutch banking sector. Did that news come up unexpectedly for the Minister? And what does he think he can do about this? I'm closing up. The SP Group is not happy with this banking union, which offers mainly false certainty, but we continue to encourage the Minister to take a more far-reaching and effective approach to the financial sector at European level. More than any other sector, the banking sector needs the fundamental reforms that this cabinet has always been so committed to. In the meantime, we look forward to answering our questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-03-eerstekamer-5.u3	It is clear that the SP is not enthusiastic about the way the banking union is set up, but what I do not actually see in Mr Van Apeldoorn's speech is the fact that banks are not national players in this world. The whole international interlinkage, regardless of the scale of the banks, he goes all the way by. How does he think he's gonna solve that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-03-eerstekamer-5.u4	I thank Mr Postema for his question. I believe that the SP Group does not ignore this fact. The issue of the scale of European banks is precisely the problem in the eyes of the SP Group. Banks are not only "too big to fail" but are also increasingly "too interconnected to fail." Banks are intertwined, and the financial sector is incredibly intertwined, and that is at the heart of the problem. You will indeed have to tackle this, for example by what is called "structural banking reform" at European level. An initiative has now been taken to that effect. The European Council has recently defined its position on a proposal from the European Commission on this issue. As far as the SP Group is concerned, that is a small step in the right direction, but it is far from far enough because it will not achieve a real structural division between the utility and business sectors of banks. That is something we would like to argue for and I have also argued for earlier in this House.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-03-eerstekamer-5.u5	I've always learned from my mother that everything you put "too" for is bad. That is also the case with "too big" and "too interconnected." I am actually asking more about the substance of the argument. Knowing that in the world in which we live it is unthinkable that companies do not function and act across borders, you cannot therefore put a fence around it. Surely you can never limit the Dutch banking sector to, for example, purely activities in our own country?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-03-eerstekamer-5.u6	I don't think I said we should put a fence around the Netherlands. The SP Group is in favour of enhanced European supervision and is also in favour of a number of European rules, but the problem of "too big to fail" and "too interconnected to fail" is a problem that has been made possible by regulation, or rather the lack of regulation. So that is indeed the result of certain policy choices that have been made. It is not a natural fact that banks are so intertwined. It is not something we should assume as belonging to the globalising world. This has been the result of certain policy choices, of the deregulation of the financial sector, of the financialisation of the European economy. If the political will were to exist, it would be possible to do something about it, to let these banks be less intertwined with each other and to make them smaller and more national. There are also plenty of economists and other experts who are in favour of this, as I think Mr Postema is well aware. I would add that I would expect the PvdA to be an ally in this and that that party is also very concerned about too big to fail banks and about the intertwinedness of the European banking sector, which has taken a huge flight over the past two decades.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-03-eerstekamer-5.u7	Mr. Postema, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-03-eerstekamer-5.u8	I can wholeheartedly support here that you have to act on everything that you have too strongly that is in the banking system so.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. What surprises me is that that leads you to reject the Banking Union. In doing so, you suggest that solutions to this problem on a European scale should not be relevant and should in fact be a wrong direction. In our view, you are putting a lot of Dutch people who have savings, who have confidence in a bank, simply in the cold because you are not giving our minister and the cabinet the opportunity to bail in to ensure that the account reaches where it belongs, namely the risk financers of our banking system.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-03-eerstekamer-5.u9	I think this is a repeat of moves. Last time, in reply to Mr Postema's questions, I said that we were in favour of bail-in. The SP Group has even argued for this much earlier in the Lower House than other groups. We are in favour of bail-in and effective protection of the Dutch taxpayer, but in our opinion this banking union does not offer that. This banking union creates false security and is, in a sense, a paper tiger. This means that the Dutch taxpayer will eventually have to guarantee Dutch and other banks. Moreover, the Dutch taxpayer pays directly to fill the so-called resolution fund. For all these reasons, we are opposed to this banking union, but that does not mean that we are opposed to any form of European regulation in this area. I therefore think that with this banking union we leave the Dutch taxpayer and the Dutch consumer too much in the cold.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-03-eerstekamer-5.u10	Mr. Chairman. This bill combines elements agreed at EU level - a directive to be implemented - with proposals on which the Netherlands can decide, whether within framework conditions or not. My group is not happy to have proposals put forward in this way. After all, such a bundling can put this Chamber in a difficult position if, on the one hand, it does not want to block and even welcome the timely implementation of a European directive, but on the other hand it has difficulties with parts of the proposal. My first question to the Minister is therefore whether he is prepared to be extremely reluctant in future to submit proposals in this way. Then the contents. My group asked questions in the written round about a part of the bill for which the Netherlands has a certain freedom, namely the establishment of the national deposit guarantee scheme. The Minister's answers to our questions and those of the CDA and PvdA groups give us reason to ask the Minister for further clarification. A deposit guarantee scheme has two functions: protecting the account holder and reducing the risk of financial instability. Deposit guarantee contributes to the protection of account holders by paying their balance to account holders up to an agreed maximum in the event of bankruptcy. To promote financial stability, deposit guarantees contribute by reducing the risk that account holders withdraw their money from a bank as a precautionary measure because they take into account the possibility of the bank falling over. Such a run leads to a healthy bank being first in liquidity problems and then in solvency problems. After all, in order to be able to pay out the unexpected mass of funds requested, the bank must proceed to a "firesal": the mass removal of assets at a low price. When American sociologist Robert K. Merton, father of the Nobel Prizewinner economy Robert C. Merton, invented and introduced the concept of self-fullfilling prophecy, he called such a run on a healthy bank as an illustration par excellence. The prophecy, the rumor that the bank is falling over, leads to behavior that makes that prophecy come true. The achievement of these objectives, customer protection and stability requires the establishment of a deposit guarantee scheme. Internationally accepted principles apply, also accepted by, inter alia, the Bank for International Payments, the IMF and the International Association of Deposit Guarantee Insurance Institutions. The good news is that this proposal brings the Netherlands closer to these principles. And it's about time. As early as 2004 for the time of this minister, the IMF criticised the FSAP, the country analysis of financial stability, the Dutch deposit guarantee scheme. In particular, the absence of an insurance fund and risk-related contributions were a thorn in the eye. Researchers of DNB then added a shovel to that. They warned that the insured amounts were too low at a time when €20,000 was needed to ensure that customers were insufficiently protected and would run to the bank in the event of a rumor that due to the lack of a risk-weighted fund, foreign unsafe banks in the Netherlands could get a foothold, that the market share of excessive risk-seeking banks would increase and that the good banks would suffer from the evil. Neither did the governance, as the fund was not independent but part of DNB. Finally, there was netting, which did not protect customers and therefore did not help financial stability. I shall come back to that later, because that is an important point for my group. Despite this not malicious criticism, the Netherlands left the deposit guarantee scheme for what it was. The idea was that with us a bank would never go bankrupt and certainly not a large bank, and that a fund was therefore superfluous. We actually only had the system because the EU had to. Furthermore, the supervisory authority and the government had too large an eye for the competitive position of individual banks. Bank interest central: an example par excellence of regulatory capture, see the subsequent parliamentary survey results. The rest is history: Icesave entered the Dutch market, DSB collapsed, the excessive risk-taking of the large banks came to light. Only then did the Netherlands dampen the well, or rather, one of the wells: the guarantee was increased under pressure from the circumstances and to avoid even worse, first from €20,000 to €40,000 and later to €100,000, the amount on which it now stands. The rest remained as it was, and so to this day the Netherlands does not meet a number of good practices. As has been said, my group is pleased that, with this legislative proposal, we are finally moving in the right direction more than ten years after the previous warnings and more than seven years after the financial crisis broke loose. The EU directive obliges us to set up a fund with risk-weighted contributions. But my group wonders why we are not doing well at once and setting up the system in accordance with all the best practices. Surely it will not be because the Minister thinks that a bank will never get into trouble in the Netherlands? Or because he's being held hostage by the banking community? I would like to mention four points on which we have some doubts. Firstly, the risk weighting of contributions to and investments of the fund. At the beginning of September, this Chamber debated the risk weighting of contributions to the European Resolution Fund. The Minister then said in reply to the question as to why the range in the risk weighting at European level is so narrow: "The risk factor could have weighed more heavily, I agree with Mrs Prast." For the national fund, the Minister himself can determine the weighting of risks. That is why my group is curious as to why it does not opt for a heavier weighting. Then the fund's investments. In the debate on the resolution fund, I expressed concerns on behalf of my group about the fact that the directive does not explicitly exclude that the resolution fund invests in systemically relevant banks. At that time, the Minister indicated that the detailed rules were delegated to the Commission, but that he shared my concerns. He promised to keep an eye on this point. The resolution fund also applies, of course, to the deposit guarantee fund. I would add that you would not want it to invest in non-systemically relevant banks either. We in the Netherlands can decide on this independently. I ask the Minister whether he will rule out the fund being invested, directly or indirectly, in banks. In this context, I would like to point out that the large banks are heavily represented in the AEX. Moreover, my group would be in favour of the fund being held in an account with DNB. Then the size of the fund. The colleague of the SP also spoke about this. There are EU rules, but as the Netherlands we are free to opt for a larger fund. Then why choose the smallest possible fund? We would not want the banks' short-term competitive position to take precedence over the optimal design of the system. Thirdly, governance. The groups of CDA and PvdA also asked questions about this in the written round. As a requirement, I quote from the IADI: "The deposit insurer is operationally independent. It is able to use its powers independently from external parties to fulfill its mandate. There is no government, central bank, supervisory or industry interference that compromises the operational independence of the deposit insurer." In his reply, the Minister refers to the IADI, only independence of the banking sector and politics. In response to the questions of the CDA and PvdA groups, I would like to sum up in my words that DNB carries out the deposit guarantee, but that the relevant employees of DNB have different reporting lines. My group is curious whether the Minister will withdraw from internationally accepted best practices with regard to the independence of central bank and supervisor. Or does he not, but does he seriously believe that employees employed by DNB can be independent of DNB thanks to reporting lines? This Chamber is there to assess the quality of legislation. The proposal gives the impression to my group that the proposed adaptation of governance is intended to comply with the letter and not with the spirit of EU agreements, and that de facto the old governance remains in place. Our fourth and not least important point concerns the set-off. My group asked a question about this in the written round. We have understood this correctly from the statement of It appears that the Minister intends to apply the set-off. He doesn't have to do this. The relevant EU directive 2014/49 says, and I quote, "Member States may decide that in calculating the refundable amount the depositor's obligations will be taken into account." In short, it doesn't have to be and it obviously isn't the standard either, because it has to be decided separately. If the Minister wants to apply netting to the claims and debts of depositors, my group is very concerned because it undermines the effectiveness of the system. This applies both to the issue of customer protection and to that of financial stability. I would like to explain this on the basis of the example of a financially sound bank customer. He has a mortgage debt of €50,000, less than the value of the property. It also has a payment and savings account, with a total balance of €10,000. This bank customer always pays interest and redemption on time. Now his bank goes bankrupt. Of course, his balance of €10,000 is insured, thanks to the guarantee, but if the customer is settled, the amount will not be paid because it is offset by his mortgage debt. End of the song is that the customer is in liquidity problems: he now has a mortgage of €10,000 lower, but not a penny on the bank, and he can't even pay his interest and redemption on time! I ask the Minister if he thinks this is an example of "customer central." That's what we're asking the banks to do, isn't it? Doesn't the legislator have to do that? settlement is not only detrimental to the customer, but also to stability. With deposit guarantee we want to prevent the customer from getting his money from the bank at the first best rumor that it isn't right? But if he knows his credit's gonna be settled on his debt, he's gonna run. That's bad for stability. Even if the rumor is unjustified, the bank will face liquidity and ultimately solvency problems. Is it only bank savings, or all balances and debts? The importance of well-considered financial behaviour is often stressed in The Hague. When settled, will the Minister recommend to the financial consumer in the context of the set-off to place his salary account with another bank than where he has his mortgage debt? Is he going to demand banks to encourage central mortgage customers in the context of customer interest to keep their salary account with the competitor? At the moment, banks are doing the opposite. Although, unlike in the past, they no longer require mortgage and salary accounts to be transferred to the same bank. But they do give a discount of a fifth to a quarter of a percentage point on the mortgage interest rate to whoever does it. A quarter of a percentage point on a mortgage interest rate of 2.5% is a 10% discount! How's the Minister looking at this? The EU Directive also requires banks to inform the customer about the coverage of their deposits in the account statement. How does the Minister imagine this? Will there be any statement of account: the deposit guarantee scheme covers, under conditions, funds up to a maximum of €100,000? Or: "You have a loan of €10,000, but a mortgage of 50,000, so you won't get paid in the event of bankruptcy?" Furthermore, the Directive states that in the event of netting, customers must be informed before concluding a contract. If it is settled, does this mean that the set-off only applies to new mortgages and other loans, i.e. to contracts that still have to be concluded? This set-off is very important for my group. We're looking forward to the Minister's answer. A final point concerns the deductibility of the deposit guarantee premiums for the tax. The SP Group raised this point earlier in the debate on the Single Resolution Fund. Will the deposit guarantee premiums also become tax deductible? If so, is that the same as in Germany and France, or are they not deductible there? In the latter case, what does that mean for the level playing field in Europe we are pursuing? There is hope that a European system will be established in the future, with a European fund. However, it is not yet that far, and it may take some time. All the more important is that we set up our Dutch system as best we can. This can also serve as an example in the field of harmonization. This bill is a major step in the right direction, but I would ask the Minister why we would not meet all the best practices.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-03-eerstekamer-5.u11	Mr President, right after the summer recess, we discussed in our Chamber the Agreement on the transfer and mutualisation of the Single Resolution Fund contributions under the European Banking Union. This will create a self-financed back-up for banks that are in difficulty. In fact, this is a third dike, which, after the implementation of the Capital Requirements Directive, should provide solid bank balance sheets and the rules for recovery and settlement that are being discussed with the legislative proposal that we are discussing today. A large number of supervisors have been created and the tasks and powers of existing supervisors have been considerably extended. Together, this should prevent situations such as those that occurred during the 2008-2009 banking crisis in the future, including the possibility of contagion towards national governments. In other words, these measures are needed to minimise the chance that taxpayers will still have to step in to finance private banks and thus private risks in the future. They ensure that losses in banks are initially borne by the shareholders and creditors of the bank itself. However, this raises the question of whether these risks should not be addressed themselves. The Liikanen Commission made earlier sharp recommendations on this, in addition to those of bail-in which we are discussing today. Mr Van Apeldoorn also referred to this. Can the Minister indicate what Liikanen's recommendations have now been adopted? Which is the Minister's intention to take over and which is not? This implementation law implements the Bank Recovery and Resolution Directive and the Single Resolution Mechanism. The BRRD and the SRM together constitute the European framework for bank recovery and resolution. The BRRD applies to all EU Member States and all banks active in it, while the SRM only covers the significant banks and investment firms of the Banking Union. Despite this different scope, the national resolution provisions adopted on the basis of the Directive and the single resolution mechanism established on the basis of the Regulation should be implemented in accordance with and in conjunction with each other. To this end, the bill adds a new Part 3A to the Financial Supervision Act and Part 3 is significantly extended. With this addition and enlargement, the Wft has become particularly complex, which threatens to jeopardise the accessibility of the legislation. I have expressed it myself in different words as a memory game, where you know where the one card is, but you don't really remember where the second card was. We have already heard from the Minister in response to our written questions on this matter that he also considers a fundamental revision of the Wft to be necessary. We would like to see this confirmed again today and hear when we can look at these proposals. Mr President, where we regret the extent of the Wft's adoption, we would like to see the single rule book announced in 2012 more comprehensively. The European Central Bank has identified as many as 150 topics where it considers that greater convergence should take place before a single rule book is really in place. This concerns, among other things, the large business framework, liquidity requirements and the quality of the capital that banks have to hold. Verily, there is no thing that should be left untouched. Can the Minister indicate what the agenda is for an actual single rule book? The scope of the SRM is in line with the scope of the Capital Requirements Directive and the Banking Supervision Regulation respectively. Insurers are excluded from the scope of the SRM. Consequently, the instruments of the Directive cannot be applied to insurers and thus not to insurance parts of a financial conglomerate. For their settlement, the instruments currently in force, in particular the transfer system, are still to be used. The criteria for intervention also differ. Nevertheless, my group considers it desirable to consider to what extent a review of the scheme for insurers, in particular in order to bring it more into line with the banking regime set out in this directive, is desirable. As has been said, one of the main objectives of the directive and the regulation is to minimise the cost of resolving a failing institution for taxpayers. The bail-in instrument achieves that objective by ensuring that shareholders, holders of other core capital instruments and creditors of failing institutions suffer appropriate losses and bear an appropriate share of the costs arising from the resolution process, as would they in the event of the bankruptcy of the institutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-03-eerstekamer-5.u12	I wonder what exactly Mr Postema means by 'limiting taxpayers' costs as much as possible'. Can he explain that? As Mr Postema knows, taxpayers are paying directly to supplement the resolution fund. That amounts to nearly 1 billion over an eight-year period, as I said earlier. More fundamentally, the problem of the resolution fund itself and the bail-in instrument. As Mr Postema knows, all kinds of liabilities are excluded from the bail-in. Subsequently, the Board has the discretionary power to exclude further liabilities, for example where there is a problem of interconnection and where other banks would be affected by such bail-in because of the risk of contagion. This means that the resolution fund may be presented more quickly than is often proposed today. The resolution fund has only a very limited scope. In the end, the taxpayer is the guarantor. In the European directive on this subject, Mr Postema knows that it is quite clear to me that the cost to taxpayers should be reduced as much as possible. This actually means that it is now legal that the taxpayer has a role to play in the end. It is now on paper that the taxpayer can indeed be tackled, but we must reduce the cost to the taxpayer as much as possible. Perhaps Mr Postema could elaborate on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-03-eerstekamer-5.u13	I'd love to. I think it is factually wrong to say that the taxpayer directly contributes to the fund. That is simply not the case. I also think it is an incorrect picture that the Socialist Party is evoking. I think the link between the taxpayer and the fund is very wrong. Of course, governments are an ultimate backstop. It is also true that governments are ultimately funded by taxpayers. But the image that is being called up is exactly the opposite of what this legislation is trying to achieve, namely that it is not as it was in 2008 and later on that the taxpayer is on the blister, but that it is now the banks themselves and their financiers who take responsibility. I would like the Socialist Party to acknowledge in advance that this is an extremely important step to keep ordinary citizens in this country out of the wind when it comes to the problems of the banks, before suggesting that we are all doing things wrong with each other. That is the first part of your question which I would like to answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-03-eerstekamer-5.u14	Mr Van Apeldoorn, briefly, if you will.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-03-eerstekamer-5.u15	I'll keep it brief. Mr Postema and I agree on what the intention should be, namely to keep the taxpayer out of sight. The question is whether the practice now looks the same. Mr Postema states that the Socialist Party is wrong, but I would like to draw Mr Postema's attention once again to the specific situation in which the Dutch Government has decided that the contributions of the banks to the resolution fund remain deductible as costs. It could've been different. A law could have been filed to change that. I sincerely wonder why Mr Postema was not in favour or in favour of this. If the aim is to minimise the cost to taxpayers, why is it not repaired in the law, so that these contributions are no longer deductible as costs? That would have been a possibility, wouldn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-03-eerstekamer-5.u16	I see that as a slightly different, more profound question. This also applies to the fact that the government can at any time ensure that goods are no longer deductible in this country. We can decide that tomorrow for all kinds of companies. Fortunately, we do not, because there is also such a thing as the right to property and reliability of the government and what is more. The idea that a system of deductibility of costs, set-off and determination of profits, which has been fairly tested in the Netherlands, is not being used, is quite logical as such. The mere fact that this regulation leaves room to do so is an interesting point to be mentioned, but if the government chooses not to do so, then I would object to an image being drawn up as if it were to be used by the taxpayer. That is a completely wrong picture that you could expand endlessly on all kinds of business activities, whether you like it or not, like it or not, like it or not. It would be completely arbitrary if we were to say in each of these cases at the intercession of the SP: these are such bandits, let us not offer any deduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-03-eerstekamer-5.u17	I would ask Mr Postema whether it makes any difference to him that, in the case of deposit guarantee contributions which contribute, they are assigned to a fund to which only the banking sector can claim, or rather their customers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-03-eerstekamer-5.u18	That wouldn't matter to me. It is not a matter of principle. The second part of Mr Van Apeldoorn's question is at least as interesting as the first part. Of course I see his point. If you allow derogations, the scheme offers scope for this and if you allow discretion to the resolution authority, we must be careful not to cause the bail-in instrument to be hollowed out. I don't see that space in all sincerity right now. I also assume that it will be repaired very quickly if we have misanalysed the government, the parties on the other side and those here in this Chamber in the Netherlands and in Europe. At the moment, I do not see that we should call on the fund in no time, because bail-in would turn out to be an ineffective instrument. It would also be very strange, I think, if a finance minister, who has led the way in the European context in applying this instrument, were to give up on a regulation like we are discussing today. By the way, in the rest of my text, I will come back to that discretionary power. Mr. Chairman. I had stayed with the appropriate losses of bank financiers and that the idea is that "appropriate" should then be understood as a proportionate share. An appropriate part is referred to in the present legislative proposal as a proportionate part, in the sense that the loss of shareholders and creditors must be proportionate to the risk they have taken. The principle of "no credit worth off" applies: they must not be worse off than if the institution had been wound up in a regular bankruptcy procedure. The question, however, is to what extent this principle can actually be maintained objectively. To this end, the Directive and the Regulation include the ex post valuation by an independent third party, which is intended to assess the extent to which creditors of the bank have fallen into a worse position in resolution than if a bank had been wound up in a regular bankruptcy procedure. For entities not covered by the SRM, Article 3A:20 third paragraph of Wft provides for similar provisions. However, there is no impact of this provision, for example as regards the time limits and procedures to be set of objections and appeals. Can the Minister indicate how this is going to be foreseen? Another point in this respect is the discretionary power of the resolution authority........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ How much does the Minister consider that such discretionary powers, e.g. to exclude certain bail-in creditors, would be at odds with the principle of carrying an appropriate debt instrument, read: proportional part of the costs and of "no credit-worse off'? Can the Minister take care of my group that the combination of these provisions can lead to a multitude of legal disputes? Mr President, I come to my final point. We are on the eve of the privatisation of ABN AMRO. There has been a great deal of social and political debate on this in recent years, and this is now desirable given the far-reaching nature of the intervention at the time and of the letting go of the weather. An important part of the mode found to bring the bank back to the stock market is the adoption of adequate protection measures. However, neither the Directive nor the Regulation lay down a specific system of protection measures. The question is, therefore, what will happen to this if the bank were to find itself in a process of resolution. Is it conceivable that the resolution authority does not respect an affected protection measure? And, if that is the case, has our Minister ensured that the protection measures taken for ABN AMRO are designed in such a way as to minimise the risk of the resolution authority putting them aside? Mr President, as far as first time is concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-03-eerstekamer-5.u19	The next item is the continuation of the discussion of legislative proposal 34208, the Implementation Act European framework for the recovery and resolution of banks and investment firms. I give the floor to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-03-eerstekamer-5.u20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I was afraid you were going to read the entire title of the bill again, but you were satisfied with the short title.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-03-eerstekamer-5.u21	No, no, no. Once upon a time, that was never gonna happen again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-03-eerstekamer-5.u22	But it's a lot of admiration that you completed that whole title earlier today without fault. Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the contributions of the Members of Parliament and for the many questions they have asked. I'll try to get through that at a steady pace. Mrs Prast raised the fundamental question of whether so many subjects should be brought together in a single legislative proposal. Is that desirable, from the point of view of careful legislative preparation and given the position that the Chamber should have in being able to distinguish from the various proposals? We always have to deal with this matter carefully. There's always a trade-off. In this case, there were three arguments to choose to bring together more topics into one proposal. Firstly, there is a strong coherence of content between the proposals. Secondly, all proposals concern the Financial Supervision Act (Wft); they are therefore all amendments to one Dutch law. Thirdly, there was a strong convergence in time. It is true that it did not go all together and that there are other implementation periods, but there is a strong coincidence over time, because they are all building blocks of the banking union. That is why I made the decision to do it in one proposal. I hope that this balance does not lead to political problems in the consideration of this Chamber. Mr Postema has asked, completely overlooking this, whether it is not time to keep the Wft under review. I'd like to agree with him. I have already indicated that we are going to do the same; we are going to start a review process and inform the Chamber of how we intend to deal with it this autumn. The Wft has now become of extraordinary size and is also extremely complex. There is a real improvement in this, without losing the substantial profits that we have made in recent years in the area of financial sector regulation. This autumn we will come with a letter about the way in which we intend to kick the Wft and will inform the Upper House. De Financieele Dagblad headlined this morning that it has become more difficult for the national, Dutch supervisor DNB to do his work and collect information about the Dutch banking sector, as a result of the launch of the European Banking Union. I always thought that the First Chamber was a little more contemplative than the Second Chamber, but that head should also be discussed here. After all, Mr Van Apeldoorn asked a question about it. I happened to run into Mr Knot this morning and asked him if he recognized what he said. He told me I speak now under his guidance and hope he does not blame me for the fact that we have been starting for a year and it is really a set-up process. The ECB has the largest banking union directly under its responsibility, but the DNB is still an important link in that process. The exchange of information between the national supervisory authority and the European supervisory authority is crucial. If it doesn't go well, it needs to be improved. That's just the way it is. They serve the same interest. DNB does a lot of work for that European supervision. If information were to lead to bottlenecks, it would have to be resolved. This is also the case with the Dutch Bank. This concerns a few preliminary remarks. I'm zooming in on matter now. This is all part of the Banking Union. As Members of Parliament know, the banking union consists of several building blocks. As far as I am concerned, one of the most important building blocks is the joint capital requirements laid down in CRD IV. This means that we are going to strengthen the capital requirements and the capital floors for all banks to make them stronger. This is particularly important for the large banks. Like many parts of the Banking Union, this part is not finished. But, yes, you can often say from policy that it is never finished. However, a number of matters have been settled for the time being. There are a number of issues where minimum harmonisation needs to be further established. Some cases are settled by bank at a later date. The issue of capital requirements is also on the move on many fronts. But in relation to where we come from, the financial crisis, the banking crisis, the banks are now solid in all cases. The requirements will gradually be tightened up in the coming years. That's a big profit. The second building block is joint supervision. That's important because you see, especially in a country like the Netherlands, a small country with a relatively large banking sector with a high degree of concentration. We have three very large banks and one slightly less large banks that the distance between the sector and the large banks on the one hand and the supervisor on the other hand has not always been sufficiently large in the past. That distance is an important aspect to prevent regulatory capture. For this reason alone, I have always been in favour of it and the cabinet has been in favour of bringing the big banks under European supervision, on the basis of European standards. This brings me to the third building block, the Bank Recovery and Resolution Directive (BRRD). If it goes wrong with banks, we need to ensure that these banks are properly and unequivocally settled, at the lowest possible cost, at least as low as possible for taxpayers. For that, the principle of bail-in is crucial. I'm going to talk about some exceptions and the discretionary space that's still in there, but the bail-in is like a house. In all cases of bank resolution that we have seen in recent years, it has been applied, even though we do not yet have the toughest regime. That will only apply from 1 January. However, in a number of examples, in Austria, Spain and Portugal, and also in the Netherlands, with SNS, bail-in has already been applied. The first time deep bail-in took place was in Cyprus. That was a system shock at the time. However, it was also a reversal of the discussion on how to deal with banks that are in trouble. What are we gonna do now? All of this will be phased in over the next few years. The resolution fund will gradually be built up over the coming years. Capital requirements will be further filled in and increased. There is one building block in Brussels at the moment. This is about restructuring the banking sector and separating, either within the bank or outside the bank, that discussion has not yet been completed, from business functions, business banking, and utility functions. This is still going on. In October 2012, the working group led by Mr Liikanen presented a report on this subject, as several members indicated today. That report led to a proposal from the European Commission in January 2014, entitled "Structureal Reform of the Banking Sector' (BSR). The purpose of that proposal was to separate the activities of the most complex and largest banks in such a way as to shield deposits from potentially risky commercial practices. This is also the main theme of Liikanen's report: place trading on its own account and other significant trading activities in a separate legal entity if these activities are an important part of the bank. Two other important recommendations in the Liikanen report are contained in this legislative proposal, namely the need for realistic resolution plans and the build-up of sufficient bail-in capacity. On 19 July the Council established its position on the restructuring proposal, i.e. the BSR I mentioned earlier. It states that trading on its own account must be compulsoryly separated. For other trading activities, separation should be imposed by the supervisor if it appears that these activities are risky for the utility functions. The European pathway and the European discussions have not yet been completed. This will be done in the coming month in the trilogue phase between the Council and Parliament. So it seems that this is a climax during the Dutch Presidency. "Until a successful conclusion" I mean, Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Apeldoorn has drawn attention to this. He said that it is an important part of the banking union, which is still missing and needs to be done. In addition, he identifies the risk of mergers that can recreate banks that are too big to fail. This was also discussed in the House of Representatives. So then we've rigged up all kinds of defense lines and rescue funds and then the banks make the next scale jump and they're too big to fail again. Several motions have been tabled in the House of Representatives. You can see that on such a subject that everyone actually agrees on, so can the Minister himself. There will then be a kind of competition of who is the subject. I believe that there are now three motions. The first was from D66, honor who deserves credit. Later SP and CDA got over it. I now have a package of encouraging motions on this point. I believe that there is broad agreement in the Netherlands that it would be undesirable for that to happen. The effectiveness of the banking union will then be undermined. My lead is to settle this in the so-called Antonveneta Directive and to establish there that the supervisors should be able to prevent a merger on the basis of the criterion of financial stability, both the banking supervisors and the resolution authority....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... That is different from what Mr Van Apeldoorn said. He suggested that we should have one criterion with a balance sheet size and that it should never be greater than that balance sheet size. However, this was not the case in the Omtzigt/Merkies motion. There is the possibility for supervisors to take a test on financial stability effects and resolvability in the case of mergers and acquisitions. That's exactly my angle. It looks at the balance sheet size within the Banking Union, as it stands in brackets. When a new large risky institution is created, balance sheet size is, of course, a criterion, but it is also about the character of the bank and the degree of risk in the bank and so on. Then the supervisors should have the opportunity to counter that. In all cases, the bank's size translates into higher capital requirements or additional buffer requirements. Think of the discussion about total loss absorption capacity, which is going to apply to the very large banks. These are requirements for the bail-in capability that must always be present in such a large institution, in case it is necessary to bear losses. There is already a negative incentive for scaling up along that path. The bigger you get, the higher your capital requirements are. This is an additional wish I agree with. Mr Postema said that there are still many risks in the balance sheet. There are still 150 national discretionary differences between how bank balance sheets can be combined and how they are valued. That's true. It has identified the SMP within the ECB. That's been a very good exercise. We have looked very closely at what is still in national capital requirements from the past, things that central banks have allowed in the past or risk weights that were too low or sometimes in national legislation. A substantial part of that can be thrown out by the SMP, because it is now the supervisor, just to say it popularly. It can be replaced by European standards. Part of it concerns national legislation. Furthermore, the SMP can also act on this by imposing stricter capital requirements, for example. Part of this can be picked up by the European Commission by removing the differences and by harmonising national or European legislation, for example by means of the CRD4. This operation, I think, is a logical follow-up. Now that we have a banking union and there is one supervisor, that supervisor can see very precisely what differences there are in valuation and risk valuation in those bank balance sheets. We are going to get them out in the coming years, especially within the banking union. Mr Postema has asked a number of questions about how it is going to work. He asked how much I think the discretionary power to exclude creditors from bail-in would be at odds with the "no credit-worse-off" principle and proportional treatment. He asked if I could take care that there would be a multitude of legal disputes. I can't do the latter. Experience has shown that a resolution by banks usually involves a lot of legal disputes. The question is whether the way in which the resolution is to be adopted will then stand. How'd it go? The resolution authority may, on the basis of its discretionary power, exclude obligations of bail-in, but that is strictly claused. This is subject to a number of conditions. It can only be applied if bail-in cannot be applied within a reasonable time. Another condition is that exclusion is necessary to ensure the continuity of critical functions in core business lines. A third condition is that it can only be achieved by preventing widespread contamination. One last criterion: if bail-in of those liabilities causes more damage to the company than the bail-in produces. These four criteria are set out in the BRRD and will be further developed and framed in a delegated act to be drafted by the Commission. In all cases, the application of this discretionary power should never result in other creditors being treated worse than in bankruptcy. The "no creditor worst off" principle must therefore always apply. And then there will be legal proceedings.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-03-eerstekamer-5.u23	I see it as a task of the Chamber to live in it. What is it going to look like in practice, for example in the case of the important parties who might need to be exempted from bail-in? The example of the energy company is mentioned, and so there are a few more innocent examples. If you exempt other companies with such a resolution mechanism than the curator would do in bankruptcy proceedings that suggest this set of measures, we fear in advance that you are calling a lot of legal proceedings about you. I would like to believe that they will be there anyway, but it is about whether we, as legislators, can prevent them as much as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-03-eerstekamer-5.u24	We have, of course, provided guarantees in the establishment of this. One is that the resolution authority is independent of a central bank and must do its work independently. In Brussels it is a separate institution anyway, but also in the Netherlands it is guaranteed within DNB that the director responsible for the resolution is always able to take decisions within the Executive Board of DNB. He has power of perseverance over resolution decisions. With this you give him a power of attorney to do his work within this legal mandate, using that discretionary power, but of course very reluctantly. Why is that so important? In the past, financial stability and the fear of contagion have sometimes led to us not having made a deep bail-in and not having pushed the risks back into the bank. We therefore have a guarantee because of the way in which this has been set up. Another guarantee I can mention is that the European Commission, particularly DG COMM, is closely monitoring how banks are settled and whether European legislation is strictly enforced. Right now, those are the State aid rules. They will be the deeper bail-in according to the BRRD on 1 January 2016. If that were not to happen, it would be state aid, because it would seem that a bank or institution would be protected from applying these nasty rules. DG COMM monitors this from the Commission and is also involved in these decisions. The procedure includes the fact that the Commission can play its own role in this. And even so, in exceptional situations, this discretionary space must be available. The European Resolution Authority shall be accountable to the European Parliament. The European Court of Auditors can see if the institution is doing its job properly. There are therefore also guarantees of this kind. Account is taken of the smaller Dutch banks and the Dutch resolution authority through me to the Dutch parliament. If we consider that the discretionary area has been completely abused and that, for example, bail-in has not taken place at all enough, we can at least act on it politically. There are checks-and-balances.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-03-eerstekamer-5.u25	Thank you for that. Let me give you another example than the energy company. Suppose the Dutch tax authority has a claim on a bank. There's gotta be some pay. The trade-off may then be to do it neatly through bankruptcy proceedings, so that the tax authorities are reasonably in the forefront. He can also do it by means of a resolution mechanism, whereby another authority, in this case the resolution authority, can say on a European scale: we will continue to do so. Is it still conceivable that the Dutch Tax Administration will suffer damage?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-03-eerstekamer-5.u26	If the problems are big enough, if the losses that need to be settled are large enough, then at some point the claim of the Tax Administration will also be filed. So that's conceivable.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-03-eerstekamer-5.u27	If so, of course, the follow-up question is whether the tax authority would not have had a more favourable position in the bankruptcy proceedings in this theoretical case.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-03-eerstekamer-5.u28	That depends very much on how deep the bail-in is. In the event of bankruptcy, the tax authorities would be in the front and a bail-in would be relatively in the back. The Tax Administration is not entirely behind, but relatively later in the order of who pays the bill. Whether or not you are due depends on the losses that have to be settled. Bankruptcy also looks at what funds are still available and to whom they are still due. Therefore, the same "no credit worst off" principle should apply in both cases. The approach is just the other way around.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-03-eerstekamer-5.u29	However, I would like to return to the discretionary power of the resolution authority to exclude certain liabilities or creditors, to which the Minister referred in his reply. He claimed that the BRRD only allows it under strict conditions. One of those conditions is that it is not possible to bail out certain capital within a reasonable period of time. I would like to outline the scenario of a system crisis, or at least a crisis in which several major European banks are in trouble at the same time. Isn't that exactly a situation in which that might occur, where it will be very difficult to bail out certain capital within a reasonable period of time? Another exception is that of the risk of contamination. In his reply, the Minister did not give much thought to this. Perhaps this is a good reason to ask the Minister whether this is not the case with the large European banks and the intertwinedness I pointed out in my first term. Is that not the problem, that there is a risk of contagion and that this may be a reason for the resolution authority not to bail out certain capital when it is necessary?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-03-eerstekamer-5.u30	The answer to both questions is actually the same. These are typical problems that may arise. It is therefore also important that the resolution authority does not enter a bank for the first time when it is wrong, but that it reports to that bank from the moment it is set up to look at the structure of the bank: the way it is set up and organised, the way the bank's balance sheet looks and the risks it faces with other financial institutions. The resolution authority then says, on the basis of all this information and analysis, that it wants the institution to take a number of measures. It may consider that there are not enough bail-in capital elements on the balance sheet, so that it cannot bail-in enough capital to absorb losses if it has to come in once because there is a problem. Resolution authority may also see that all systems are interconnected and that all kinds of activities are mixed up or that there is a great deal of intertwining with other financial institutions. Then she says something must be done about it. That is the responsibility of the resolution authority. An important part of the work of the resolution authority is preventive. There is a need for a plan, and companies sometimes have to take measures in advance. There is nothing going on yet and yet the resolution authority can say: I want you to set up your business differently and I want you to do something about building up your balance sheet and the way your organisation is structured, because you are not settleable in this way. I think it is a good thing that we realise that an important part of the added value of a good resolution authority is that work in advance. If these problems are only discovered when the company is about to fall, you have big problems. Then it can be said that there is no way to send a message now, because it is all complicated and it is all stuck or because there is a risk of contagion on other financial institutions. The Resolution Authority should recognise this in advance and ensure in resolution plans that this type of problem is avoided.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-03-eerstekamer-5.u31	I think that the Minister and I are in complete agreement that prevention is better than cure. I would like to come back to the part of his speech on 'too big to fail' and also what I have called 'too interconnected to fail'. The Resolution Authority may use its power to examine the structure of banks in advance. However, if prevention is better than cure, then I think you could take an even better step, namely to split banks in advance into a business segment and a utility segment. The Liikanen report, or at least the directive that emerged from it, offers the opportunity to do so. However, this will not lead to a structural separation of the business and utility parts of banks. Can the Minister say again why this would not actually be a better solution if you wanted to avoid rather than cure; a genuine structural reform of the banking sector?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-03-eerstekamer-5.u32	I have just explained the substance of the Commission's proposal. By the way, the Dutch Government is broadly positive about this. She thinks it's a good move. I don't have the legal texts with me right now, so if I were to have the debate on this, I would be a little out of control. I have just outlined the main lines of the proposals. Own-account trading and other significant activities should be set aside in a separate legal entity, especially if that is a substantial part of the bank. That is the heart of this discussion. I think those are good proposals. Maybe the SP thinks they should be completely separated, that they should be completely separate. If you put something apart in a legal entity, you've isolated the risks. That's what this is about. We do not want to see trading on our own account or other business activities endanger the deposits for which the bank is responsible. I think that this proposal is well suited to that. We shall, of course, return to the Chamber at a later stage. I don't have all those pieces with me right now. Mr Postema asked about the relationship with the protection measure. Suppose any bank has a protection measure. These are all the big banks in the Netherlands, at least the listed ones. What happens to the protection structure when it comes to resolution is actually the question. Firstly, we have made sure that even when the shares are placed in a foundation and only the certificates are negotiable, bail-in can be applied. That would be a reverse question. It needs to be answered, too. It is therefore not possible for the protection structure to stand in the way of the application of principles such as bail-in and a good resolution in any way. The resolution authority will therefore draw the bank and implement that resolution, applying all the rules that exist. The real question is what happens when the resolution authority is done, the losses are settled, there has been restructuring, the balance sheet is strong again and the bank is privatised again. Is there another protection structure? And who's gonna decide that? That is the real question. At that time, it is primarily the bank itself and the shareholder. The shareholder will be the resolution authority in a future case. It will, of course, take a decision in conjunction and in consultation with the bank. In our contacts with the ECB, we have not found that the ECB has any objections to the Dutch use of listed companies to form a protection structure. The ECB has no objection to this in itself. Mrs Prast made an important point of the set-off. Fortunately, I can be brief about this, because there seems to have been a great misunderstanding. It is very clear: settlement is not taking place. There is only one exception to this, which I believe is justified. This exception concerns bank savings deposits or similar products, but nowadays these are almost always bank savings deposits linked to a mortgage. They are automatically settled in a case of bankruptcy, but that is right. Indeed, these bank savings deposits constitute a credit that has been built up and is specifically linked to a mortgage at some point in time, in order to repay that mortgage. Only in that case will settlement take place. In all other cases, deposits, even if there is a consumer credit or whatever, are paid out to the same bank within the prescribed time limit and up to the limit laid down by law to savers. Hopefully this will take away an important concern from Mrs. Prast. I hope that many of the questions she asked on this matter have been answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-03-eerstekamer-5.u33	My point is indeed about the set-off. We are discussing the implementation of the directive today. The Minister says: if the account is settled, this must be reported at the time when the customer enters into a contract. Is this true?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-03-eerstekamer-5.u34	Do you mean the...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-03-eerstekamer-5.u35	For bank savings deposits, the account holder is unable to withdraw the money.I assume that the account holder is reasonably unable to access the money................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ That does not alter the fact that if he sells his house, this effect will affect the purchase of a new home.... he will receive a lower mortgage... and on the loan scheme. I do not want to talk about this now, but I do want to talk about the fact that the directive says that customers should be informed in the event of set-off at the time of entering into the contract. I wonder what this means for all existing contracts at the time the account holders are not informed about netting.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-03-eerstekamer-5.u36	Two comments. I'll take a look at the officials sitting upstairs on the right. In recent years, even in the current situation, these assets, intended to pay off a mortgage at some point, have always been settled. So there has been no new situation on this point. Mrs Prast referred to the need to inform people about this in the new situation. That will have to be done. Consumers should be informed about how this works. Moreover, consumers under this directive should be informed at all about the deposit guarantee which they should take into account. It is a mandatory part that the bank concerned must communicate with its customer about what the European Directive means in this respect. That's gotta happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-03-eerstekamer-5.u37	I understand that, but I also understand that the existing contracts since 1 January 2014 have been subject to the effective date of settlement. The Minister intends to continue to apply this set-off, even though the Dutch banks are obliged to inform customers before signing the new directive. That was my question. However, I can understand it if there is no answer to my question at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-03-eerstekamer-5.u38	That answer will come; no worry about it. The answer is that the practice of set-off in this case is already taking place at the present time. That's standing practice. I am not sure whether customers have been reminded of this in the past when entering into a contract with a bank. However, I am sure that this will have to be done from 1 January, even in the case of existing cases, also because bank customers need to be informed about their rights in relation to deposit guarantees. This information goes with it. Mr Van Apeldoorn asked about the implementation and why we are too late. The deadline for implementation has indeed expired. By the way, I informed the House of Representatives in a letter. Of course, we have worked as hard as possible, but as I have already pointed out, I said in Brussels, when these decisions were taken, that the deadlines for implementation are very short. In some countries things are going a little faster there it is going well through the parliament, but we are following a serious parliamentary procedure with written rounds, a Second Chamber and a First Chamber. I have always said in Brussels that we are doing our best, that it will be ready on 1 January, but that an implementation period of six months for this type of legislation in the Netherlands is simply not possible. I cannot do the impossible, as I have also informed the Commission. Asked why the dgs are so small in size. I don't think it's that small. My analysis is that the role of the dgs through the bail-in principle, the high capital requirements and the advent of the BRRD and the resolution mechanism will be really different in the future. Large banks will often go into resolution. The risk of the dgs being called on at the time of resolution is very small. In addition, BRRS DGs have been given preferential status in bankruptcy legislation. The Netherlands has a very concentrated banking sector, as I have just said, with the vast majority of deposits with the four major banks. If they get into trouble, it will be a resolution. That is the important reason for us. This is also the logic behind the possibility provided for in the directive to maintain a smaller dgs for countries with a concentrated banking sector. We have therefore asked the Commission to be able to set up a fund of 0.5% instead of 0.8% of the guaranteed deposit base. The Commission is very reluctant on this point, which I do understand. We have not yet received a reply from the Commission. I conclude from that that is still difficult for people. I have been informed that they want to work this out first. The directive only states that an exception can be made to that 0.5% if there is a concentrated banking sector. The Commission says that it wants to work that out first and that we will only get a response afterwards. So we are still just keeping to 0.8%. That is what we will do. However, given the nature of the Dutch banking sector and the fact that we now have a BRRD, with all the instruments in it, the use of dgs in the Netherlands in practice will only concern the smaller banks.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-03-eerstekamer-5.u39	If I remember correctly, the amount of deposits is not taken into account in the calculation of the contribution to the resolution fund. To be honest, I understood that this happened because we would soon take the size of the deposits with the deposit guarantee fund. It seems strange to me that it is now being said that the deposit guarantee system is not expected to have to be deployed massively, because our banks will be covered by resolution, while the deposits may be deducted from the contribution by resolution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-03-eerstekamer-5.u40	The final size of the fund in the Netherlands is, of course, mainly determined by the size of the covered deposits. That's a misunderstanding. Do you have to build a fund from that basis of covered deposits that is 0.8% of that whole base, or is 0.5% sufficient? The question is what your banking sector looks like and what are the chances that you will end up in the dgs with your concentrated banking sector. The amount of deposits with the Dutch banks will determine the size of the fund in absolute terms.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-03-eerstekamer-5.u41	I would like to come back to the implementation of the directive on dgs. The SP Group does not in itself mind that the implementation deadline has not been met and that we have gone over the deadline. I am glad that Parliament is able to do its job seriously. In this context, I had a question about the target size of the deposition guarantee fund in the Netherlands. Does Parliament have anything to say about this? I understand from the Minister's letter to the House of Representatives that there will be a modified AMvB, in which this will be included. Did I get that correctly?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-03-eerstekamer-5.u42	I sent a letter to the Commission on whether or not I wanted to use this exception clause and informed the Chamber. The House of Representatives didn't advise me against that. She could have said by way of a motion: we do not want that, you really have to do 0.8%, 1% or 2%. But the Chamber didn't do that. It awaits the Commission's response with me. As long as we are not allowed to form a 0.5% fund, we must build up 0.8%. In Dutch relations, it works that if the parliament says to the government that it does not want something, we will, of course, reconsider. But the House of Representatives didn't make that point. We are therefore going to build a fund of 0.8% of covered deposits. Mrs Prast asked whether the funds in that fund might belong to banks. The DGs impose further requirements on the investment policy of the Deposit Guarantee Fund. The funds should be invested at low risk and sufficiently diversified. Mrs. Prast asked how to run things well. Well, it must be completely independent of the government. I am not talking about investment policy; that is what completely independent governance is about. It will be accountable. Within these two requirements in the directive that I have just mentioned, namely low risk and sufficiently diversified, it is up to the management of the fund to account for them in the annual report. This brings me to other issues relating to governance. Mrs Prast wondered whether the separate reporting lines were sufficient to guarantee the independence of the work. If that were the only guarantee, that would indeed be insufficient. The main guarantee is that the rules governing the dgs and the way in which it works and how the fund could be used are laid down in very detail. It is not the case that the resolution authority is at its disposal. Those rules of the game are quite precisely regulated in the legislation, the AMvB, the ministerial regulations etc. that are attached to them. Operational independence is thus secured. There can also be no influence of others; it must be strictly within the rules of the law. I have not found in the principles of the International Association for Deposit Insurers that a central bank should not do it. It happens in different ways in different countries. We are not the only country that has placed it with DNB. But once again, in DNB's governance, we have taken measures that the Director of National Resolution Authority has perseverance and can never be flagged back by, for example, the Director of Financial Stability and/or the Director of Banking Supervision. The Director of the National Resolution Authority has perseverance in these decisions and can never be blocked by the others. This is important to ensure independence and strict implementation in accordance with the law. Mrs. Prast called attention to the risk differentiation. We also had this discussion with the resolution fund. The main point here is that the Dutch banking sector is characterized by those few large banks. That's where most of the covered deposits are. Then we have a few dozen smaller banks. In my view, this small amount of Dutch banks justifies distinguishing between five categories of risks. I believe there are nine in the US, but we have five, which also has to do with the diversity of the nature of the banks. What part is risk-related now? In this case, 50/50: 50% is risk related. That percentage was much lower with the resolution fund. Mrs Prast and I found in a previous discussion on this issue that the part that was risk-related was too small for the resolution fund. Here's 50/50. Just like last time, attention has been paid to the deductibility. Mr Van Apeldoorn and the SP Group see this as a kind of government subsidy to the banks. According to them, the taxpayer pays for it anyway. Our approach is really a different one. The banks can just subtract their expenses. I believe that there are four countries that have not made this possible explicitly on this subject. All other European countries, including the Netherlands, do allow it to be deducted. We haven't changed the policy. This type of cost may be deducted from banks in the Netherlands. It really should have been an independent initiative to make that impossible and we did not. These are costs for companies in the coming years and they may deduct them from their taxable profits. The SP doesn't agree with that. You can also increase the bank's tax, but that's the same thing. We didn't do that, we put the bank tax in place, which is just being paid nicely. In addition, banks are allowed to deduct their costs. That goes for this too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-03-eerstekamer-5.u43	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for answering our questions. Let me start with the final point: the taxpayer will continue to contribute to the payment, because he or she will pay for deductibility by filling the resolution fund. The SP Group believes that this should not be seen as normal operating costs. Of course, we are not opposed to deductibility in general. However, these are not normal operating costs; banks must contribute to a resolution fund set up to save those same banks when they get into trouble. We rather see it as a kind of reservation for the future and not as regular operating costs. Moreover, in our view, the Minister is wrong to assume that keeping costs low for banks is a good thing for the Dutch banking sector. In our view, this is not the case and it would benefit financial stability if these costs were higher.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-03-eerstekamer-5.u44	It shouldn't get any weirder. So we are going to make the costs for the banks as high as possible to provide all Dutch people with excellent banking services. Is that really what Mr Van Apeldoorn is saying?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-03-eerstekamer-5.u45	I would like to answer that. I did not say that we should make the costs as high as possible. I can only see a tendency to think in the policy of the government, which also applies to the deposit guarantee scheme, that if we make the costs too high for the Dutch banking sector, this will undermine the competitive position. In our view, however, financial stability must be at the forefront. We should be less concerned about the competitiveness of the Dutch banks and more about financial stability.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-03-eerstekamer-5.u46	That actually sounds different. We also share with the SP that the argument of competitiveness is used, but sometimes too imprecisely, not to want things. However, this is quite different from willingly taking cost-enhancing measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-03-eerstekamer-5.u47	In this discussion I am on Mr Van Apeldoorn's side, for the following reason. The fact that banks are too big to fall, and therefore have a certain guarantee from the government, makes it possible for them to grow excessively. They can raise too cheap money. To compensate for this is not to make it as expensive as possible, but to bring it towards the right price compared to the fact that we are subsidising them. So if Mr Postema says 'It shouldn't get any crazier', then I'm gonna give it up.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-03-eerstekamer-5.u48	I would like to thank Mr Prast very much for the excellent answer to the question put to me by Mr Postema. I would like to continue with this with regard to the deposit guarantee scheme. I asked the Minister whether contributions to the deposit guarantee fund would also be deductible. I don't think I got an answer to that. The SP Group insists that the banks in Europe are too big to fail, and also to a large extent too interconnected to fail. That is the problem of interlinking and the consequent risk of contamination. Mr Postema has previously suggested that this is the case in the modern world, but I insist that this is the result of certain policy choices that have been made. These policy choices could also be made differently. This does not mean that we are putting a fence around the Netherlands, but that we are opting for a different policy and a different arrangement of our financial system.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-03-eerstekamer-5.u49	That wasn't suggested by me. I said that we are dealing with banks operating internationally and that this calls for international regulation, as we see or should see in many other sectors. The fact that there are too-big-to-fail banks is a concern that we share with the fraction of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-03-eerstekamer-5.u50	I am glad that Mr Postema and I share a great deal of concern. Again, it's not about putting a fence around the Netherlands. We recognise that banking activities are international. As long as they are international, you will also have to come to international regulation. Nor are we opposed to that. It is about what regulation is about. Moreover, the fact that banks are such international and global players is also the result of certain policy choices. You could also pursue policies that reverse this. I have already given the historic example of the Glass-Steagall Act, as a result of which banks could become less large than would otherwise have been the case. As a result, there has been a structural division in the United States between the utility part and the business part of banks. This has made the US banking sector serviceable to the real economy for decades. The sector was more serviceable than would otherwise have been the case. We could now also make this choice in Europe. That is what the SP Group is advocating. It calls for a genuine separation of banks as a necessary part of tackling the too-big-to-fail problem, because prevention is better than cure. That brings me to the Omtzigt/Merkies motion from the House of Representatives. It calls on the Minister to address the issue of too-big-to-fail. I thank the Minister for his reply. I understand that he continues to argue in favour of a revision of the Antonveneta Directive. This concerns the merger test, which will take into account the size of the balance sheet. It is true that the motion does not state that this should be the only criterion. It's by the way. However, the motion points out that DNB President Knot is also in favour of setting an upper limit on banks. So I ask the Minister once again what he actually has against a quantitative test, alongside other criteria. After all, one doesn't have to rule out the other? Finally, I come back to the deposit guarantee scheme. The Minister states that the size remains at 0.8% for the time being, but that the aim remains to bring it down to 0.5%. I was not convinced by the Minister's reply that this is the right way forward. As far as we're concerned, we're sticking to a higher standard.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-03-eerstekamer-5.u51	I have the impression that Mr Van Apeldoorn is at the end of his second term. I am very curious if he can tell us what the SP intends to do with this bill, especially since a lot of points have been mentioned by the Socialist Party which are of particular relevance, but are not part of this bill. There are also a number of things that might have been better in the opinion of the SP, but which should not, in all honesty, prevent us from adopting a bill that protects savers in this country.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-03-eerstekamer-5.u52	It will be a repeat of the debate on 8 September, but perhaps that is a good thing. In the eyes of the SP Group, this banking union does not provide sufficient protection to savers and consumers in the Netherlands and beyond. It does not provide the financial stability it is intended to achieve. That is the first objective of the Banking Union. The second objective is to keep the taxpayer out of sight. In our view, this objective too is not sufficiently served. However, it is said that people, you can go to sleep now, because we have a banking union that will ensure that the banks stand up and that your savings are safe. In the meantime, however, the same banking union offers European banks the opportunity to become even larger on a European scale, which will only increase the too-big-to-fail problem and the problem of intertwining. In other words, our fear is that the problem will not be solved, but that, by pretending to solve it, there is a risk that the problem will get even bigger.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-03-eerstekamer-5.u53	Finally, Mr Postema.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-03-eerstekamer-5.u54	Thank you very much for this space, Mr. Chairman. I do not believe that this is a solution to everything. I did not hear the Minister say that, and you will certainly not hear the Labour Party say it either. In fact, I myself indicated in the previous debate on this issue that banking crises are of all times. They're gonna stay that way. The question is whether this legislation offers ingredients that properly protect our savers from what has happened to them in recent years. And then I think that unfortunately the SP seems to be going down on the principle that the best is the greatest enemy of good. I would like to repeat what I said in the previous debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-03-eerstekamer-5.u55	I have not heard a question from Mr Postema, but an opinion. I want to leave it at that. He clearly has a different opinion on the banking union than we do. As far as we are concerned, it is not a question of letting the best be the enemy of good. The banking union as it stands does not, in our view, represent that good.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-03-eerstekamer-5.u56	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for answering our questions. Our most important point was the set-off. My group is extremely pleased that it has now been made clear that, except in the case of bank savings deposits, there will be no settlement of deposits and liabilities from the account holder in the future if a bank goes bankrupt and the deposit guarantee scheme enters into force. We are very pleased about this. My first question was about the combined presentation of legislative proposals. The Minister said that there are a number of good reasons for this: the subject matter, the time pressure and the timing. We understand that very well, but at the same time we do need to be able to have a thorough exchange of views on some elements rather than under pressure of time. Especially since we are talking about an improvement here, it was just about the best and the good thing about it is a pity that, under the time pressure of implementation, we cannot give this the attention we would like to give to it. We accept that for now. We've been talking about the investments. The Minister has given a formal answer, namely that he is not about it and that he delegates it. Would he be able to comment on the desirability or unwelcomeness of possibly investing the deposit guarantee fund in Dutch banks? I do not think I am completing my five-minute speaking time, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-03-eerstekamer-5.u57	You don't have to.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-03-eerstekamer-5.u58	I think I have already raised my other points in interruptions. I just do not yet see whether I am happy with the answer to my question as to how banks will be able to comment on the account statements of the account holders on the deposit guarantee scheme. I am referring in particular to the following. If the information on the DNB's website and in the Wft can put all those who deal with this file in the First Chamber on the wrong track, then it would be good to give banks clear guidelines. I will advise my group to vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-03-eerstekamer-5.u59	Minister, can you answer this jump-off to questions from the second term immediately or do you need a suspension?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-03-eerstekamer-5.u60	Mr. Chairman. I dare to do it right away. I do not have the illusion that I can convince the SP group about the banking union. By the way, I've had that illusion for a long time. I'd hoped it would work anyway. In the banking union, there is a change in the approach to the financial sector. That's a cover that the SP really should appeal to. She could say that it is not good enough yet and that she still lacks a number of parts. I agree with that on a number of points; indeed there are still parts missing. On other parts we are going to take further steps in the coming years. The real change of mind is next. Because we are creating a European playing field, a European standard and a European supervisor, we can really make higher demands on our banks. This means that banks are already more stable than at the start of the financial crisis and will become even more stable in the coming years. This is urgently needed. We could not have done this as the Netherlands alone. That goes all the more for the bail-in rules. During virtually the entire banking crisis in Europe there is a bail-out. Countries with huge public debt are now left behind. Think of Ireland and Spain, but also the Netherlands. Our public debt has also risen by many tens of billions as a result of the actions to keep our banks alive. That's all bail-out. We reversed that. From now on, the banks will do so themselves, because they have own funds. Investors in the banks do so because there are sufficient bail-in capital deposits. The capital providers and owners who take the profits in the good years will also have to be able to bear the losses in the bad years. If the SP can't support that anymore, I'm gonna lose my way ideologically. I'm gonna get really lost. I myself have not lost my way yet: I have a clear vision of what is economically sensible and just. This is what we do with this movement: capital requirements, collective supervision and the approach of banks in resolution with bail-in. There will be two funds, one resolution fund and one dgs fund, which will be filled up in advance by the sector itself. Shouldn't that appeal to the SP? These are all fundamental and fundamental changes in the way government relates to the banking sector. Anyway, I don't have the illusion that I'm gonna convince the SP anymore. In slight confusion, I must accept that. Mr Van Apeldoorn does not consider the deductibility of the levies to be correct, as it gives priority to competitiveness over financial stability. Of course, that's not true at all. The funds are simply being built and filled over the next few years. We do not alter that at all for reasons of competitiveness. However, banks, like other companies in the Netherlands, are allowed to deduct costs before paying taxes. So we should have actively decided that banks should not do this now because we have to punish them or something like that. That wasn't the cabinet's approach. The funds are just being filled up. Financial stability is at the forefront, not competitiveness. Mrs Prast has a different reasoning on this point, which I am surprised about. Furthermore, we are quite in agreement, but on this point she says that we are still subsidising the big banks. Because of the expectation of bail-out, they are cheaper in their funding than other banks, and they want to skim that off by taking this deductibility away from them. That's really a new point of view for D66. The Tax Plan is currently being dealt with across the street. Amendments can be tabled there to remove the possibility of deduction from banks. That amendment is not yet there, certainly not from D66. I'd say that's a really undesirable approach. We'll wait and see. However, this reasoning is not mine. Finally, I note that Mr Van Apeldoorn has made a warm plea for the US banking system. There is really more to be said about this, but I do not think that the President is giving me the time to do so now. He also asked what I have against a quantitative test when determining whether a merger is desirable and whether the size of the bank can be looked at. Then he misunderstood me. I'm sure that's okay; of course. It is about the size of the new institution. But not only that, it is also about the type of institution and the risks identified in the banking balance sheet. So both, both qualitatively and quantitatively, are relevant. I think we can agree on that. Nor is it prohibited to agree with the cabinet on parts. At least I agree with the SP on this part. Both, risks and size of the bank balance sheet, are important in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-03-eerstekamer-5.u61	I have a short question about the quantitative standard or test. The Minister is not against that. I'm glad to hear that. I actually meant that you should also set the upper limit as an absolute upper limit. A bank can't go above that. In my view, the Minister means that he is looking at the size and possibly weighing against other criteria. If a bank does go above that, it may be compensated by the fact that it is less problematic in other respects. That's a difference, I guess.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-03-eerstekamer-5.u62	If a bank is just really big, so a megabank is, then all the instruments we have could fail. All I have said is that if a bank is very large, very large capital buffers will also have to be built. There will therefore also have to be a very thick layer, in absolute terms, of "bail-inable" capital instruments on the bank balance sheet. However, we agree that it would still be desirable for the banking supervisor, from the point of view of what it means for the stability of the system and the effectiveness of our stability instruments, to be able to check whether he thinks a merger is desirable, as a competition authority considers from the point of view of competition whether the size of an institution in a sector is desirable. Strictly speaking, this is not now regulated and the banking supervisor does not now have that competence. We agree that this competence must be created. The supervisor may look at the size of a bank's balance sheet, but of course I will continue to say 'risks', because a relatively and apparently small bank created can still be very, very risky. Even then, a merger is not desirable. So it's really about those two things together. Mrs Prast asked me about the desirability of investment policy. The directive refers only to diversity: investment policy needs to be diversified. But let us be quite clear that, in the spirit of the directive, the fund becomes vulnerable in times of financial crisis itself, at the moment when it would invest in banks to a significant extent or even in part. Of course you shouldn't. So if you're asking me if I think it's desirable, I'm saying no. I understand the letter of the directive in this way, so my interpretation of its spirit is: do not do that and beware of this kind of risk at the time of a financial crisis. Finally, I would like to address the issue of consumer information. My understanding of this is that the financial institutions must actively communicate to the consumer at least once a year what they are entitled to in the context of deposit guarantee and what is included and what is not. I'm gonna take a look at my associates upstairs, see if that's true. No one's nodding. If that's any different, I'll let you know. I thought it was.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-03-eerstekamer-5.u63	I'm here to deal with the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote? That's the case. Then I suggest we vote on this bill next Tuesday.
