ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-5.u1	Mr. Chairman. The immigration disaster of Europe and the Netherlands is getting worse every day. Instead of stopping and sending migrants back to Europe's external borders, they are simply all being brought to European ports. The EU has to do that. He's promoting this, too. Every day we see the consequences of this bizarre open-door policy. Migrants travel from Italy massively to Northwest Europe. The situation is now completely out of control in our own ports. The Telegraph reports on this today. Illegals who want to go to Great Britain show up in increasing numbers in Hoek van Holland, Rotterdam and IJmuiden. The chaos we saw recently in Calais is now coming to the Netherlands. Truck drivers face violence and threats. More and more illegals manage to go from our country to England. How is it possible that in our country no strobe will be put in the way to enter and travel? Why does this cabinet keep the gates wide open? Even now that our ports are turning into illegal whales, there is not yet a start of a little effort to tackle this. This can't go on like this, of course. The PVV once again calls on the cabinet to close our borders immediately. Get out of Schengen. No longer allow people who are not allowed to be here and have no business here to be free. The Netherlands therefore needs border controls again, not only to keep illegal immigrants out of the door but also to stop the asylum influx. Just look at the costs: each asylum seeker costs more than €36,000 per year. The cabinet continues to write that blank cheque, no matter how many asylum seekers there are. Meanwhile, our own elders can't even go to nursing homes anymore. It's crazy to prioritize. Change this. Stop the influx of illegals. Stop the influx of asylum seekers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. Mr Fritsma drew attention to the reports on the smuggling of human beings which is now also taking place via Dutch ports, in particular Hoek van Holland, towards England. The cabinet takes this issue very seriously. This is also the reason why Mr Dijkhoff, the responsible State Secretary, is currently in European consultation to ensure that appropriate measures are taken, both at the external borders and measures aimed at the roll-up of the networks involved in trafficking in human beings. After all, in order to tackle it effectively, you must, of course, also be able to tackle the organisations behind it, the mafia structures behind it. In my opinion, Mr Fritsma's suggestion to close the borders in order to protect truck drivers does not make sense. I agree with Mr Fritsma that it is very threatening for truck drivers to become the targets of either human smugglers or individuals trying to climb into the cabin individually. Unfortunately, there is now and then a threat of violence against truck drivers. However, these people, together with Mr Fritsma, will not argue in favour of closing the borders, because that would mean that there is no more money to be made. Their work is that they transport internationally. The Netherlands lives off international trade. You have to do targeted checks, and so does the Royal Marechaussee. Good agreements must also be made, particularly with France and England, the countries which also play a major role in this chain. Mr Fritsma stands up for the truck drivers. That's what's good for him. However, we would really not be doing these lorry drivers any more: we would do them great harm if we closed the borders again and organized huge controls there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-5.u3	The Minister pointed out that there were European consultations on this issue. That's exactly the problem. The cabinet is dependent on Brussels. The cabinet is making itself dependent on the EU. The EU ensures that all these migrants, that all those asylum seekers, that all these illegal immigrants are brought to Europe and travel from Italy to the Netherlands. That's the EU today. The cabinet remains behind that EU and therefore ensures that the EU, that the Netherlands remains one big sweet raid for anyone who wants to come here, for anyone who wants to. That is precisely what is no longer sustainable. That's why I'm making my call again. Make sure this stops. Make sure that we get asylum and admission policy back in our own hands instead of leaving it in EU hands. Make sure that we close our borders, that we simply do not allow illegal immigrants and asylum seekers anymore. The Minister can come up with the fear that our business is going to die, but that is, of course, nonsense. Take a country like England. England is not part of Schengen. It's not like that's where the trade collapses all at once. That's bullshit, of course. The Minister should not come up with any excuses to defend the open border policy. He just needs to make sure those boundaries close. What more must be done now than the chaos that we are seeing today, now in our own ports? That's the question he needs to answer. When will the cabinet intervene? How many more tens of thousands of illegal immigrants and asylum seekers are to come?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-5.u4	Mr Fritsma does not seem to think that an approach with other European countries should take place. Mr Fritsma will agree with me that most of the flow towards the Netherlands across the Mediterranean is being made by other EU countries and that it is therefore necessary to take action together with those countries to tackle this flow. Mr Fritsma also undoubtedly knows that the Italian mafia plays a major role in these flows. We must then identify with Italy who are the key figures, who are in Italy, who are to be arrested in the Netherlands and who. With regard to the closure of borders, Mr Fritsma refers to England, which is not a member of Schengen. That does not mean that England is not confronted with illegal immigrants entering the country. It is a very unfocused measure which is damaging the truck drivers, for whom Mr Fritsma stands up, and which is proven to be ineffective.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-5.u5	Mr. Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-5.u6	Is my time up, Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-5.u7	Can you ask another question in nine seconds? I think your time is up.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-5.u8	I can make it clear in nine seconds that the cabinet should not continue with the open border policy. No one will benefit from that, not even the truck drivers. No one will benefit from this chaos. The PVV continues to fight against mass immigration. We will continue to do so here and from now on we will do so with our new group in the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-5.u9	I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-5.u10	I did not hear a supplementary question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-5.u11	We certainly have a big problem to deal with. We see this in Calais, in Hoek van Holland and in other ports in the Netherlands. That is what we need to think about together, and that is what is happening today. I would like to inform the Minister that we have to work with central reporting points at the southern border of Europe. There will be a European summit next week. Does the Minister agree with the Christian Union that the only solution to arrive at a fair distribution is central reporting points in Greece and Italy? That is where the redistribution must take place.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-5.u12	The problem is too complex to say that there is only one solution. The solution concerns the source countries, criminal organisations, registration and the different ways in which European countries deal with asylum applications. Unfortunately, therefore, I cannot promise Mr Voordewind that I will only see one central solution and that there is only one solution that the Netherlands will be committed to. However, I can promise Mr Voordewind that our full commitment will be to a good approach in Europe with a very targeted deployment of the military force where necessary. We have agreed with the transport sector that these companies will pass on to us where the problems arise but that they will also ensure that the lorries are locked up properly. It is a combination of European and national measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-5.u13	I believe that we are dealing with the effects of a European asylum migration system which is unsustainable and which, in my view, is bankrupt. You need to invest in safe ports in the region, so that you can actually keep the asylum system out of the sky. Then you stop that illegal migration flow. In view of the short term and the development of the illegal flow of migrants from Calais to Hoek van Holland, would the government be prepared to intensify the mobile monitoring and immigration controls we exercise, especially at the borders of Belgium and Germany? In this way, we prevent drivers from eventually being saddled with illegal migrants and fined in England.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-5.u14	Mr Azmani is right in saying that the more intensive controls of the Marechaussee must not only take place in ports, but also in advance. These could be parking spaces where smugglers are active. That is precisely why we have agreed with the transport sector, Transport and Logistics Netherlands that they will provide information when they notice that a parking space is being used for this purpose or that a flow of electricity is being shifted from one port to another. Then those mobile teams of the Royal Marechaussee can be targeted where intervention is needed at that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-5.u15	Thank you for your answers and for coming to the Chamber for the various questions.
