ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u1	I would like to welcome the Secretary of State. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mrs Keijzer on behalf of the CDA. Speaking time is exactly four minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u2	Mr. Chairman. Finally, the House of Representatives wants to discuss the problems at the Social Insurance Bank. I would like to thank all those budget holders and other stakeholders who, through Twitter, have put pressure on the coalition parties under #pgbalarm, so that this is now on. The Secretary of State has always said in all legal proceedings that people would not suffer from all the changes. Still, things are getting a little crazy right now. There have been several signals: such as a letter of fire from the VNG on 22 July and the General Court, which indicates that without the availability of the necessary systems and data in time, there are major consequences for budget holders. Why did the Secretary of State decide to allow the introduction to continue? Then it was January 1st. Deadline followed on deadline. The Secretary of State and the SVB gave guarantees, but unfortunately that didn't help. Yesterday, the entire system was out at the SVB again. We say that too many tasks have gone over the fence in too short a time and that the SVB's IT system is not in order. In 2012, with our support, it was decided to introduce the drawing right. We've been three years. What happened in the meantime? I'd like to get a timeline from the Secretary of State. Pilots would have been run with the IT system; but what system? The September discontinued multi-scheme system, costing 44 million? Or the computer system with which we are now working, which is causing all the problems? The Secretary of State writes in the letter of 28 January that this system provides a basis. It's not just a base, is it? It's a complete operational system, isn't it? The Secretary of State is responsible for the implementation of all changes made. He promised that it wouldn't bother people. What bothers me and many is that now that things are going wrong, he's throwing the people, the budget holders, the blackbird. It's like blaming the train traveller when the train's too full. You shouldn't have taken the train. Does the Secretary of State not think that words of regret about the way things are going would have been more appropriate? Does he still want to apologize? Notifications coming in via my hotline Report to the Mona about the problems at SVB are often about contracts that have been lost, employees who are not aware of the content, contracts that do not fit into the system and overloaded telephone numbers. We are talking about vulnerable people with physical, intellectual and psychological disabilities. Their caregivers are vital. These have worked and have to receive their salary. They shouldn't be at the cash register and then find that they can't pin their messages because the SVB doesn't pay. Do you agree with me, Secretary of State? If 59,000 healthcare workers have been paid by now, 170,000 have not yet been paid, assuming we are talking about 220,000 healthcare contracts. But is this number correct? Per Balance and Each (in) doubt this. The second emergency scenario that is now to come into effect concerns the rapid response team, which can be advanced, I say: can proceed. The CDA Group would like to know exactly when and who will be eligible. Where can people come in? Or is this system gonna get stuck, too? Now what? A practical solution is needed, and it is possible. Give the budget holders on advance the money associated with the first quarter of 2015. This solution is based on people rather than systems. We challenge the Secretary of State to do the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u3	That was just in four minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u4	Mr. Chairman. "As of 1 January 2015, a system will function to ensure that clients can pay the care and support they need from the pgb." That's what the Secretary of State said last year. Today we are talking about the problems that people with a pgb face. They cannot pay out their caregivers and are in great uncertainty about the budgets. The reaction of the Secretary of State is: I understand very well how annoying it is, but fortunately for most people this is not the case. If I read the letter correctly, I can see that at least 20,000 people are still in uncertainty about whether their health care contracts are going to be approved, but 170,000 health care contracts have not been paid out. That's three quarters of the number of care contracts. How can the Secretary of State say that this is not the case for most people? The Secretary of State previously indicated that people with a pgb would not be affected and would have to be able to pay for their care. That has proved to be a worthless promise. It's a mess. The Secretary of State says you can call the SVB, but unfortunately the phone is not answered there. Send in the care contracts, says the Secretary of State, but unfortunately they haven't arrived. Even for people who have paid their healthcare providers voluntarily through the Social Insurance Bank for years, it is chaos and the health care contracts and agreements are gone. How is this possible? There are 1,000 extra employees employed and yet it is not arranged. A warned person counts for two, but does that also apply to this Secretary of State? I'd like to know exactly how many times he's been warned by who and what he's done after that. I see that he was warned on 21 May by the General Court and on 22 July by the Association of Dutch Municipalities, the large municipalities and the 32 large municipalities afterwards. He was warned again by the General Court on 5 November. We have just received an ICT report dated 15 October which also contains alarming issues. An emergency plan came into effect on 16 January, but this does not lead to a solution. That's why we're here. How many times has the Secretary of State been warned by whom and what has he done? There would have been a right of drawing steering committee at the Ministry, including those involved, who would watch how it went. Who was in there? What warning signals have been discussed there and what action lists have been formed in response to this steering group? Who put something in there? Can the Court see the reports of these meetings, as well as the action points that would be set up to ensure that this would not go into the soup, as has happened now? How many administrative meetings have taken place between the Ministry and the Social Insurance Bank and how often has there been talk of alarming signals? Has the Social Insurance Bank's ICT system been tested sufficiently and independently? The report we have just received states that no feasibility test has been carried out. Have pgb holders been watching how they could declare? In other words, was it about the people or the systems? I would very much like to get these facts clear from the Secretary of State. What's next? Giving advance payments seems unwise to me, because then you have to start calculating again afterwards. That leads to more chaos in the chaos. I think it could be simpler. Firstly, restore the personal budgets to the own account. Secondly, get the ICT of the Social Insurance Bank in place as soon as possible. Test it well, let the pgb holders watch and then, as a third phase, enter the drawright phasedly. If you enter that staged, you can solve problems you see without hundreds of thousands of people being affected by systems that are not working. I would like to receive a response from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u5	Mr. Chairman. It's been a mess around the pgb for weeks. The Social Insurance Bank is unreachable, commitments are not met and people are sent from the locker to the wall. At the same time, aid workers are waiting for their money, in tension and uncertainty, to be able to pay their rent this month. Some even cancel their contracts. The Secretary of State has said not one but ten fingers on the wrist. Audits have been carried out. Just now all the signals from the Court of Auditors, the UNG and Per Balance, the interest association, have been mentioned. Those audits concluded as early as September that things would go wrong on 1 January. What happened to the conclusions of those audits and the other signals? Were these ever reason for the Secretary of State to reconsider the transition as of 1 January 2015? How does he do his directing now? These are important political questions. Others have already addressed this in depth. But all those thousands of pgb holders are useless. Carers of vulnerable elderly people, fathers and mothers of severely disabled children, and small-scale housing just want to know where they stand. We've been pushing for weeks for a debate. Well, there is now, but it's always been stopped by VVD and PvdA. Last Monday we received a letter with reassuring words again, but the Secretary of State gives no guarantees. Before I hear that you only get a warranty on vacuum cleaners, I'd like to know from the Secretary of State what the pgb holders can count on. Does the Secretary of State agree that all pgb holders will have clarity within ten days? Do we have everyone on camera? Aren't there any people falling between shore and ship? What about the study of the large group of 15,000 budget holders who have not yet responded at all? Can the SVB, the Social Insurance Bank, immediately send people an acknowledgement of receipt, which is also registered, so that people have a hold? Is the current chaos a one-off transitional problem, as the Secretary of State says, which was resolved after the January payments were processed, or will we have exactly the same situation and chaos at the end of this month? What happens if the deadlines are not met from Monday's letter? Can we then temporarily return to the old system and move on to a phased introduction, where for example first the monthly wages are paid and only later the declarations? Above all, I would like to know from the Secretary of State what instruments the pgb-holders have to enforce that they get what they are entitled to. After all, if a pgb holder is late with his papers, he will be told: if you are not on time, your pgb will be withdrawn. I'd like to know a little bit more about the opposite. The starting point of the healthcare reform was: from systems to people. I ask the Secretary of State what happened to this starting point. We see that pgb holders are forced into the straitjacket of the SVB's ICT system. That is actually the reverse world, because especially in the case of pgbs, it is about customization. The system should provide space for that customization, so that you can declare not only in hours, but also in day-sharing or in traveled kilometres. How is the Secretary of State going to ensure that these system errors are eliminated in the short term, so that there is room for customization, which is specific to the pgb? Is it true that the SVB's internet application has never been tested by the real budget holders? We are talking about the chaos at the SVB, but I also get signals that the payout with health insurance companies is not working out at all. Is the Secretary of State getting these signals, too? What's he gonna do about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u6	Mr. Chairman. "We will make sure that the payments of the pgbs are made as undisturbed as possible on 1 January." This is one of the characteristic reactions of the Secretary of State to the concerns of, among other things, the Chamber about the transfer of the pgb administration. Unfortunately. In practice, it is far from flawless. A large group of pgb-holders and caregivers have long been in uncertainty about the administration and payments of their care. It does not yet appear that this unrest will be resolved in the short term. This is therefore at the heart of the problem. A large group of vulnerable caregivers and caregivers have been affected by a major system change that has been implemented too quickly. Pgb holders are not the culprits in this, let alone fraudsters, but those who suffer from it. I sincerely hope that the Secretary of State will apologize to these people. Yesterday, a director of a care initiative e-mailed that he had received a payment from only one of his ten budget holders and that he could not afford to pay his twelve employees. Others were paid twice or only reimbursed for travel expenses. Others are still stuck in the system, because they still have no idea of payout or approval of their pieces, despite the multiple delivery of their agreements. There are also people who want to get in touch with the SVB to fix an error in the registration, but who do not come through or encounter misunderstandings. In short, it does not run smoothly with the roll-out of the draw. I understand that the employees of the SVB are running out of their feet to get it all sorted out. Unfortunately, however, we cannot assume that the payments that have been made in the meantime are all correct. It is clear to me that the measures that have now been taken do not yet represent a structural solution for budget holders and caregivers. Too many things go wrong for that. It should not be the case that the SVB declaration page falls flat, not even at peak moments, which will always be there. I am also concerned about the consequences for the people who have not been properly placed in the SVB system, where the wrong law is ticked, where mistakes have been made in the processing of the healthcare agreement or where the pgb has now been double deposited. I am also concerned about the people who want to amend the agreement with their healthcare provider. How much effort do they have to make to get this done? The emergency measures that have been taken are indispensable but will also have to be partially corrected. I'd like to hear from the Secretary of State how that will happen. The transfer of the pgb administration to the drawing right is comprehensive. My group will not deny that mistakes and misunderstandings are inevitable to some extent. For GroenLinks, however, there is no doubt that this chaos could have been avoided if preparations had been made more carefully. The major care reforms are carried out with an overheated engine. That is reason for GroenLinks to again and again express her concern about this pace. We are now seeing in the pgbs that these rushed care reforms can lead to. We hope that the Secretary of State will intervene with the SVB for as long as necessary and provide structural solutions for pgb-holders and caregivers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u7	Mr. Chairman. I can only conclude one thing at the beginning of this debate: it is chaos. The pgb alarm sounds loud and alarming, and it's alarming. Thousands of people are in trouble. I mention not only the budget holders but also the caregivers who cannot be paid out. This is about the importance of continuity of care. Less than an hour ago, I spoke to a budget holder who, I think, rightly said: at some point, the caregivers will run away. That's a real fear. Late Monday night, by midnight, the Secretary of State wrote a letter. It was shot in the wrong throat in my group. I thought the motto was "from systems to people"? The letter explains the cause to the people, to the budget holders. I do not think that is right at all. The healthcare agreements were sent in in time, often already in August/September last year, but often ended up on the wrong desk or not at all. I therefore agree, like other groups in the Chamber, with the Secretary of State apologizing to the pgb-holders. There's a lot of trouble. Are the ICT systems pgb-proof? That is my first question to the Secretary of State. After all, the pgb is customized. It's not just about declaring in hours that's how the system is built up, but it's also about sleeping hours, transport costs and holidays. All that doesn't fit in the system. I also ask the secretary why there has been no execution test. Is it true that Per Balance has already insisted on this in the middle of last year, but that nothing has happened to that signal? I'm here to talk about the care agreements. They're being sent back late, and then they're being sent back for really little petty shit. I got an e-mail from a father with an almost adult son, who had indicated that he was "observer" when he should have filled in "representative." That was the mistake in the care agreement. It wasn't sent back until after weeks. You didn't have to do this. There has been a lot of delay and uncertainty, and it just wasn't necessary. I already gave it to you: health care agreements are gonna end up on the wrong desk. There is disagreement between the Social Insurance Bank and on the other hand health offices and municipalities. I would very much like the Secretary of State to break this stalemate. We're being pointed out to each other now. The budget holders and the caregivers are the victims of this. I would also very much like the communication problems to be resolved. The phone won't be answered. I even heard that mails sent are automatically answered that they cannot be delivered. So the mailbox is overcrowded. What's the Secretary of State gonna do about this? The Christian Union considers it very important that structural solutions are now in place. We really need to go for the people now, not the systems. That is why I ask the Secretary of State when the ICT system is focused on the people who need it very badly. When will the ICT system focus on the customisation inherent in the pgb? Can the Secretary of State guarantee that communication will be in order this week and that all unrequited e-mails will simply be answered? That's the least of it. I urge structural solutions. Thousands of indications will again take place this spring. Budget holders are re-indicated. Then this has to be solved. I read in the Secretary of State's letter that 75% of budget holders will receive a payment within five days and the remaining budget holders within ten working days. The Secretary of State always said he'd keep ten fingers on the wrist. As far as I'm concerned, that's ten fingers to count down today. Of those ten days, one is already over. If it's not settled in ten days, we'll be back here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u8	Mr. Chairman. Last year it was discussed in a number of debates: could the municipalities be able to cope with all the tasks that go from the Empire to the municipalities, which are thus decentralised? Wouldn't things go wrong? It is very surprising that the first debate on things that go wrong has nothing to do with decentralisation, but rather with enormous centralization: everything has to go through the Social Insurance Bank. This requires a huge adjustment of the systems, but that is with very good intentions. The right to employment was widely supported. After all, on the one hand, we were able to combat fraud and, on the other hand, reduce the administrative burden on those who are so gratefully using the personalised budget; that wonderful tool that allows people to make better use of their own direction. Yeah, that was the plan. In fact, we had planned this years ago, with broad support. It is not, therefore, the case that we came up with something shortly before 1 January and introduced it far too quickly. So it wasn't that, but it went wrong. We can, of course, give extensive technical considerations. They can be found in the Secretary of State's letter, but can I still hear what went wrong in home, garden and kitchen language? We knew this was a big, complicated operation. Why were these systems not put in order after all, so that they could operate the people? We can set people and systems against each other here, and we all think that people need help, but we can only help people if we have well-functioning systems. Making sure that things are in order in good time requires a strong commitment from a lot of people. We can sing it in new keys, but of course things have gone incredibly annoyingly wrong. Good-willed people have fallen victim to this. They're dealing with a lot of uncertainty, with uncertainty, with chaos. That's all the more painful when people had things nicely for themselves when payments were still running through them. Actually, that's what I find most painful about this. I think everyone is motivated to solve these problems as quickly as possible. Many emergency measures have already been taken. My simple question, following what colleagues have already said, is: is things under control now? It has been said: within so many days this and within so many days that. Is that being done now, or are there new surprises or setbacks? An important question from the SGP Group is to what extent these are transitional issues. It is true that incredibly annoying and miserable transitional problems, but still transitional problems. Or is there also a structural problem and should we be afraid that this will happen again and that more is needed? What is the Secretary of State's view on this? As I said, one of the objectives of the measure of the right of draw was not to give the malicious an opportunity to abuse the pgb. That is a noble objective, which we also support, but unfortunately we do see that the good guys are the victims of this measure. The SGP Group believes that we should beware of an over-reaction, namely that we are going to help the good guys again, and that we want to do so unconditionally and as soon as possible, so that there will soon be all kinds of fraud. Then I am afraid there will be another debate on Bulgarian fraud. We don't want to. So it remains a challenge to set it up in such a way that all people are helped, but that it does not happen in such a rude way that there is a risk of fraud, recovery or whatever. I'd like to get a reaction to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u9	There is an interruption by Mrs Leijten, but I think you're almost done. I suggest you finish your story and then Mrs Leijten will have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u10	I use the 13 seconds that remain for my final comment. I would very much like to hear the answer from the Secretary of State to the following questions. Was this preventable? How could this have gotten this far? To what extent is it a structural problem or a transitional problem? How can we prevent fraud from being provoked by the way it is solved?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u11	I think it's a bit unfortunate that the SGP spokesperson says that fraud can be facilitated if you propose a solution. I actually wanted to save the pgb fraud for tomorrow, because tomorrow we have a big debate on care fraud, but I will ask the question anyway. Does the SGP think that organised crime with pgbs, whereby third-party vulnerable people talk to a pgb, deprive them of a pgb and don't give care, we all see that with this construction we cut off the pass? According to my analysis, the analysis of the SP, this is not happening at all. Does this justify the big words that we should keep the payment at SVB for the time being, even if it is chaos, because there may be fraud? The right of trekking has not solved the fraud.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u12	Does it take more than that to stop fraud? The answer to that is yes. This is a building block, but not the ultimate answer. Does this subject belong in this debate? I thought it was right to draw attention to it. For example, if you opt too easily for a system of massive bias and don't look at anything else, and then say that this wasn't the intention, you may ask yourself if it was possible to solve the problems in a smarter way. That is the only reason why I have also brought forward this side of the matter. I would also like to learn from debates that we had in this Chamber not so long ago about what went wrong with the Tax Office, with surcharges and so on. On the one hand, the system, out of well-meaning customer friendliness, was too susceptible to fraud. On the other hand, fraud was dealt with in such a rigorous manner that good-willed people were the victims of it. The balance remains important, but our first concern now is that people who haven't seen the money just get it and that all the problems are solved. This is now our first and most important concern in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u13	I agree with that last remark. In fact, 170,000 health care contracts have not been paid out. That's a third of the whole thing. A person or an organisation that gives vulnerable people a pgb and promises to provide care to them, but does not do that eventually organized crime in this system can write neat care agreements and send them to the SVB. He'll get his money anyway. So I think that in the solution you have to find to get 170,000 healthcare contracts paid out, perhaps the tiny bit that was individual fraud with the pgb, you should take for granted. It is disproportionate not to pay out three quarters of the people who make their money through the pgb.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u14	That was not a question, but you may respond, Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u15	The right of trekking is not a miracle cure, but it can help, so is my thesis. Do we have to turn this whole thing upside down right now? That's all going too fast for me. We agreed to this, because we thought this would be the right route, but it has to work. The first concern now is to put the problem right. We can later see if there are any structural problems with this solution. The priority now is that people get their money.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u16	Mr. Chairman. September last year, the ICT system, which at that time only regulated the payment of child benefit and the AOW, was on its way. The Social Insurance Bank then decided to stop developing the system, because the project would continue to be very problematic according to the interim report. The cost of this was 43.7 million. The old systems from the 1980s have been patched up and strengthened. The result has now been seen: tens of thousands of healthcare workers, if not hundreds of thousands, have not been paid their salary and care agreements have not been assessed, misjudged or simply lost. Employees of an extra team picked up the phone and that would solve everything. These people, as they themselves indicated, could not provide any substantive information, but could only record all questions and complaints. Even putting it through proved problematic. So it was unrest all over the place. Caregivers who didn't want to run the risk of running out of money chose to work somewhere else for the time being instead of providing the necessary pgb care. Consequences? People have missed their care. Budget holders could not advance their employees' salary. Consequences? For the time being, care was waived. The care workers who still believed in the mantra that everything would be okay and who simply did their job are left to their own devices. They do not receive any payments, but their fixed charges will continue. What does the Secretary of State say to all parents who are financially fully dependent on the pgb? What's he gonna tell the mother who was in Nieuwsuur yesterday who couldn't buy her son a birthday present? He says to her, "Unfortunately, peanut butter, better next year?" Last Monday the redeeming word would come, at least according to the Labour Party. A letter came from the Secretary of State. What a deception this letter! What an arrogance not to deal with the problems right away, but first to elaborate on the why of the current system! Everyone in this Chamber supports the right to draw, but the question has always been asked whether the SVB could handle this extra task. This does not seem to be the case now, but the content of the letter attempts to shift attention to the budget holders and the caregivers who were all clearly well informed and even reminded. I thought additional measures had already been taken in the so-called emergency scenario. This just didn't work. So much for the cabinet response. It would have ordained the Secretary of State if he had behaved more modestly. A mea culpa would have been in place instead of the remark that the introduction would be a little more trouble once. Anyone could file their claims as of yesterday, but unfortunately, the Social Insurance Bank could not be reached. What guarantees does the Secretary of State give now? Where can people who have got into trouble because they have not been able to pay their fixed charges in January? If we want to move from systems to people, people have to be in systems. If we want to move from systems to people, systems must work. When will this be resolved? How's it gonna be fixed? Is it really fixed? I would like to hear a response from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u17	Mr. Chairman. The personal budget is a wonderful way to enable people to organise their own care. Control over your own care means more control over your own life, even if you have a disability, are older than a child with a disability or get older yourself. You can provide your care in the way that best suits you. Thanks to the pgb, fantastic care initiatives have emerged. The pgb is now also finally laid down in all care laws. In the Wmo, the Long-Term Care Act, the Youth Act and the Health Insurance Act there is a legal right to a pgb. This was fought hard, also with the support of the Labour Party, when the former Secretary of State decided to work with so-called drawing rights for pgbs. That is a fact as of 1 January of this year. However, implementation by the Social Insurance Bank is not going well. We see a lot of examples of that and they come in very hard. The e-mails people send us are intense. This situation is incredibly acidic for pgb holders and creates uncertainty. For the PvdA, one thing is now at the forefront: the problems that exist must be solved as quickly as possible. That's gonna help pgb-holders. Aid workers need to be paid out and people need to know where they stand. They deserve certainty. The Secretary of State sent a letter on Monday containing a number of measures. It is now important that the Social Insurance Bank really tackles and solves the problems. The most important thing is that aid workers can be paid out. When are social security workers paid by the Sociale Verzekeringsbank? When has this urgent problem been resolved? The communication to pgb-holders by the SVB is inadequate. People want to know what they're up to. Sometimes it just lacks very basic information. The headline "frequently asked questions" on the website is still very general. I mean, it's pretty simple, isn't it? It's about questions like: what should I do if I don't have an approved healthcare agreement? Or: what should I do if I can't declare in hours but want to declare a part of the day or a transport trip for example? How's the Secretary of State gonna improve communication? It could actually be on the site within a day, right? What measures will the SVB take? I want the Secretary of State to include Per Balance, the association of pgb-holders, so that clear information can be given to the pgb-holders, not official language but human language. There are people who are now in trouble because the SVB has not yet paid aid workers. The Secretary of State has set up a hotline, a rapid response team, at the SVB. How do people who get into trouble know they can get to that hotline? Healthcare providers, residential initiatives and older people's initiatives working with pgbs are also sometimes affected. Is it also possible for these care initiatives to call on the rapid response team so that money problems of healthcare organisations can be avoided or resolved? Is that rapid response team really designed so that a case that is notified is immediately resolved? I'm gonna finish up. The problems at the Social Insurance Bank have to be solved. I see that measures have been taken to that end. Pgb-holders will say: See first and then believe. They want to see it work, so not if it works, but if it works. People are waiting for solutions. All those people who are in uncertainty deserve certainty. I assume that the Secretary of State also informs the Chamber about the progress of these solutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u18	I am very pleased that we are having this debate this afternoon, but I would have been much happier if we could have done that a few weeks earlier. I now hear from Mr Van Dijk that the PvdA is also concerned about the implementation and the promises that are constantly being made, which always prove that they cannot be kept. Does Mr Van Dijk agree with me that we really should have done this much earlier?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u19	In my opinion, Chamberwide is in need of solving the problems we all saw, both D66 and my party, as soon as possible. A number of measures have been taken to this end. I agree with Mrs Dijkstra that it is a good thing that we are talking about this now, because budget holders are waiting for solutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u20	I would like to ask Mr Van Dijk what solutions he sees. I asked the Secretary of State: if, within the time limits set in Monday's letter, it is not possible to send all the pgb holders what they are entitled to, how do we proceed? What are the views of the Labour Party on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u21	I see in the letter sent by the Secretary of State on Monday a number of concrete proposals and dates in which payment must be made. I also think that the Secretary of State and, in particular, the Social Insurance Bank should work on this and work on it. As-dan questions are always very interesting, but I think we really need to do everything we can to make sure that what is now is done. That's what people are waiting for.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u22	I told you in my term, a warned man counts for two. But does this also apply to the Secretary of State? I found that there were at least six moments in 2014 when the Secretary of State was warned. In May he was warned by the General Court, in July by the cities and in August by the cities again. In October, he was warned by Deloitte, in the ICT report we just received. In November he was warned again by the General Court and in December we parliamentarians warned him in a debate. Would the Labour Party not be okay if the Secretary of State clearly indicated when he was warned and by whom, if he took those warnings seriously and what he subsequently did with them?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u23	I think it's a good thing we're looking at how it went. Those are interesting and important questions. At the moment, however, I would like to make every effort to solve the problems that exist today in particular. In particular, let us put energy into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u24	I agree. I have also put forward a proposal for three measures: dump the pgb immediately, so that in any case pgb-holders can pay their caregivers, solve the ICT problems and phase them over the introduction. I think D66 made the same proposal. Hopefully the Labour Party will join us. We're asking for a solution from someone who needs to know how seriously he takes the problem. That is why the SP really wants to know whether the Secretary of State has been aware of the canyon as a warned man, over the back of more than 200,000 health care workers, or whether he has put all his efforts into taking these warnings seriously. I hope for support from the Labour Party in my attempt to get rid of whether this is the Secretary of State who can solve that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u25	I see a secretary of state who's been intervening at the Social Insurance Bank for the past few weeks. I agree with Mrs Leijten that all the energy and attention should now be devoted to solving the problems of the people who are watching this debate, who are sitting in the public gallery. They need to know when they will get their budget and that the problem will be solved so that their aid workers can be paid.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u26	I heard the Labour Party say that the problems that exist now have to be solved. This is also the subject of the Secretary of State's letter on the payment of health care workers. However, there are so many more problems. I would like to hear from the Labour Party what it is going to do to solve the structural problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u27	Whether it concerns the problems that exist now or structural problems, it has to work! Of this right of drawing, we all say in the Chamber that it is important for a solid pgb. That's gotta work. That has to work now and it has to work soon, so the comments and questions that have been asked by others are very relevant. After all, I do not want us to get back into all kinds of implementation problems in a while. It has to be a system that connects with people. I agree with Mrs Dik-Faber that the special customization of the pgb must find a place in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u28	I would very much like to emphasise this, because there are problems at the moment. Let us hope that they will be resolved quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u29	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u30	There are problems with paying out care providers, but there are also structural problems. The ICT system does not address the customization that is a pgb. We're not talking about sleep hours, not vacation hours and so on. That does not work in the current way, and I really hope that the Labour Party will support us to see how we can really make that system custom-made.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u31	I very much agree with Mrs Dik-Faber. I, too, have just referred to questions such as how you deal with a journey or part of a day's spending. That can't be declared in hours, but it has to be declared. It shouldn't be the case that people have to go to the system. No, the system must be designed in such a way that care is the characteristic of the personalised budget that can be based on customization and that this ultimately fits with the care that people have. I very much agree with her.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u32	Rapid response team, it's beautiful. It's a shame that team doesn't start with an R too, because we would have had three R's in a row. More interesting, however, is the question of whether it will work. At least 170,000 people who haven't gotten their budget yet. According to Each (in) and Per Balance there are even more. Isn't the PvdA Group now afraid that we'll leave here right after the salvening words of this Secretary of State and think that's gonna solve the problems?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u33	170,000 payments cannot be resolved by a rapid response team or hotline or whatever, I very much agree with Mrs Keijzer. What I want to hear from this Secretary of State is that it works, that it is solved and that it is ultimately resolved in a customer-friendly way. I refer to the small debate I had with Mrs Dik-Faber on this subject. The rapid response team is intended for situations of people who do not fit into the system. I refer to this parental initiative, which is now getting under way or the housing initiatives that are not currently being paid out or are in financial difficulties. That needs to be solved. About how the rapid response team works, I asked a question to the Secretary of State. I just want it to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u34	I'm a little shocked, because here the representative of the PvdA says that the rapid response team is not meant to pay those 170,000 caregivers. That's what he just said. I now think it is important to challenge this PvdA group to support one of the concrete proposals that have been made here today to actually do something. Whether that is the proposal of the CDA or that of the SP, I don't care, but I do assume that the PvdA Group is not leaving here today with just the promise that there will be a rapid repsons team. After all, it is clear that the PvdA group does not see the solution for all those budget holders.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u35	There just needs to be a solution. The money for the budget holders with whom the aid workers are paid should simply be arranged. The solution team is for the bottlenecks. It's gotta be quick. I've already asked if that's gonna work and if it's gonna be resolved soon. It simply needs to be done. In this respect, Mrs Keijzer and I do not disagree: it must be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u36	I hear Mr Van Dijk say that it is important to come up with solutions quickly. I'll share that with him. These solutions concern both payments and administration. We are receiving signals that some of the payments that have already been made have not been properly made. So those payments don't add up. In order to come up with good solutions, it is necessary to know exactly what the problems are. A good problem analysis must therefore be carried out. Does Mr Van Dijk agree with me that we should have an independent implementation test for this, in order to have a good problem analysis with which we can come up with solutions?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u37	I can support anything that makes a reasonable contribution to solving the problem. Of course, structural solutions also require an analysis of the problem. Then it seems to me that an execution test, or any suggestion made in the letter of Each [in] and Per Balance today, is quite reasonable.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u38	Mr. Chairman. The VVD believes that we should be incredibly economical on the beautiful instrument of the personal budget. Fortunately, there is little discussion about this in the Chamber. That is why, I think, there was little discussion about the desirability of introducing a drawing right to prevent evildoers from taking advantage of this beautiful instrument. The VVD is unbelievable that so many budget holders now have problems with implementation. There are problems with payment on time, contracts are lost, calls are not answered or not answered properly etc. We've seen it come by again today.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u39	You've only just begun, but Mrs Keijzer has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u40	I'm actually happy with these words from Mr Van 't Wout. Is he saying that his reaction last Sunday in the newspaper, which all figures show that there was a lot of fraud, has been a completely wrong response to all the problems pgb-holders face at the Social Insurance Bank?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u41	If we want to talk about fraud, we have to do it tomorrow and Mrs Keijzer has to quote me correctly. Let's have that debate tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u42	I didn't hear the last words, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u43	I think we're gonna talk about fraud tomorrow. So let's do that. Let us also quote each other in that debate. Then I would like to have this debate with Mrs Keijzer. It has nothing to do with the problem we are discussing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u44	That is good to hear, because the first official reaction of the VVD group to all problems at the Social Insurance Bank was about fraud. By the way, that is what the VVD spokesperson is starting again today. Nevertheless, I am pleased that he is now able to stand alongside the budget holders in particular. That's what they need.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u45	I like games like this, but they don't bring the solution any closer. Let's go find that together. The uncertainty and the problems are, of course, particularly distressing when you consider that they are people who need care themselves or who have to organise care for their parents or their children. Everyone agrees that the problems at the Social Insurance Bank must be resolved as quickly as possible. As far as the VVD is concerned, the focus is on timely and correct payout and better accessibility and communication. The Secretary of State has now put in place heavy instruments to at least make the payments in the near future, whether your healthcare agreement has already been approved or not. The VVD thinks that this is an understandable and good step. I can also imagine that many budget holders say: see first, then believe. For now, the VVD has the following questions for the Secretary of State. We see that not only budget holders but also healthcare providers are in danger of getting into trouble because they are not paid out or because they are unable to pay salaries and premiums and fear that fines will have to be paid again. Is the Secretary of State prepared to look very seriously at these signals and really prevent such healthcare providers from falling over due to the problems at the Social Insurance Bank? There is a tailor-made facility. Is there enough capacity for that and is it working now? What happened there the last week? We think it is very good that Per Balance, the interest organisation of budget holders, is involved, but they also indicate that it is incredibly busy and heavy for them. How's the Secretary of State gonna fix that? How do we ensure that ICT and accessibility improve significantly in the short term? How does the Secretary of State ensure accurate, rapid and, above all, understandable communication with budget holders? The VVD considers it very important that, in the future of this discussion, the look and eye of the budget holder should be intensively involved, for the moment, for the short-term problems, but also for the longer term. Is the Secretary of State prepared to involve Per Balance intensively in the coming months, for example when all of these self-approved declarations will be reviewed? We do not want to have the same discussion as we do now. Can the Secretary of State describe at all what this trajectory will look like, with the agreements that have been resolved on their own initiative? Everyone agrees and you cannot disagree with it either: the problems at the Social Insurance Bank must be solved, and quickly. The Secretary of State really needs to get to work on that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u46	A solution must certainly be found, but a good analysis of how this could have happened too. I have just said in my speech, but also in an interruption at the PvdA Group, that this Secretary of State has been warned at least six times publicly, possibly even more often. He has been warned at administrative tables, by steering committees and so on. Doesn't the VVD agree that, apart from that solution, on which we all agree, we should at least be clear about how this went? If we want this Secretary of State to solve it, we must be sure that he takes it seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u47	I am glad that we agree that all energy should now be in solutions. I do believe that you should look very carefully at how this happened. The Ombudsman has said that he is going to investigate this. That seems wise to me, because then there is also a party looking from the outside. We must indeed learn lessons from this, but I do not agree with the suggestion that the Secretary of State would not take this seriously. Moreover, he has clearly been told what the whole Chamber is asking of him.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u48	It was Mrs Keijzer who yesterday was so keen to ask about the implementation test of the ICT system. We received it an hour before the debate. It is from 15 October and contains relevant information, which actually states that problems have been neglected until then. Didn't Mr. Van't Wout want to know about this, too? Have we not asked the Secretary of State several times how the Social Insurance Bank could be unreachable in October, November and December? Didn't he always say he was on top of it and that he was gonna be okay? Doesn't Mr Van 't Wout think that's what this is about, about the empty promises this cabinet has made?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u49	I wouldn't want to put such big words in my mouth. I think it's a good thing we're going to see how this happened. I think that the Ombudsman's report is very valuable. Let us look at that. In answer to your other questions: as a chamber you always have to find the balance; to what extent do you want to watch the execution of things up to the millimeter? You'll have that, too. That is why I am very open today to all kinds of solutions that are being put forward, but I also think that we should not be too quick to say what solution it should be. You need to take a good look at whether a solution is going to work at all. I do wonder whether the Chamber should go all the way into the ICT systems. I am pleased that the Ombudsman is going to look at this. For now, energy really needs to sit down in solving the acute problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u50	I think it's very good to focus on the solutions. Mrs Leijten is asking very relevant questions here. I made that one, too. But let's just focus on the solution. I hear Mr Van 't Wout asking a number of questions. They are all answered in the reply to my written questions, in the letter of 20 January, in the letter of 26 January and in the letter of 2 February. The only new aspect in the letter of February 2nd is that rapid response team. According to Mr Van 't Wout, will those at least 170,000 caregivers be helped with this? Is that enough?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u51	I think there was a little more in that letter. It said, for example, that they would pay out anyway, without the approval of health care agreements. That is a firm measure. Anyway, Mrs. Keijzer asked me if that rapid response team would be the panacea. If we had already found the solution, we would not have been here. I've just asked questions of my own. Is there enough capacity? Nor should it be the case that that rapid response team, or whatever we want to call it, should provide the solution. That rapid response team should be there for cases where the regular trajectory doesn't work. That regular trajectory just has to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u52	However, we are standing here because that regular trajectory does not work. That rapid response team needs to figure that out. Does Mr Van 't Wout really think that this will be a solution for those at least 170,000 caregivers who need to get their money now? The next question is even more interesting. What does the VVD Group do when it comes to concluding that this is not the solution? Is it then prepared to take a step further and go along with one of the proposals made today in the Chamber to actually pay out?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u53	I have just said that we must look very seriously at all directions and ideas for a solution. I very much agree with what Mrs Ellemeet has just said; I think it was her. Before the Chamber very quickly, this afternoon, embraces rather radical solutions, it must look very closely at whether those solutions will actually work. Or do we do something that is so radical that it might make the problems bigger, or get to another group? Yeah, speed's good. Finding solutions is also good. However, I am not going to cling to any solution. We have to choose a solution that we know will work. This solution must not require excessive effort and capacity on the part of the Social Insurance Bank, which means that there can no longer be any day-to-day work, no longer be able to pick up the phone and no longer be able to pay.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u54	Mr Van 't Wout says that the VVD does not want to cling to solutions. Is the VVD prepared to indicate a time limit within which everything must be resolved? Mr. Van 't Wout says the system has to work. What is an acceptable deadline for the VVD? When does it have to be?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u55	At least we've seen that there's a mention of payata. That should be just right in the short term. Furthermore, it seems clear to me that as soon as possible, but also on the basis of reasonable requirements, the structural problems in the Social Insurance Bank are being addressed. I myself think you should start with a very good problem analysis. Where's the crux? The Chamber should not almost sit on the seat of the Director of Social Insurance, and should not say exactly how it should go everywhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u56	I don't have that need, but I do have the need to stand up for all the pgb-holders and all the employees in the care that can't buy care or get paid out. The whole Chamber minus two parties has been asking for this for three weeks. We could have been looking for a solution three weeks ago. That was stopped by Mr Van 't Wout's party and by the Labour Party. That is why I ask what is an acceptable deadline for the VVD. We must avoid that when we see that things go wrong again and people get into trouble again, and when solutions are asked for here again, things are stretched and stretched and stretched again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u57	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Cases must be resolved in a reasonable manner as soon as possible. First, the short-term problems need to be addressed. Left or right, there's just got to be paid. At the Social Insurance Bank, the telephone must be answered and people must be heard. Then we need to look very closely at where the structural error is and where the structural problems lie. For these structural problems, an appropriate solution must then be found.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u58	The Secretary of State's letter talks about the working stock. I think that's a terrible word, because it's about people. There is also talk about payment deadlines. What gives the VVD group the confidence that it's really going to be like this? Last night, we watched Newshour. Mr. Van 't Wout was really very positive. He said, here's what we're gonna do. Can the VVD Group explain where that trust comes from?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u59	I just said that for budget holders it certainly applies: first to see and then to believe. The Secretary of State states that the Social Insurance Bank and he say that it can and will therefore be paid out. That's just what needs to be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u60	That has to be done. Can I therefore assume that if things do not work out as we are told and as we agree with each other, then we will find the VVD on our side and then we will support a debate request?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u61	It seems obvious to me that the Secretary of State will keep the Chamber very closely informed of all the progress made in the actions promised in the letter last Monday night, and that, if we are not satisfied with that, we will discuss it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u62	Madam President. The previous speakers have consistently identified the most concerns that 50PLUS has on several occasions. I would like to mention a number of issues and I would like an explicit response from the Secretary of State on all these points. Firstly, the administrative chaos surrounding the registration of the care agreements and the poor accessibility of the Social Insurance Bank, both by telephone and digital. For example, the website was out yesterday and people got the message back this morning that their mail could not be delivered because the Social Insurance Bank's mailbox was full. The Secretary of State's letter gives no reason why it's such chaos. It only gives a kick to the pgb-holders, because they wouldn't understand or because they wouldn't have submitted the agreements in time. There is a threat of sanctions if budget holders do not supply their data, sometimes even several times, while on the other hand the agreements are always not being complied with. Then there are the financial problems that threaten the thousands of unpaid caregivers. There are even people now who can't pay their rent or other things because of this. For them, there really needs to be a coulance arrangement. Furthermore, there is unbridled frustration among pgb-holders, who, despite weeks of hard work, are not making any progress and there is poorly instructed policy around the employees. What guarantee is there that from now on all the problems that are still taking place will go well? What is the guarantee that the solutions provided will be adequate and feasible within the deadlines set? What is the State Secretary's opinion on the announcement by the National Ombudsman of an inquiry into the situation? Finally, despite the many signals, there is the reluctance of the Secretary of State to intervene in good time. I therefore think that the apology requested is very appropriate. And let's be honest, there was also government parties unwilling to talk about this at an earlier stage. All things considered, I actually only have one final question. How would the Secretary of State feel about suspending, as a sign of his involvement, his own salary until all caregivers and all overdue claims have been paid out? I'd like to get a reaction to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u63	This brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u64	[No first-term sound recording of State Secretary; ca. 03:15] Yeah, but that care agreement hasn't been approved yet. There's nothing people can do about that. The balance sheet we are looking for in the system of drawing rights, and perhaps wider, is as follows. On the one hand it is about freedom and flexibility to regulate your own care and on the other hand it is about taking responsibility and exercising control over it. So on the one hand you want to offer freedom and flexibility, and on the other hand you want control and accountability to be designed as well as possible. That is a constant consideration. That point of consideration is not yet ready; I shall come back to that. However, it must be clear where people can get their questions and where they can be effectively helped. In all the debates on the personal budgets, I have always thought of two things. Firstly, the pgb is a valuable and essential tool for people who want and can do so, in order to be able to arrange specific care in their own direction. That is why I have legally enshrined the pgb, not for nothing, in all healthcare laws, namely in the Wmo, in the Long-Term Care Act, in the Youth Act and in the Health Insurance Act. I want pgbs to be a sustainable instrument. That's why we did that. Secondly, I want the pgb to be solid and fraud-proof. The pgb holders still suffer most when there is discussion about possible fraud with pgbs. All bona fide budget holders are affected by this discussion every time or when there are doubts about the instruments. You shouldn't. That is why we have to do two things all the time: the legal anchoring of that instrument -- that is what we have done now -- so that it is a long-term tool that people can count on, and make sure it works well and is solid. That is why, some time ago, we decided to introduce the right of draw. This right of drawing is a major change for all concerned: for municipalities, for health offices, for pgb-holders and for caregivers. We are going from a system of "progress and check later" to a system of "pre-check and then declare." It is the transition from a system in which everyone received the advance on their own account, with ex post control, to a system of payment based on declarations, with ex ante control. I think it is right to use this point to answer a number of questions from the Chamber about the causes of the problems and how they should be interpreted. I shall continue with my speech as follows. First, let's take a look at the causes. Then I come to the actions that have been taken, including in the past. A number of questions have been asked about this. Then I come to the results of that. Are these actions working or not? To what extent are they sustainable for the future? A number of Members have asked the same question. Then I will focus on the progress, the monitoring, and the evaluation and how I look at the future. Let's take a look at the causes. That's a few things. Firstly, it appears from all the investigations and audits that have been carried out in the past that: beware, this is a major operation, an operation in which there is a high chain dependence, so the provision of information between municipalities, health offices and Social Insurance Bank must be correct. In the past, all these parties carried out a piece of the task, but now it is being centralized, as Mr Van der Staaij said just now. This has a number of advantages, but these data flows will have to run. It doesn't matter if that current comes in gradually or at once, for example at the end of the year, which then causes a kind of peak load, in which, as it were, the whole chain is blocked. That's one of the reasons. A second reason is that the core of the instrument of drawing rights is that we move from a system of advance payments to ex-post control with declarations. That's a different pay-as-you-go rhythm. It all sounds technical, but it makes sense: first you got an advance on your account and you had to pay for it and then explain it later, but now you get a care plan with a budget and then you declare on the basis of hours worked. Those two points, on the one hand, peak taxes and high chain dependence and on the other hand, change the payment rhythm, create a number of issues that we are now facing. Soon I will come to the more structural component. In my letter, the Chamber has been able to see what action we have taken to reduce the problems. For that, I need to go back a little bit. A number of members of the Chamber have also asked: what has happened in the course of the years around this right of draw? Mrs Keijzer and Mrs Leijten also asked about the timeline. The policy plan to introduce the right of draw was first appointed in the progress report to the Chamber in 2012. The whole Chamber said: can we not introduce that right of draw very quickly? At that time, however, we did discuss the question of how quickly it is justified. Then we said: it has to be done around this timeline. We did so on 23 May 2013 in the debate on fraud in healthcare. So we also had the debate on this subject in 2013. That programme was then launched and a steering committee was set up. Mrs Leijten asked who was in there. Those are the health offices, the Social Insurance Bank, VWS, the VNG and later also the G-4. During that process, close contact was also maintained with client organisations. Those parties therefore had to strike a balance between a system of freedom and flexibility and a proper system of control and accountability. There have also been a number of pilots. The Social Insurance Bank worked on its roadmap in the first half of 2013, according to which the use of these pilots could take place in the course of 2014. There had also been a pilot with municipalities that had some sort of drawing rights carried out. A number of reports have then been made. Mrs Leijten mentioned a few. The Court of Auditors said: pay attention, if you want to do this, with that great chain dependence, then you have to make sure that there is more direction from VWS. Then a project group was set up to make sure that extra direction was put in place. A letter from the VNG said that we should pay very close attention or the functionalities that the municipalities want to give to it are also honoured. We have had a lot of discussion about this, because if all the municipalities are going to make different demands on the system, things are not going well. We have said that we must agree a certain functionality with each other. Reports have been published on this subject. A number of ICT reports have also been published, in which, on the one hand, there was a need for good management, that gate dependence. On the other hand, it said that the system was ready and feasible. The latest report on ICT, the Gateway study, shows that with the measures taken and a number of additions, it is feasible to introduce the system on 1 January 2015. Mrs Leijten referred to another point made by the Court of Auditors. I think she is referring to the report in the 2015 budget report, which commented on the fact that the costs had to be accounted for in the budget. The Court of Auditors has made two observations. One was that more direction had to be taken on the whole process with the Gateway partners. The second was to ensure that the costs of the budget were properly accounted for.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u65	One of the things that comes back in this timeline is that it is said: take more direction. That's what the Secretary of State and the Ministry have been told. In May and autumn it was said publicly by the General Court. The UNG has also said it in public. I received a letter including a report dated 27 March 2014 in which Gateway states that implementation is impossible or hardly feasible unless two major measures are taken. I would like to know what measures have been taken following the alarming report that the status was orange red on 27 March 2014. Can the Secretary of State just give us a list of everything he did back then? After all, I note that the call for more direction has actually repeated itself afterwards. On 27 March 2014, however, the status was orange red.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u66	That is correct, and as Mrs Leijten knows, a Gateway study was also carried out in September. That study looked at all the measures taken, what agreements were made on the exchange of data, what exactly happened with the implementation of a number of framework conditions in the systems and whether you distinguish between different categories. I'll come back at that later. All this led to the Gateway Review of September 2014 which concluded that implementation was feasible as of 1 January 2015, taking into account a number of measures. How's that going? For such a project, all people come together to develop. There have been a number of pilots. You learn from that and then you start designing a system. Those system designs are requested and prepared and recommendations are made. Each time you process the recommendations and start measuring again. At some point that leads to a conclusion that it is good and you decide with each other that it can. That is what happened in this case. In between, there have been many other studies: the Privacy Impact Assessment, a study by Deloitte on what is going on in the systems for the benefit of the Social Insurance Board and a number of investigations to assess whether we were ready or not. In March, the Gateway Review said it wouldn't work if it went on like this, because we still had a few things to do. A gateway investigation was then conducted to see if the agreements were followed up. That was the case. Then the conclusion was: feasible. They're always considerations, that's true, but that's how you have to meet up to carry out a project.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u67	I think we can question whether it was feasible. We are standing here because of a huge chaos. 75% of the submitted care contracts have not been paid out. The SVB has been unreachable for ages. I am convinced that they are doing very hard to solve the problem for the budget holders. I hear that those who complain actively on Twitter get preferential treatment. Whether that's so neat, I don't know. The question is, of course, whether the Secretary of State should have passed the introduction by 1 January 2015. I can imagine that the Secretary of State is not fully prepared to do so now, but I would like to ask him to give us a very clear overview on Friday or Monday from 27 March 2014 when code orange red was issued, which made the introduction impossible or impossible. What happened from that moment on? What consultations have you had? What interventions have there been? That's what I'd like to know. I would like to look at solutions with the Secretary of State, but I also want to make sure that he has taken previous warnings seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u68	Of course it is. That's why we're getting those tests done. The fact that all these investigations and audits are there already indicates that we look at a number of aspects and then make recommendations. Then let's do some research again to see what's going on. Of course, it is a little faint when I see that there are two Gateway investigations. In one condition: boys, take measures, because the score is now orange so you have to do some things. In the following research it says: now it is all green and implementation is feasible. Mrs Leijten now mentions one and not the other. Too bad. Mrs Leijten also says that 175,000 contracts have not been paid. No, you can't, because many of those contracts are in the system and people will be paid on declaration. So that's what's going on right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u69	Three quarters!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u70	There's three quarters in the system. Fifty-eight thousand have been paid because they're month laborers. The rest must be paid on declaration and that process is now in progress. So you're not going to tell me that 175.000 people haven't been paid, because that's just not right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u71	Mrs. Leijten, your second interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u72	No, I want to make a comment. The figures I mention are from the Secretary of State's letter. So if he says it's not true, at least I want it to be clear to the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u73	That letter's exactly right. 229,000 healthcare agreements have been submitted. 172,000 have been committed to the system. That's the 75%. You need to split that up. One part is the people who have a month's pay. Most of them were paid for. The other part is waiting for people's declarations so they can get paid. That can also be done in that automated way, and that is now going to happen. That's why we said, "Go declare it." In fact, we say: even if it has not yet been fully agreed, we will declare it, because we will resolve that at the time we agreed. I'll come back to that later. Those are the numbers, so let's not confuse that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u74	20% of the 230,000 are month laborers. I don't think you're gonna get 59,000 payouts, but that's over. I agree with what Mrs Leijten has asked: is the Secretary of State prepared to give us a fact sheet and a timeline of what has passed between the decision of the beginning of 2012 to introduce the right of draw and 1 January last? I would like to have the following involved. In September 2014 the Sociale Verzekeringsbank decided to use the Scheme... What is it called again? Gee, now I've lost the name. What's that thing called again?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u75	I see you're carrying an iPad.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u76	Yeah, I brought my iPad. The Regulations... hey, hey, hey. I mean the new ICT system that all the different schemes, i.e. the AOW, child benefit and pgb, had to be implemented in one system. That's what they stopped doing. Cost 44 million, but that aside. That's what they stopped doing at the time. Will the Secretary of State also indicate in that timeline whether in all those reviews and gateways and audits there has been a review of that system or the cutting-edge system that the Social Insurance Bank still works with today? That is what the DOS control system has; that is important. Remember? That black screen with the flashing cursor?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u77	We are, of course, carrying out audits of the system as it should work in the normal operational conditions. It's kind of weird to audit for a system you're not gonna use anymore. I take it that's not what Mrs Keijzer means. I have tried to sketch the timelines as well as possible from 2012 until now. I've also sent the Chamber the audits. I also said what was done with it. I also said we have the gateway reviews. I will make a number of comments about this myself later. Then the Chamber should not ask: can we get that in writing again to look back? I outline how it went, because that's the way it always goes with the projects. Then we have to look at the problems and solve them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u78	This cabinet has no best reputation in providing all kinds of information that is required, and that is important here. In fact, at the Social Insurance Bank, there is always a barge between the new Multischemes system. I have just looked up what he has stopped doing and the building up of the existing system of the Social Insurance Bank. At some point it was decided to work with the Multi-scheme system. That failed, and then it's connected to the old system. What have you been looking at? When a representative of the Social Insurance Bank was asked on the radio this afternoon whether the system was not ready until December, he replied only: we were well prepared.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u79	In the scheme that Mrs Keijzer is talking about, the AOW is being done and so on. That's separate from the pgb system. The audits are aimed at looking at the functioning of the pgb system. Of course, it would be a bit odd to do an audit to see if the pgb works on a system you're not using. I hear Mrs Keijzer saying that anything can be done, but you could also say that we do not. This is separate from the pgb system. The audits aim to assess whether it is workable and feasible during the period in which it should be. We can now, of course, look back endlessly. We may come to that, but let us look at what we are now seeing and how we are going to solve this for the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u80	Madam President, you don't expect it from me, but I'd like to help the Secretary of State. I can see that people at home are looking very closely at this debate. I commend the Secretary of State for starting his contribution with apologies. Unfortunately at that moment the sound at home had just fallen out. Not only at the Social Insurance Bank you have occasional malfunctions, but also at our house. I notice there's a lot of tweeting about that. It's too bad the sound just went out.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u81	There's no record of that here. It's a good thing you've repeated it now. I think it's in the Acts, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u82	I think it is very sensible to look very quickly at the solutions to the problem that is now facing us. I also think it is important for the Secretary of State to explain this in his own words. We have all kinds of technical discussions about audits, reports and so on, but that is not the point. The question is: what went wrong? The plan was: we're gonna do it this way. We are now in a great chaos that affects a lot of people. I would very much like to hear a statement from the Secretary of State in understandable human language. Why did we end up in this chaos?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u83	I've already given some explanations. The first is the peak tax that has occurred in several chains, because a large number of healthcare contracts only led to alignment with the health offices in the municipality at the end of the year. As a result, the Sociale Verzekeringsbank was only able to switch late with all these health care contracts. The budget holders cannot do anything about that, because they had often sent everything in on time. But because of the peak load the chain hid; there was some kind of clot in it. The second explanation is that this can work because if the care contracts have not been approved in time, the declarations cannot go ahead either. That is why we have done two things. I shall now turn to the two actions which appear both in the previous letter and in this letter. Firstly, if there is no approved health care contract, let it be so that the Social Insurance Bank can continue to act, so that the approval can be put into the system so that you can declare. Secondly, if those care contracts aren't in there at all, you can also declare. It should not be the case that there is no healthcare contract and that you cannot declare it for that reason. The plug that is in it, namely the peak tax, has led us not to wait for the entire healthcare contract procedure to be completed and then you can only pay. We have said: do not do that now, but let the Social Insurance Bank solve the problem of the work stock and allow people to declare as normal as possible. In addition, we have ensured that people who receive a monthly wage are paid in January. That's the 58,000.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u84	I'm hearing some understandable things. You've got a gag. You have an unapproved agreement that you have to continue with in order to make the payments on time. This apparently, if I understand the Secretary of State correctly, did not come forward as a warning in the preliminary tests. If what the Secretary of State says is true, namely that at crucial moments there was no code red anymore, so that there was an agreement to proceed, then how could we have ended up in this situation? How is it now necessary to take emergency measures?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u85	This is possible because the system of approval and payment may work, but the filling must be correct. If that stuffing is not approved or not approved, then you can have a very good system, but that can't work. That was also a great irritation from the Social Insurance Bank. The bank got a call asking questions like, how can I declare? If the bank had not yet received the healthcare contract, employees could often only say: I cannot help you, because it may still be with the municipality or the healthcare office. What we have done now is to say to the Social Insurance Bank: Forget that chain dependence for what it is, just get it to you, clean up that work supply and make sure people can declare. You can have a very good operating system, but the system depends on the filling with papers, pieces and care contracts.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u86	Would you like to post a second interruption, Mrs Ellemeet?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u87	There we have it again, there we have the systems again...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u88	I know it's not customary, but I'd like to interrupt now. We have taken action. We said, "Don't sit around waiting for those care contracts to be approved, don't sit around waiting for it to get in the system, pay when people declare. We have done this because it is about people and not about systems.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u89	These are emergency measures to help people, I see that, but they come only at a time when it appears that a system is not enough because the people, the budget holders and the officials who have to work with it and who can make the system a success have not yet been ready for it. Is it not the responsibility of the Secretary of State that he also has a sense of and insight into whether not only the system is ready, but also whether the people who are going to use it are ready? That has not been demonstrated, and that explains why we are now in this situation. Didn't the Secretary of State fail in this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u90	I want to keep it clean. Of course, we are not going to ask if people are ready to fill the system.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u91	Of course I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u92	No, because the budget holders simply need to be able to file their declarations. The budget holders are not guilty of something not working properly. You notice that on the system side things are not quite going well with those care contracts and that budget holders are going to suffer from that. I have chosen to make a bypass on that system side, so that the budget holders do not suffer, precisely because I want people to be paid as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u93	The Secretary of State is talking about the emergency measures that have now been taken to resolve the acute need of budget holders. What matters to me is that the Secretary of State should have foreseen that the system could not work as long as the input needed for it, the agreements, the declarations and so on, could not yet be delivered in the way it was needed. So it turns out. That's a fact: it wasn't ready. We are in this crisis now. My question is again: I hope that I can get a more precise answer to it in what way the Secretary of State is concerned that the system has not been able to work as it has been intended so far and that it is now necessary to take emergency measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u94	In two ways. Firstly, the process of chain dependence, so that the system was filled with those care contracts, should have run faster. That means that care offices and municipalities could have sent in that stuff faster. Again, it's a major operation, but this has been a factor. Secondly, I would like to mention the long term, which, by the way, does not stand still. It's not just about whether the system works, it's about whether people can work with it a little easily, whether it's a little user-friendly. That's what I was talking about with the balance in it. You want to give flexibility and freedom to people on the one hand. That's what the pgb's for. On the other hand, you want control and accountability to remain intact. Then you run into all kinds of issues. If you want to set a budget, you have to calculate how many hours in it. Then people say: yes, but I don't get my sleep hours or my transport in the system very well. People say: I work in day-sharing, and that often isn't exactly four hours. So you have to constantly think about the question: do you need to change the system to make it even more user-friendly? My answer to that is yes. But at the same time you have to realize that you can't do this every day or every week. So we have to say the following. We're on it now. We have a number of solutions to these questions, and once we have collected them, we are going to improve the next version. That's the way we're going. This is not a defense of the system, not at all, because if it doesn't work properly, it doesn't work properly. But you have to see what you can do about it. On the one hand, we have said that we are making a number of bypasses for the people so that they can be declared. On the other hand, we must ensure that we learn from the situation and work on user-friendliness. With budget holders, Each (in) and Per Balance, everyone who wants to be involved, we need to think about how the system can be further developed and adapted, so that it is even closer to what people do and want. That will never be 100%, because we come from another system. That was: you get money, do your best, and we'll check later. Now we say, "Give what you want so you can make a statement." That's different. But, of course, I also want to maintain flexibility and freedom as much as possible, with few ex post controls. Requires that in the future adjustments in the system to make it more user-friendly and to take account of the improvement of what Mr Van 't Wout calls "the system through the eyes of the people," then of course. I feel very responsible for that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u95	We received some reports just before the debate. One of them is Gateway's second report. One of its recommendations is as follows: The system can be introduced; this seems feasible as of 1 January 2015. But the U.S. Department must remain responsible and be in charge. Does the Secretary of State agree? Is he going to do that and, if so, how?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u96	Yes. This means that we have de facto the chair of the project group. With monitors we see if all results are achieved. We are and will continue to work with all parties to do this. To illustrate this: in view of all the signals, we now carry out daily consultations with the parties concerned from the Ministry.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u97	We have seen with each other that there are many bottlenecks in the system. It does not offer the customization that fits a personalized budget. We have also seen that things go wrong in administration and communication. Does the Secretary of State say about all these matters: I feel responsible for them and I take control of them?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u98	Yeah, along with the parties that have to do it. However, let us establish with each other that the personal budget is something that needs to be carried out by health offices and municipalities. The Social Insurance Bank is the executive for them. That is why we need to talk to these parties about questions like the following. What functionalities do you want in it? How can we, together with Per Balance and Each, look at their wishes and demands? All this must be united in order to find a solution that offers flexibility and freedom on the one hand and control on the other. We will never have a system that is entirely tailored to Mr or Mrs A. We can, however, have a system that ensures that freedom and flexibility are maintained and that accountability and control can be exercised. Those are the two objectives that we must pursue with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u99	The original plan was to provide the new clients with a pgb via drawing rights as of July 2014 and the existing budget holders as of 1 January 2015. That wasn't feasible. Then it was chosen to do it all on 1 January. Why was it not decided at the time of its introduction to divide six months between the two groups, the old and the new, and to move the introduction to July next? One of the causes discussed is the peak load. I can imagine. But that is a choice made by the Secretary of State himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u100	With permission: in close consultation with the Chamber. I remember the previous care debate in which almost the entire Chamber said that I should introduce it a little earlier. At that time I said that introducing it earlier is a legitimate wish, but it does not seem sensible to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u101	The Chamber has also said: but it must be possible. The Court has always had its doubts as to whether the SVB could carry out that task. The Chamber may ask for it to be done a little faster, but there has always been the question whether it will succeed. The Chamber could say, "Do it all." But if it's irresponsible, it just shouldn't happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u102	Definitely Chairman. We had that discussion with each other and we said that we would do it as of 1 January 2015, with the Social Insurance Bank. That's when that process went on. Now we have to see how things are going and how we can solve the problems, but let's not say we haven't talked about them. Because we did, a couple of times.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u103	I didn't say that. I only asked why it was not chosen to start with new clients as of 1 January and to involve existing clients by mid-2015. That would have been an option, but it was not chosen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u104	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, On the one hand, there was a call for speed, but on the other hand it was said that it should be feasible. That's what all these investigations were all about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u105	I'm just gonna come back to those gateway tests. The Secretary of State accused me of being a little faint that I used the March signal, less than a year ago, in which the judgment was "not feasible or hardly feasible'. But now I'm using the September report. It states: it should be noted that the level of ambition of what will be implemented on 1 January 2015 focuses on the short-term technical and organisational feasibility rather than on the structural functioning of the system. What exactly was done with that at the Ministry?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u106	Two things. Because when developing such a new system you always have to consider what additional functionalities you bring in and when you need to start, we have said: If we want to implement this properly and make the system run, we have to stop at some point with the additional requirements that municipalities, for example, want certain functionalities. The municipalities weren't happy about that. On the other hand, we also had to say once to the budget holders, who also wanted other functionalities, which they thought were very important, that we were going to freeze the functionality for a while because otherwise we would not succeed in getting it implemented in a responsible way. This is always the case with ICT projects. The Chamber itself discussed this once again when it discussed ICT. However, the process does not end. At some point you say you freeze it, so you can enter it into technology. As I said just now, you have to keep thinking about whether the functionalities are correct. Municipalities will still have a number of wishes. It also applies, in particular, to budget holders, who say that they have regulated a certain degree of flexibility that they cannot lose in the system. It is very important for me to ensure that we maintain the balance between flexibility and control. So that will continue. There will be new releases of the system in which such things are solved. We must continue to sit at the table with parties on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u107	In other words, the failure of the system at the Social Insurance Bank was predicted. Deloitte says that there has been no independent review of the system and that it has not been developed SMART. The Secretary of State acknowledges here that municipalities and budget holders were not satisfied with the way the system worked. And we're gonna change it all now. Wouldn't it have been better, overlooking all this, just to say: we've already postponed it once and we're putting it off again? If you're gonna improve now, running the procedures that are already stalling, you're gonna create a new problem. Is the Secretary of State prepared to choose the next solution now? Pgb holders pay their own people. Solve the ICT problems with all partners. Then enter it staged. Is he willing to do that? Or was it more important to get the date and then see where the ship is stranded?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u108	With permission, the solution proposed by Mrs Leijten would not be sensible. The current situation is that payments have been made, namely monthly payments. That 59 grand did the system. Moreover, there are now 117.000 contracts in the system on which people declare. In fact, these declarations are now in progress; 1,100 were submitted yesterday. The best way to make sure people get their money is that system. If we stop and switch now, then we have to get together the giro numbers of all the budget holders to see if they can pay. That wouldn't be wise.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u109	I'd like to come back to the monthly wages. We hear from pgb-holders that they still haven't been paid out. The Secretary of State says that a bypass is now being made, so that people are paid out, even though the health care agreements have not been approved. If you're gonna look at that afterwards, you're actually gonna do what we didn't want, which we wanted to get rid of, but okay. The question is to what extent this is actually being carried out. I would almost say: do the people who are on the phone at the SVB know this too? It is still full of pgb-holders' comments that they are always confronted with answers such as 'we do not know', 'you must be somewhere else', 'we cannot answer that now' and 'you will be called back'. That keeps going on and on. I would very much like to know from the Secretary of State when this is over.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u110	I hope it's over already. There was indeed a time when these agreements had to be made, when we said: we are going to do so of our own accord and we are going to make sure that these things happen, even though they have not been approved. The agreements that have been made must be implemented. This will indeed mean that not all those employees who are on the phone know all this. The question is also whether they can see into the system. That's scaled up now. The working instructions have been modified. Things like this always go wrong, and you'll see that too, but it's happening as well as possible now, including the communication side. We are trying to help people who run into all kinds of issues, for example because there is a tick in the back, and who are wondering what to do now. I'll come back to this later. Over the last few days I have looked at what we can do on the communication side with the Social Insurance Bank, Per Balance and Each. Mrs Dijksta quite rightly referred to this point. The communication must go well now. When people run into something, they just need to hear from someone: no problem, go ahead and declare, we'll make sure it's okay and if you can't declare electronically, we'll give you an envelope with the declaration form. That's the kind of thing that needs to happen right now. By the way, I want to correct something. I just said that 1,100 declarations had been filed by now, but there are 11,000.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u111	The Secretary of State's letter refers to 600 declarations paid out. The Secretary of State is now saying that 11,000 declarations have been filed. When will they be paid? It says that it will happen in five or ten days at the latest, but that is what it is all about today: how do the pgb-holders know for sure that it will be in their bank account? There are also stories of people getting amounts that they haven't declared or filed at all and stories of wrong bank account numbers. In short, what guarantee can the Secretary of State give that it will be all right now? And why is it gonna be okay now?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u112	First of all, because these 171,000 healthcare contracts are now in the system. If a declaration comes in, you can link it to it and you can pay. This follows the regular declaration process. The Social Insurance Bank has indicated to me that the declaration in that process, depending on whether it is transmitted in writing or via ICT, can be paid on average in five working days. If the health care contracts are not in the system or have not yet been approved, the Social Insurance Bank will ensure that it still happens. That is the elimination of that stock so that it takes place within a period of about 10 working days. Are there any guarantees for that? The Social Insurance Bank indicates that this is the effort they want to make. They're estimating that this is gonna work, too. Let us simply agree that we are following this. I can imagine that the Chamber would need to know after that ten-day period has come to an end whether it has succeeded. In the coming period, the declarations will increase. The Social Insurance Bank is responsible for dealing with the declarations submitted between five and ten working days. Hopefully we will see an increasing number of declarations and each declaration will be settled within five days. Have all the declarations been processed within ten days? No, because every day new claims come in. If it is right, we will see an increase in the number of declarations and the deadline for dealing will be between five and ten days. Mrs Dijkstra also asks how she can rely on this. Given all the unrest, uncertainty and discussions, I can imagine that many budget holders say: nice story, but first see and then believe. Why don't we put all the cards on that? That's what I think. We can agree, we can make bypasses and we can say that everything is in the system, but the proof of the pudding is ultimately in the eating. In the end, we will simply have to conclude whether or not we can do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u113	The Secretary of State has made it clear where it went wrong, namely at the end of the year when the health care contracts were put in place. That's an important explanation. Then, over the last few days, we saw a new clot coming from people who complain, call and try to log in. The system is also not designed to process all of this. I understand the solution that has been mentioned with the redirects, but is it sufficient to process the clot that has arisen in the last few days from all the people who report with questions, complaints, etc.?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u114	The communication side is also scaled up. The people who are paid in the regular way end up in that system. If there are problems, the rapid response plays a role. Not for the large bulk that has to be solved through the system, but if there are specific problems. Yesterday, there was a report that the site was out of the sky and people couldn't turn up. Every two minutes we examine the performance of the system. That system had not noticed that the site was down. The site was probably down, but that was in that two-minute period. Let us find ourselves in a situation where the system can handle it and where people are paid on time. Of course there are occasional hiccups, but yesterday's story that the site was down all day doesn't add up. I can imagine that you sometimes have negative experiences, but those expectations are not always fulfilled. I understand budget holders very well when they say: fine all, nice stories and beautiful bypasses, but first see and then believe. The SVB is working incredibly hard to make that happen. Let's see it and follow it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u115	It is clear that it must now be realized. Expectations have been raised before that not everyone could live up to. A lot's gone wrong. It's very exciting now. What is proposed as a solution must really land quickly. Then we must also look at how we can further improve the system, except through short-term redirects. We received a letter from Each (in) and Per Balance, in which they call for a good execution test, also aimed at sustainability. Is that what the Secretary of State has in mind? Is it possible to agree with the organisations concerned on what this test should look like so that there is no unnecessary noise?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u116	The short answer is yes. The debate on how we are going to create this freedom is and will remain there. At the same time, it must be verifiable and accountable. It can always be that what a budget holder has agreed doesn't fit well in the system. Then we should not say that the system is leading, but then we should think about how we are going to solve it. The success we still have to make is not just an emergency solution to achieve these payments. We need to think together and continue to think about how we can move that balance forward towards a system that serves the people and not the other way around.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u117	I'll come back to the computer system anyway. When you hear the Secretary of State, you get the feeling that everything has really been thought about in advance. Then you think to yourself: how can things go so wrong? Today's letter from the Secretary of State states that Gateway's review team considered that the date of 1 January 2015 for implementation of the set level of ambition for the system of drawing rights pgb was feasible. Can the Secretary of State inform the Chamber of the level of ambition set? I do not understand why we now have problems with parental initiatives, small-scale housing, transport costs that cannot be declared and hours that cannot be declared. That doesn't make it right in the IT system, does it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u118	There are two things that are mixed up now. At some point in your system you need to set an ambition level for the functionalities you're going to automate and put it into a system. Then you have to say to some of the wishes of municipalities, health offices or budget holders: not right now, because now we have to make sure that the implementation is going well. That's the level of ambition. Then you have to say at some point: with this level of ambition it is feasible. The parties can then say: that is a pity, because I really had another wish that I would have preferred to have in it. That can be done, but that must be done in a new version, otherwise we will find ourselves in the implementation problems. That's kind of acidic, by the way, every now and then. We all have these experiences with ICT projects, and we will notice that. Mrs Keijzer also said that there were problems with residential initiatives. That's the next reason. If a budget holder, a health care provider, cannot declare, for example because his care contact is not in the system, then the care provider in the home initiative cannot be paid out either. That is why we have said that we must ensure that we can always declare. The monthly wages must be paid. That happened in January. We are also doing a sweeping action to ensure that any other cases are taken into account. That happens this week, by the way. Furthermore, we ensure that people can submit their declaration so that individuals and residential initiatives using the budgets of individuals are paid for. I'm not making that distinction. Let me give you the example of the Thomas Houses. In doing so, we discussed whether there were any specific problems to be solved. That was then agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u119	My feeling is that the Secretary of State is heading for the setting sun on the horizon.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u120	That's always good.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u121	It is beautiful, the image is great, but the budget holders of course are not helped with this. I want to hear what has been said in advance to the IT builders about the standard framework. Is it said to them: this must be in the system because that is what pgbs look like? I understand the Secretary of State doesn't have that in his back pocket, but I'd like to receive that. We are faced with a solution today, but I also want to know what went wrong between 2012 when the decision was taken to introduce the right of draw and the chaos we came together for today.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u122	With permission, you're suggesting it a little too simple. If you start a pgb system, there is no standard framework that you say: we set it here and if you meet it, then the system works. That is precisely the crux of the introduction of the right to draw. It used to be that you got an advance that you were gonna take care of. Then you went back to see if it was true. We have said that there are a number of disadvantages with regard to both the control methodology and the administrative burden and the possibilities of improper use, with mediation agencies and so on. In relation to the drawing rights, we say: you have a care contract and on that basis you can declare. The question arises as to whether the care contracts can be made good and which functionalities should be included in them. Is everything that has been done so far also to be placed in the system? You have to compromise on that. I remember Mrs Saers van Per Recht said: if you look at what is going on in the field with budget holders, it will be extremely difficult in some areas, such as transport, to declare it and get it into the system. At some point you have to decide: what do we do now and what do we do later? You can't say there's a wish and it has to be in the system, and if it's not in the system, then the system doesn't add up. That wouldn't be good either.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u123	In the beginning, the Secretary of State indicated in which blocks he would reply. I think it's getting a little messed up right now. I would just like to ask this question, following on from what we were talking about: how do we deal with healthcare providers such as housing initiatives, who are in trouble because the budget holders are not getting money? This is in two respects: the continuity of business, but also the fear of a fine if you transfer salaries and premiums too late. I have also drawn attention to this in my term. Maybe the Secretary of State can go into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u124	In essence, we should not, of course, distinguish between tailor-made solutions, which should be possible for individuals when they are stuck, and care initiatives, which are co-dependent on individuals who receive a budget. This is already happening in practice. For example, care initiatives are sometimes consulted to see whether or not they are in trouble. As far as I am concerned, they are part of these tailor-made solutions, if they are at issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u125	I'd like to know how your story is built.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u126	I'm gonna go switch. A number of actions have been taken; what results have they achieved? I will talk about progress, monitoring and evaluation. Then I will come to the specific questions, which I hope have already been answered in part.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u127	And they've been treated through interruptions. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u128	The measures taken so far have led to a number of payments being made and to take place. 59,000 people have now been paid by the Social Insurance Bank. Those are the month laborers. The last monthly payments that have not yet been paid for any reason will be paid within five or ten working days. We have taken separate measures to ensure that these payments are made. The next phase of payments concerns February, the regular month in which the declarations are to be made. The Social Insurance Bank indicates that in most cases they can be dealt with within five days and lead to payment; in other cases they must be able to do so within 10 days. I have just said that I can imagine that the reasoning is to see first, then to believe. That goes for me, too. I do note that there are incredibly loud calls, including at the Social Insurance Bank; that there is a great deal of attention to the people who call and are under great pressure there. So let us do the Social Insurance Bank's job to ensure that good results can be achieved. There's a lot of pressure at the Social Insurance Bank. I would like to say just how incredibly hard work is being done there. I realize that this doesn't help the budget holder who hasn't gotten his money yet, but I'm committed to saying that again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u129	This has also been said by several Members of the Chamber, I think it is right. I just see a news site that indicates the SVB: from now on we will publish the progress of the payments on our website. I wonder what that means. It seems to me to be a sensible model in itself that shows you very openly where you stand in your entire stream, also to regain the confidence that people should have in such an implementing body. Is that what this is all about? I do not know if the Secretary of State has already seen it; otherwise he may come back to it later. As far as transparency is concerned, how do we progress, not only at individual level, but also at macro level?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u130	I haven't seen it physically yet, but I knew they were going to. I think it's a good idea, too. It is very good to show transparently how this production works, so that everyone can see: are things going well or are things not going well? That applies not only to us here, but also to the outside. A number of interventions have been made, a number of bypasses made to ensure that people can be paid. This leads to timely payment after declaration, within five to ten days, and the working stock being used up. The Social Insurance Bank has indicated that it can manage within two weeks. Customised solutions are possible if people get into trouble for whatever reason due to payment problems and what is more. It is important that, in the field of information to the budget holders, I have made arrangements with Per Recht and Each (in) to ensure that we do that information through the eyes of the budget holders as much as possible. Let's face it: I think it is very important that Per Balance and Each one can make their sound heard. They also make that out loud and clear from time to time. I think their constituents can be proud of them, because they really are harassing us with questions, information and wishes. That's good, because that keeps us sharp. Let us also use their knowledge and skills to ensure that this information can be given in a good way. As far as I'm concerned, we're going to rank the frequently asked questions, or all the questions that budget holders have, in a good way and give them back to the budget holders. They don't have to call all of them, but they can just look things up so that they know in good time what exactly is going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u131	Before I give Mrs Dijkstra the floor, does anyone know if there is noise outside? The point made by Mr Krol... Is that settled in the meantime?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u132	It's been solved by now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u133	When I look at the number of Twitter messages the MPs get as always, it has to be fixed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u134	Good. I would also like to apologize for the fact that it did not go well at first.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u135	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm glad the Secretary of State is still able to follow the Twitter messages.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u136	That's very convenient for me. Then I can see what questions you're going to ask.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u137	See, that saves the interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u138	I am curious to hear the answer to my question. The Secretary of State praises the client interest groups for their positions and says that they have stood up very strongly for their supporters. They've been doing that for a long time. They have done so in the preliminary stages of this right of draw. To what extent has that been taken into account in the whole process? Also Per Recht and Elke have of course pointed out very early that this could cause problems, also the customization around the pgb that we are always talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u139	Maybe too little. I just mentioned the balance between flexibility and freedom on the one hand and control and accountability on the other. These are considerations in which Per Recht and Each (in) say for their supporters: we want to have as much as possible that customized side in it, otherwise we think that the budget holders are going to have trouble filling in and declaring and that it is all going to be difficult. That's right. It's always gonna be a trade-off. That is why I believe that in this further discussion on how to make the system even more user-friendly and human-friendly tailor-made, they should, of course, be heard very well. Be assured, they have done so loud and clear and I think they will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u140	I hope that the Secretary of State will listen better to these organisations in future. I hear that in the steering group led by VWS there are all kinds of organisations, the VNG and so on. In addition, the Secretary of State said, there was a lot of contact with Each (in) and Per Balance. That triggered me. I was wondering why they weren't on that steering committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u141	That's a bit of a trade-off. I would like to talk about this with Each (in) and Per Balance, because there is the most knowledge of budget holders. I imagine we're using that knowledge of the users to get some things done. However, they must also ensure that they do not become unnecessarily co-responsible for the decisions surrounding the system. That's a trade-off they have to make. Per Balance is a member of the Steering Committee and has been closely involved. However, not all wishes could be met. I think that we should also talk to them about what is the best position for them, as a user in which we use their knowledge and skills or as a co-decision-maker for the further development of the system. I can't choose them, but I'm very willing to see with them what the best positioning is for the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u142	I think the pgb-holders need, in particular, certainty that they want to know what they're up to. I just heard the Secretary of State say he's making a list of the most frequently asked questions. It is a good thing that it is written mainly from the perspective of budget holders, not in official language, but in human language. Actually, it should just be on that website tonight or tomorrow, so people really know what to do if they don't have an approved contract or if they can't declare in minutes, but in a day or with a transport state. People really need to know what to do and what to do. In my view, removing that uncertainty is extremely important. That is quite simple and must be possible quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u143	I am not quite sure, but I think that during this debate there is contact between people from Per Recht and Each (in) and from the Social Insurance Bank to see exactly what questions it is about and how it can best be made known to the budget holders. Your suggestion is therefore quite justified. It needs to be arranged quickly. The information should also be updated when questions from budget holders come in again. That is now being worked on very hard.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u144	They're working hard on it right now, but can people just see what they're up to tonight or tomorrow?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u145	I didn't get the results of that meeting. As soon as possible. I dare not say what decisions they are making with each other now, but as soon as possible. Then I would like to discuss a number of topics before I come up with some specific questions about monitoring, providing information to clients, evaluating and looking from the budget holder. I've already mentioned it a little bit. Firstly, we are now monitoring very closely over the coming period how everything we have agreed on is going to land and what the results are. I am well aware that this debate is not over. I can imagine that the Chamber of mine would like to have information on progress. I myself imagine that, after the end of that period, I will sort of inform the Chamber and answer the question: what has become of it and what is the state of affairs of these agreements? I would add that to what Mr Van 't Wout said: the information the Social Insurance Bank itself publishes. Secondly, it is a matter of providing information to clients. We've already talked about that. Mr Van Dijk just asked about that. Together with the organisations of budget holders, we are going to ensure that this information goes to the budget holders in a good way. Thirdly, a number of Members of Parliament asked: should we not evaluate this? I'm also in favour of looking at that. We do have some ideas here about how it happened and how it happened. There are some ideas about what to do. I would like to add one thing. I would like to do that, too, but let us do so so that we do not disrupt this process and allow people to receive their payment. I really want to do that, but we should not call on the Social Insurance Bank again, which we need so much to solve these problems. I agree with the idea, but let us take a look at the form and timing to ensure that the process in which everything really needs to be done is done properly and not disturbed. Fourthly, let us make sure that we think carefully about how the system can be further adapted and how we can introduce that flexibility even further, so that it becomes even more user-friendly through the eyes of the budget holder. We have discussed this in terms of evaluation with Mrs Dijkstra and others. Then I come to a number of specific questions, as far as they have not yet been dealt with. So I'm gonna have to go through it real quick. Mrs Keijzer's question about the timeline, the rapid response and the number of healthcare contracts I thought I answered. The same applies to Mrs Leijten's question as to how these reports turned out. That's the same as the timeline. I also responded to her suggestion: shouldn't you go ahead? Eventually, the best advance will be to pay those claims. That is very important, because that is what is most useful for people at the moment. She also asked: is it true that 170,000 health care contracts have not been paid out? That's not true. Part of it's paid out: 58.000. And part of it is now ready so that it can be declared.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u146	If I hate something, it's that the Secretary of State says something's wrong, while I'm just taking the numbers out of his letter. He says about 229,000 healthcare agreements have been received. Indeed, 75% of this has been processed. This has resulted in payments not being made at 75%, no, 59 000 have been paid out. 229.000 minus 59.000 is 170,000 that have not been paid. They've been approved, but they haven't paid out.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u147	Do we understand each other well?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u148	The Secretary of State is magical with numbers. He can do that. He may cause confusion with that, but if I say something on the basis of his letter and he says that that's not true, I won't stand for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u149	Let's see if we understand each other. Those care contracts were put into the system. That's the 75%. Part of it's paid for. Those are the monthly wagers, so they just get payments every month. The other part shall be paid on declaration. That means they're paid when people file. That process is now going to run, because you are now going to get the declarations of the work carried out in January. That's how it goes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u150	The moment you want to make a comment that you're not supposed to make in this house, you say: with all due respect. Well, I'm saying that now with exclamation points. It is not true that only a quarter of those 229.000 people who provide care through the pgb, is a month's wager. That can't be true. Why do people have a pgb? Because they want their immediate caregivers and want to take control of themselves, so that there aren't too many people coming to their homes and their lives, which you often see with regular care. I would therefore like to ask the Secretary of State for evidence to suggest that 75% of the people who work according to the pgb do so on a declaration basis and not on a monthly basis. Otherwise, I would suggest that we give the Secretary of State half an hour to send that information to us, because this is not true, apart from all the messages we get during the debate. This is what the grassroots follow. By e-mail, I'm not getting paid in the month's pay, while the Secretary of State here says they've all been paid. I want the data clear now. 75% of the people who work through a pgb only work on a declaration basis? That's what he's saying here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u151	No, 75% of the care contracts have been introduced into the system. You can make a difference. Some of the people have a fixed monthly wage. That means they're gonna be paid and paid, except for a pick, and they're gonna get a fixed monthly pay. So it goes on every month. A large proportion of cases take place on a declaration basis. Sometimes it is also about people who do have wages but on the basis of hours worked that need to be declared flexibly. So on the one hand you have the regular monthly wagers, who have been paid as much as possible and who still have some sweeps to get that all done...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u152	Mr President,......................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u153	Don't talk through it, or people won't be able to follow it. I suggest the Secretary of State completes his sentence. Then Mrs Leijten gets her last chance to say something and then it's done.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u154	I have also reported to the Chamber before: the monthly wagers known to the Social Insurance Bank have all been paid; these are the 59.000. In the event that care contracts are still in place that involve a month's wager, we agreed that this would be done in an extra sweeping action on 6 February. I wrote that in the letter. The other people are paid on a declaration basis, as always. It's new that they don't get an advance, but a budget with a declaration. This is happening from 1 February, of which 11,000 have now been submitted.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u155	Finally, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u156	It has already been said that most of the monthly wages have been paid as much as possible. So it's not like all the month laborers are paid. As the Secretary of State has just said, as he has said very often, everything will be fine and pgb-holders will have as little concern as possible. I'm asking the Secretary of State for the following. Can he send the timeline to the Chamber before 12 noon on Monday, with information on when he was warned about problems, what actions were followed and what was done? Mrs Keijzer and I have asked for this. That's factual information. In addition, I ask the State Secretary to send information which shows exactly what the relationship is with the care contracts; how many monthly wages are involved, how many people on a declaration basis? This will enable us to carry out our monitoring task.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u157	That is why we have a debate. I am sending you a letter, and on that basis you will ask a number of questions that I am trying to answer as best I can. I do. We are also discussing the figures and the timeline. After we've all done that, you ask me to write that down again. Then why are we having this debate?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u158	170,000 care contracts have not been paid out. That is what I have consistently said. The Secretary of State says that makes sense, because it's all people who work on a declaration basis. In the interrupting debate about that, he is already a bit back. There's just a lack of clarity about the numbers. In order to monitor properly whether these people are paid within five to ten days, we need that information. Before the trial, I think it is only natural that the Secretary of State should provide the Chamber with the following information if two parliamentary groups ask: how exactly did it go, when was the Secretary of State warned and what action has been taken?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u159	That is what we did in the debate. You asked questions about that. I tried to answer it as best I could. That is the way we could deal with each other. D66 has asked if we can get back to the old system. Theoretically everything is possible, but we should not do so now, because then we will be much more delayed in payments. For this, we need to move on to advances whose figures we need to know again. That is not in the interests of the budget holders. The question raised by the spokesperson of D66 as to whether the client organisations have sufficient influence on the further development of the system, I think I have also answered. For that, I want to clear a generous place. I'll take a look at the questions that haven't been answered. Mrs Dijkstra asked me if there were any problems with the payment of pgb holders under the Health Insurance Act. I don't know them yet, but that doesn't mean they're not here. The approximately 8,400 existing budget holders who had the employer function carried out by the Social Insurance Bank were already largely in the system of the Social Insurance Bank. At the moment, such signals have not yet reached me. If Mrs Dijkstra does have those signals, I would like to receive them so that I can check them out. I was talking about the Health Insurance Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u160	The Secretary of State says if there are any signals, I'd like to receive them. I'll send them over. However, it is another serious point that is being raised. There are several people I'm getting those signals from. I wonder how the Secretary of State judges it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u161	I take all the signals seriously. I can't say in advance that it's true or wrong. I'm assuming people have a reason to give a signal that they're worried. That means we have to look at that. So when Mrs. Dijkstra gets those signals, I'm gonna take a look at it. I take them seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u162	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u163	It has been asked whether the Social Insurance Bank can send an acknowledgement of receipt. A receipt will be sent after an e-mail. And yes, it has been one and a half hours out of the sky because there had to be an update of the e-mail. If the care agreement is established, a confirmation letter will be sent through the traditional post. I think I have already answered the question as to whether we are going to follow closely whether these five to ten-day payment periods are being met. I will also send information on this to the Chamber myself, in so far as the Social Insurance Bank does not already provide information on its website, as Mr Van 't Wout said. I'll come to the corrections. If we now have some bypasses, how are we going to correct them afterwards? Mrs Ellemeet has made a number of comments on this subject, which are quite right. We will have to do so in close consultation with municipalities, health offices and budget holders, so that we can communicate very well when we apply or have to apply corrections. It must be clear that it is corrections that come from municipalities and health offices. They must ensure that it is understood. Nor should it cause problems for the budget holders. The reports are now that, to the extent that corrections should be made, they will take place before 1 April, so that it can be revised if necessary. Again, we will do so in very close consultation with municipalities, health offices and organisations of budget holders. I believe that I have already answered Mrs Dik-Faber's questions about the pgb testing system and its further development. The choices made were also necessary to implement them. However, this does not mean that further development does not need to take place. There is much to improve and make customer-friendly. We will also do this in close consultation with budget holders, municipalities and healthcare offices. Mr Van der Staaij said that I would just paraphrase it - the following: please note that...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u164	Finish your sentence first.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u165	...you don't choose solutions that may, in retrospect, encourage improper use again. That's quite right. For example, if there is a payment that cannot be based on a care contract, suppose that would still be the case, then the Social Insurance Bank will carry out a number of checks to see if that payment can be legally made. Is mister or ma'am in the system? Was there a care plan back in the day? Does the care office or the municipality know that person? If you make such a payment, then you are in any case sure that payment is made to the good person and is lawful. I am not saying that there could be no hiccups, but of course we do not say: we pay and we will see afterwards. We'll run some checks on it in advance. It is a very valid point that Mr Van der Staaij raised.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u166	I'll come back to the Secretary of State's response to my questions. I thought it was, frankly, going a little too fast. My plea was about humanizing the system. That was the key point. I mentioned the example of a father of a young-aged disabled son. He had filled out that he is "observer." That was wrong. It was supposed to be there: representative. Only weeks later he got the care contract back with the request to modify it. For me, that is just an example. There are more examples. These are examples of the fact that the system is central and not human. What is the Secretary of State going to do to bring more people into the system?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u167	First of all, I am going to listen very carefully to how budget holders have dealt with their concerns and what wishes they have with regard to the system. At the risk of going too far on this example, I shall say something about it. If we say that the budget has to be paid out to the budget holder, so the person who takes care or the administrator who does this for him or her, and someone writes that he is an observer, that leads to a hesitation: to whom do we pay the money now? Of course, it must not be the case that one wrong word means that people do not hear anything for weeks. We agree on that. Here again you see the dilemma: what controls are needed to achieve good accountability and where is the freedom for budget holders to ensure that they can take care as they wish? Firstly, therefore, we must listen carefully to the budget holders in order to find out which system improvements can be made. Secondly, one word in the administration should not lead to a false conclusion. I very much agree with Mrs Dik-Faber. The primary point is that we listen carefully to the budget holders to hear how they have arranged it and what wishes they have.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u168	Mrs Dik-Faber, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u169	We're gonna listen carefully, but there's already been a lot of suffering. People have had a lot of uncertainty and uncertainty. They were in suspense. None of that would have been necessary if we had immediately ensured that not the system was central, but the question of care. What time is the Secretary of State giving himself, together with the other partners, to solve this problem? There has been a great deal of suffering and I want to prevent this from happening for a long time. This just needs to be solved.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u170	So that is a discussion that we must have very fundamental. I'll try to put it another way. The average pgb in the Wmo is about €15,000 and in the Wlz about €45,000. At some point, the person who grants the budget must decide that he grants €15,000 or €45,000. What do you want to know to make sure this is going a little well? On the one hand, you have to give a lot of confidence and flexibility to the budget holder, because he is asking for the pgb for that reason. The question then quickly arises as to how high the budget is to be set, how high the rate is and what the rate is for. That's the kind of question you come up with. I think we can still make a big deal out of that. That's what we're really gonna do in the next period. My priority now is to ensure that payments are properly made, so that the system reaches a stable stage. At the same time, we need to consider how the system can be further humanised. As far as I am concerned, this is not a day later than is necessary, but it requires careful and in particular good consultation with all those involved, who will have different wishes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u171	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u172	I think I have answered Mr Van Dijk's questions about the payments.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u173	Mr Van Dijk nods.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u174	The same applies to the questions he and Mrs Dik-Faber asked about the accessibility and communication of the SVB. Over the past period, the Social Insurance Bank has scaled up maximum capacity. There are 120 extra people on the phone permanently. Last week, 40,000 calls came in. Sometimes there are times when the system can handle a little more. I have also spoken to the client organisations about this and asked them what they think is the best way to deal with the questions. They indicated that you must ensure that frequently asked questions are captured in advance. For the questions that remain, you must make sure that one does not get passed on too much by someone who receives the call but cannot say anything else. Make sure the call comes in to the person who can say anything about it, or tell them when to call. If phone calls are received by people who cannot answer the questions, that leads to more frustration than you do in a different way. We will take that suggestion to heart. The Social Insurance Bank is working on it. The questions surrounding the housing initiatives and the healthcare providers have, I think, been answered. If customisation is needed, this applies not only to individuals but also to residential initiatives. This means that there will be contact with the SVB and that there will be relations with the healthcare office and the municipality if there are problems. A solution is then sought, which is therefore also accessible to healthcare providers. Mr Van 't Wout has asked how we will improve ICT and accessibility in the short term. I've been talking about the accessibility. I think the basic capacity is now reasonably in order. This does not mean that the Social Insurance Bank should not and should not be able to scale up if necessary. This has also happened a few times around the accessibility. The same applies to server capacity, just to put it in technical jargon. When large numbers of declarations are made, this capacity can also be increased if necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u175	I asked another question about the rapid response team, the solve team. Does that team have the authority to push the payment button and push the payment button? I'm getting signals that this last one's a little tricky. If you see a problem at some point, it has to be solved urgently and quickly. Then that team must also have the perseverance to do that right. According to the Secretary of State, is that the same?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u176	The short answer is yes. The long answer is: that must be the case and I will make an explicit assessment of whether that is the case. Because the answer is yes, it has to be. As it is now arranged, the people sitting there have the power to make the payment appointment very quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u177	That is good, because if there is an urgent problem, it must, of course, be analyzed and resolved urgently, and it must also be paid out. I am therefore pleased with the answer given by the Secretary of State to this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u178	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u179	There were a few comments from Mr Krol. He asked what I think the National Ombudsman is going to do. I think that's a good thing. It is no problem that the National Ombudsman wants to investigate how things have turned out. I appreciate that, too. We will wait and learn lessons from them when they are on the agenda. Mr President, this was my first-term contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u180	Not quite. One of the issues that the Secretary of State believes should be addressed is that rapid response team. I have asked who exactly is eligible for this. Where can people come in? Is that the 170,000 that still haven't paid? What's it look like?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u181	I'm trying to put it a little simpler. There are, quite simply, three categories of people who can get a payment. The first category consists of permanent wage-earners. As I said, they've been paid for the most part and there's gonna be another sweep to see if there's anyone left in there. That's what my letter says. The second group are the people who are going to declare on the basis of the approved healthcare contract that is in the systems. That's the 113,000, so the 170,000 minus the 58,000. They're gonna make a declaration and they're gonna be paid in the system. If the contract is in the system, it will be between now and five working days. If it takes a little longer because one has to look for things, it happens within now and ten days. The agreement is that the declaration submitted will be paid within five to ten days. Suppose it doesn't all work out, that it doesn't get into the system and that people have to wait for their money for that reason, then that leads to problems of any kind. A few have already been mentioned. Then there is the rapid response team, which can deliver customization and, so to speak, press the payment button for individuals to make sure that people don't get into trouble. So, if it's right, by far most people can be captured in the payment system itself. If there is still business, or other problems, then there is also a team that can deliver customization very individually. But it's really custom-made, so I can't say in advance what problems they are; that's gonna have to prove. Then it's not about the 170,000, because if it's okay, their declaration just has to be paid within five to ten days.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u182	Mrs Keijzer, finally. What a sigh!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u183	Yes, Mr. Chairman. This is making me a little despondent. So monthly wagers are not allowed to report, because the Secretary of State assumes that they will be paid. People who are to be paid on a declaration basis may not report in the first ten days after the declaration. Well, who's gonna check in? And where can they report in? I would very much like to be able to give an answer to all those people who are watching this debate today or who are sending us e-mails over the next few days.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u184	I just said there are three categories. The people with a fixed monthly wage should simply be paid regularly. For the monthly wager with a fixed monthly wage that has not yet been paid, there is another sweep. That's gonna take care of it this week. That's what I just said. However, someone may say: I'm not in the system at all; I called, but I don't get a month's pay. Those people can go to customization. Most of the people who declare are paid for their declaration within five days. That's the deal. If more needs to be sorted out, they'll be paid for the declaration within ten days. Even so, there may be people for whom it doesn't work, who didn't succeed or who ended up in the systems. For those people, it's customization. It has not been said who may or may not appeal to it. All people who are not paid through the regular systems are entitled to use it. All efforts are made to pay the monthly wages and to pay the claims within five to ten working days. Everyone will agree that we must work together to achieve this. If all this is not possible and there are problems, there is also a tailor-made provision. This is actually similar to the way we did it with the Wlz-indicables at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u185	Finally, Mrs Keijzer, because you also have a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u186	Yes, chairman, I'm just gonna cut this and paste it into a piece on my site. Then people can see if they're covered. Now I come to the key question. Where can they report in? Now it's kind of a... amorphic thing, floating something. I want a phone number or an e-mail address.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u187	That's just the Social Insurance Bank.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u188	Yeah, but they're not gonna get through that, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u189	I had asked the Secretary of State in my first term what the trajectory of all those self-approved declarations and agreements would look like in the long term. It's kind of a big decision. Don't get me wrong, it's intense and there are risks. Mr Van der Staaij has just outlined it. We do not, of course, want it all to happen too soon, so to speak, and we do not want it to happen again when the Social Insurance Bank says, on the basis of false information, that this declaration is not correct. What does this look like in time? How can we guarantee that we will not have to have the same discussion as we have today?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u190	Would it be an idea for me to state in what way we are going to do that with each other in the state of affairs report?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u191	I think that's an excellent idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u192	People can report to the SVB. I regret to say that this is an understatement that this is not always possible. Mails come back, phone calls aren't handled properly and letters go missing. In my first term, I asked the Secretary of State what he was going to do about it. I am pleased that an item "frequently asked questions" is now on the website, but we are talking about customization and interhuman contact. How can we ensure that this is improved?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u193	I have already indicated that the capacity to have contacts has been scaled up. Let us also note that there is a delay in the answers when a lot of people are calling. Mrs Dik-Faber will understand that. At the same time, a lot of calls are made. If you have such a problem, you shouldn't be transferred to someone who says, "I'll call you back." If such a problem is at issue, you must be automatically forwarded to the team that can deliver customization. Those agreements were made internally at the Social Insurance Bank. Let us note that this must work and make sure that it actually works in this way. If we start looking for a solution with each other now and tell the people that they can't call the Social Insurance Bank anymore, then we can't do anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u194	I think it is very important that people can go to the Social Insurance Bank. That is where the problem has to be solved, but we have said to each other that the Secretary of State has responsibility for the whole system. I think it is very important that we are on top of that to ensure that it works. About a week I want to hear that the questions are being dealt with properly. People shouldn't have to wait days or weeks or even hear nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u195	I had already promised to think about the question of which monitor we can send to the Chamber so that we can keep an eye on each other about the handling of declarations, with telephone access, with the performance of the Social Insurance Bank. It seems to me very good to inform the Chamber regularly so that she can see if the process is going well.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u196	In addition to Mrs Dik-Faber and Mrs Keijzer, I have received a number of reports during the debate from people who, when they are finally through, are in contact with the Social Insurance Bank and are told that their declaration is not being paid out because their healthcare agreement has not yet been processed. I think it was one of the solutions that would happen, but apparently this is not known to the Social Insurance Bank. When will this be communicated with the Social Insurance Bank? Suppose people get into trouble and want to use the rapid response team. In that case, the employees of the Social Insurance Bank must know that they can refer to it. Otherwise, people won't end up there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u197	I sent a letter with the appointments we made. We are talking about it now. This means that the Social Insurance Bank is now translating these agreements into internal working instructions and into site adjustments. There is consultation with Each (in) and Per Balance to see how the communication should be shaped. This means that the people at the Social Insurance Bank will be made known how they should act in this regard. Something's gonna go wrong sometime. You'll have to solve that right away. The agreements we made with each other, including those payment agreements, are translated as we speak within the Social Insurance Bank into instructions for the people.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u198	It's Wednesday now. The Secretary of State said on Monday that anyone can declare whether the health care agreement has been approved or not. Apparently, there are people working at the Social Insurance Bank today who are not aware of this rule. How long, how many working instructions do we have to wait for? We're talking about people who just don't get paid.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u199	We're gonna get that payout for everyone who declares. That is what we have agreed on. If someone says you can't, it's not good. That's what we'll be acting on. The agreements must be translated throughout the organization. I expect that to happen in the very short term. Once again, while we are talking about this, this communication is already taking place within the Social Insurance Bank.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u200	A brief question, Mrs Dijkstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u201	Indeed, a short question, which may save a second-term motion. The Secretary of State has said that the situation will be monitored and that the Chamber will be kept informed. Can this be done monthly and, for example, until September 2015?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u202	I haven't thought about how long that should take and whether it can be with the frequency of a month. As far as I'm concerned, it's okay. We have to do it as long as it takes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u203	This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I see that there is a need for a short suspension before we proceed to the second term of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u204	We have arrived at the second term of the debate on the personal budget. Mrs Keijzer is already standing by.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u205	Mr. Chairman. First of all, thank you for the apology made by the Secretary of State today. In any case, I very much appreciate those words, and I hope that all the budget holders will too. All the questions asked to the Secretary of State about the preparation and implementation of the ICT system at the Social Insurance Bank came up again with soothing and anointing words: it has been carefully thought about, it has been looked at in advance et cetera. However, the CDA wants the information on the basis of which the ICT system was built and finally introduced: the framework of standards, the functionality requirements, the level of ambition; I don't care what the Secretary of State calls it. All his fine words can't hide the fact that it's just wrong there on the spot. I'll file the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there have been many problems with the introduction of the right of draw by the Social Insurance Bank from 1 January 2015;]] [[noting that it takes time to put the system in order so that all contracts are properly implemented and caregivers can be paid out;]] [[calls on the government to ensure that budget holders can pay out their caregivers themselves and use this period to get the "mandatory administration" in order and then to re-introduce it in stages;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Keijzer, Mr Leijten, Mr Krol and Mr Gerbrands. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25657-116]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u206	We will follow very closely the payments made by the SVB. After all, the Secretary of State says here today: everything is going to be fine. That's what ten days are for, and we're on top of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u207	I now give the floor to Mrs Leijten from the SP Group. Second-term speaking time is one minute and twenty seconds.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u208	Mr. Chairman. I co-signed Mrs Keijzer's motion. We are talking here about a solution, a solution for which we must now stand. But we also need to be able to assess whether the person to whom we are asking for the solution has taken the introduction seriously at all. On 27 March we see a red signal, because there is not enough direction. In May, the General Court presented the request for more direction. In July and August the big cities ring the bell and say: more direction. In October there will be a report that says: more direction of VWS is needed. And again in November, the General Court of Auditors. I ask the Secretary of State once again: when did you direct after the warnings? What was discussed in the Trekking Law Steering Committee at the Ministry? Secretary of State, give us the reports, show us what you've done. That shouldn't be so hard, right? We must be able to assess whether there has been a deliberate risk or whether the Secretary of State has made every effort to prevent this debacle. Here's one more thing. It was about "sweeping actions," "picking after" in the payment, hiccups in the system, but I ask the Secretary of State to realize, despite the trickery of numbers, that there are people behind this who have to pay their rent and do their shopping. This requires not only numbers and monitors and all of them, but that simply requires the solution. I'll speak to the Secretary of State in ten days. Then we'll see if it's solved.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u209	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for replying. I think we are left with a lot of questions. The Secretary of State also says: all efforts are directed towards it, but we have to wait and see. That's what we've been talking about. I have not received an answer to one question, namely which instruments have pgb-holders who have not been paid out of debt on time. Those pgb holders are sitting with caregivers who are no longer with them because they are not getting paid. I would like an answer to that. D66 also wants peace in the coming period when it comes to the payout. That is why, together with Mrs Ellemeet, I have prepared a motion which she will be tabling shortly. I have a few more motions of my own.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u210	If you still want to file it, you need to start now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u211	I'll do it very quickly, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are now major problems with the payment of pgbs by the Social Insurance Bank and with the accessibility of the SVB;]] [[Whereas there is still little evidence of the cause of these problems;]] [[calls on the government to provide an independent problem analysis to provide the right solutions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Pia Dijkstra and Mr Ellemeet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25657-117]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u212	I have one more motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that SVB systems can only process accountability and declarations in hours, but not, for example, in hours or travel kilometres;]] [[noting that insufficient attention has been paid to pgb holders and their representatives;]] [[Whereas the questions and needs of people should be guiding, not systems;]] [[invites the Government, together with interest representatives of pgb holders, to consult with the SVB with a view to enabling customisation in the SVB's systems, so that, for example, day-sharing, travel kilometres or expenses can also be declared,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Member Pia Dijkstra. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25657-118]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u213	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his reply and for the apologies he has made. They're very important to the people who it's about. However, that is not yet the case. We need to provide acute solutions to the problems that exist, but we absolutely must also move towards structural solutions. We can't wait too long to do that, so I'm gonna call the Secretary of State in there. I have a motion with which my college Pia Dijkstra and I hope to offer rest to the pgb-holders and the caregivers. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that there are now major problems with the payment of pgbs by the Social Insurance Bank and with the accessibility of the SVB;]] [[Whereas pgb holders and their caregivers are now best served by the clarity of the payment of their pgb;]] [[calls on the Government to issue declarations for the next three months without checking them against the health care agreement,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ellemeet and Mr Pia Dijkstra. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25657-119]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u214	Mr. Chairman. What is rightly at the centre of today is the humanization of the system. I see behind the system we have talked about today people who need care, who want to pay declarations, people who provide care and who depend on that income, people who often have a family and who have to do their shopping with that income. That's why humanizing the system is so important. I notice that we have also discussed in detail the fact that the system now has so few people in it. A pgb must offer customization but you can only declare in hours. The customization of the pgb doesn't really fit at all. Healthcare agreements are sent back for futility and end up on the wrong desk. There really needs to be a lot more customization. That's why I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the pgb is a tailor-made tool that allows people to direct their lives and care;]] [[noting that by system errors thousands of budget holders have not yet received the pgb they are entitled to;]] [[noting that the SVB's ICT system is not sufficiently tailored to the practical way in which it operates;]] [[considers that the proposed emergency measures are not sufficient to resolve the problems in a structural manner;]] [[calls on the Government to put forward proposals for a structural solution to the problems by 13 February and to make the system pgb-proof;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25657-120]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u215	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate the Secretary of State for the generous apology he has made to the people who have felt dishonored and hurt. That's a good thing to say. It was also a hopeful start to the second term. Unfortunately, a number of disappointments followed. That is why I co-signed Mrs Keijzer's motion. Finally, I have one question for the Secretary of State. It would be very nice if he could give us a time limit on which he felt it should be resolved, so that we could take him into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u216	Mr. Chairman. I too would like to thank the Secretary of State for his answers to the questions raised by the Chamber. It is particularly important for the people who are watching at home, and for all those pgb-holders, that they are given certainty, certainty of payout and certainty of where they are going. The Secretary of State has made a number of concrete commitments. We will monitor whether this happens on time, including through the monitor promised by the Secretary of State. I have two motions; the first is about communication. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas measures have been taken in recent days to resolve the problem of payments in the SVB;]] [[noting that the content and consequences of these agreements for budget holders are not clearly visible on the SVB website;]] [[calls on the Government to organise clear and comprehensible communication to budget holders as soon as possible so that budget holders have the right information on the measures taken, their rights and the opportunities to find a suitable solution quickly in urgent situations,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas all efforts should now focus on solving problems related to the payment of pgbs and a robust system in the future;]] [[Considering the need to move towards a well-functioning system for solid pgbs, in which people have more control over their own care and in which continuity of care, support and payout of care providers are ensured;]] [[calls on the Government to carry out an implementation test as soon as possible to determine how the implementation of a sound pgb can be structurally ensured, including adequate complaint handling and clear communication to budget holders, and to inform the Court of Auditors as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Otwin van Dijk and Mr Van 't Wout. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25657-121]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Otwin van Dijk and Mr Van 't Wout. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25657-122]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u217	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the comprehensive first-term response. I welcome a number of commitments, such as the commitment that tailor-made solutions are also available to healthcare providers. I ask him to make sure that this is also known. We have now exchanged it here, but it would be good if it were also announced on the SVB website, for example. I am also entitled to table a motion on behalf of Mr Van Dijk. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, in the coming months, work will be carried out on the proper processing of all health care contracts, including those which have now been automatically approved, and on the control of payments made;]] [[Whereas this is also a significant operation with possible (financial) consequences for budget holders;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that Per Balance is closely involved in this process in order to ensure that this process is completed as smoothly as possible, and to inform the Chamber as soon as possible of the implementation of this motion,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by members Van 't Wout and Otwin van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25657-123]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u218	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the Secretary of State for his generous apologies. He has given many answers, for which he has also thanked, but 50PLUS is still not confident that everything will go well from now on. There are too many problems. What lessons can be learned from this? One of the most pressing issues is the financial position of unpaid care providers. That is why, in addition to the motion by GroenLinks and D66, I have tabled the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas many carers have become or are likely to be in financial difficulties as a result of the problems of paying out the pgb;]] [[Whereas this is entirely out of their fault;]] [[calls on the Government to take stock of how the financial obligations of the caregivers affected can be applied and to inform the Court within two weeks,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25657-124]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u219	Mr. Chairman. I've been asked a few more questions. Mrs Keijzer asks what exactly is going on with these job demands. A number of motions have been tabled relating to execution keys and pgb-proofing of the system. In this context, we are once again discussing the question of what the system must meet, given its friendliness and its technical feasibility. I have the feeling that this might come back very well in that discussion. The aim is not to look back, but to see what function requirements you have to apply in order to come up with good solutions in the future. I'd like to approach it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u220	I can't be satisfied with that. The CDA Group is here today to find solutions for budget holders, but also to look back. I would very much like to get the job requirements that the Secretary of State now refers to, I have said: functionalities, standards framework, I don't care what the current ICT system is based on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u221	I sent the reports on that to the Chamber. Deloitte has looked at what is or is not in it. I also sent the gateway report, as did the EDP audit. I have presented as comprehensive a picture as possible of the job requirements and the framework of standards that apply to them. That's what I can deliver.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u222	This is quite fundamental. This isn't what the Secretary of State can deliver, it's what he wants to deliver. Today, on the radio, a representative of the Social Insurance Bank was asked: was the system ready in December? There was no answer to that. He repeated three times: we were well prepared. So there's something here, and I just want it. If I don't get it, it's gonna have to be wobbled by a reporter again, but it's actually an embarrassing display, because there's a public representative here asking the government for information.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u223	Mrs Keijzer asked a question about all these EDP audits. She got all those. Based on the answer "we are well prepared" to the question "were you ready?" Mrs. Keijzer now says: see, there's something. She's been able to see all those reports, hasn't she? We can continue to discuss whether the functional requirements should have been different and whether they should have gone even further in the direction of budget holders, but we are going to discuss this with each other, and I do not see any reason to look at the framework of standards in another way. There are no such standards. You develop it with each other to create a system. I think we have discussed this sufficiently.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u224	Not only has a standard framework been requested, but the SP Group has also asked twice for the reports of the drawing committee. I think we should just get it. It's a little crazy to say that that's information we already have, because we don't have it. We did not get it in the debate, which is important. There was a time when it was decided that nothing else would be added to the system "No more of municipalities or budget holders' because things had to go as they were. Those are all facts that the Secretary of State can send to the Chamber, aren't they?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u225	The Chamber needs to talk to me about the decisions I make. I will answer to the Chamber for that. I'll tell you what I think, then the Chamber will be able to say what it thinks. Surely we should not get into the situation where reports that have been issued without people knowing that they will be sent to anyone later, go to the Chamber? That would be a strange situation, wouldn't it? I'm here to answer for the timeline. I've been accountable for the way I'm doing that. I told you what kind of consultation I'm in. I'm trying to answer to the Chamber for that in my own way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u226	Finally, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u227	It has been said several times five times publicly and twice directly to the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs that there should be more direction by the Ministry of the Interior of the United States of America in order to properly implement this system of drawing rights for the personalised budget. My question has been: what warnings did the Secretary of State hear? Who did they come from? How did he act on that? He can just send that to us, right? I can imagine that is just available. If the Secretary of State says he's always been a good director, then he can send it all the way. Well, we'll be able to check it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u228	I have indicated all the signals, such as the letter from the UNG which led to further agreements on the exchange of information. The General Court made a comment about direction by a project group to bring all parties together. The General Court has also noted that the costs must be well accounted for in the budget. Then there is the report that we have discussed. In my view, I have indicated as much as possible how we have responded to the recommendations. We can't agree on that, but that's how we operated. Mrs Dijkstra asked a question about the pgb-holders. I've been trying to realize instruments I'm going to say it a little wrong now for them. Even if care agreements have not been approved, they can still declare. We have ensured that we have been able to pay the fixed monthly wages as a matter of priority. Those are not instruments, but we have tried to do so with the pgb holders in mind, so that they can now submit those declarations. Mrs Gerbrands asked about the deadlines for resolving cases. The answer is a little differentiated. We have made agreements: if declarations are now made, the Social Insurance Bank assumes that they can be paid within five and sometimes within ten days. If a declaration comes in, that deadline will run. We can track that with each other on the monitor. How do you work on these structural solutions and how do you take into account the wishes of pgb holders? As far as I am concerned, that is a continuous process. I hope that before the summer we have been able to make a number of improvements to the system. In the monitor we will be able to follow this very quickly: what about the production, what about the handling of declarations, has the working stock been eliminated? You have seen the deadlines.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u229	I think "I hope for the summer" is a little skinny. I would like to hear that it is structurally resolved before the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u230	There will always be improvements in the development of the system. This debate has shown that a number of things are quite alive. A number of comments have been made on transport and declaration. This will lead to a number of adjustments in the system. We should not do that tomorrow; let us pay attention now. It will lead to adjustments that may have been made before the summer. Further improvements that require more adjustments will take place later. This is a continuous process, of which I want the first improvements in the system before the summer, but not right now. Everything is now focused on paying, making improvements and doing so permanently through the client's eyes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u231	I think it's kind of annoying. Mrs Keijzer and Mrs Leijten ask for information on the basis of which decisions have been taken. It is said that we have had a debate on this, that must be sufficient, and that is all you will get. Then I ask and others ask me what we can do to deal with the Secretary of State, because that is what we do here as a Chamber: to deal with the cabinet on what it promises. Then you get the answer: I hope for the summer and it's a continuous process. So that can also be 2018. I would like a commitment from the Secretary of State that everything at the Social Insurance Bank regarding the pgbs for the summer has been resolved. It is fine if there is still a tiny exception to be achieved in the summer, but the vast majority of it needs to be structurally regulated before the summer. I think that commitment should be possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u232	I agree, but I think a number of things need to be realized sooner. That's why I said the answer is differentiated. With regard to the timely payment of declarations, we agreed that this should be possible within five to ten days. I also said that the working stock must be able to be disposed of very quickly, so to speak in February. Structural improvements in the system will take place before the summer. If you ask me if I hope I'm out of these problems before the summer, the answer is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u233	Good. I think you've come to the motions now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u234	I want the motion in part no. 116 dissuade. If we now move back to a system in which carers can pay themselves, we will make the administration even more complicated, apart from the fact that the Social Insurance Bank must have the giro numbers of all budget holders and not of the aid workers. This complicates the process and does not result in faster payments. That's why I'd like to dissuade the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u235	Mrs Keijzer, I will give you the floor in a moment. The point is that you are really asking a question about the motion that has been tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u236	That's what I'm gonna do, Mr. Chairman. Will the Secretary of State undertake that the declarations and monthly wages submitted have been paid by 11 February at 12 noon at the latest? He just said between five and ten days. That will be 12 noon on 11 February at the latest.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u237	Just for the record, from 1 February these declarations will be submitted on a permanent basis. Declarations will be made in February and declarations will be made in March. Those declarations shall be submitted per month. The agreement is now that I have written in the letter, which is submitted as a declaration, which has been dealt with and paid within five to ten days. It happens. The second is that there is a working stock and that we have also agreed to do so within that ten-day period. Those are the agreements we made with each other. Each time a declaration is made, it must be paid within five to ten days. Every time. Not only in February, but also in March, in April, in May, and so on. There just needs to be paid quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u238	No, ladies. You didn't file a motion. We have just agreed that the petitioner may ask a question about the motion tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u239	Yeah, but my name's under it, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u240	Mine, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u241	Yeah, but there could be a whole fraction of it underneath. Then it is indeed 10 or 15 people. This is really the deal we made with each other. I want to admit it once, but then we're really gonna stick to the rules. Otherwise we will repeat the debate. You have the floor, Mrs Gerbrands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u242	I have a very simple question. The Secretary of State says that the working stock is resolved within ten days. Then I would also like to see current figures on what is now left behind in stock. They'll have to go to the Chamber today or tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u243	Agreed. You got those numbers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u244	No, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u245	First, the Secretary of State, Mrs. Gerbrands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u246	In that state it can be seen that on the one hand it is about the 12,000 that would still come from the municipalities that have been processed in the meantime and on the other hand it is about the 20,000 that there is still a contact about. Those 45,000 are the working stock, which will be eliminated in a period of ten days. That's what the letter says.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u247	Mrs Leijten, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u248	The trick with numbers really makes it very complicated. The Secretary of State said Monday night that everything will be resolved in five to ten days. Anyone who had not yet been paid would have been paid and certainly of those 170,000 healthcare contracts that have been in and approved by now. Maybe it's an idea, I'll just tell the co-subsidiaries, that we're holding this motion and that we'll get an overview of the Secretary of State on 12 February. We can then decide on 12 February whether to put this motion to the vote. Perhaps a new debate will be needed. If we get that later, it'll take another week because we have carnival recesses. I'd like to hear from the Secretary of State if he can give an overview at ten o'clock on Thursday morning. It is kept daily and it also appears on the site, the SVB has already said. So it shouldn't be any trouble to send that to us in a note. My proposal is that we hold this motion until the vote on 12 February.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u249	Mrs Keijzer is the first signatory of this motion, so it is up to her to make the proposal to hold the motion or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u250	I think it's a top-notch proposal, Mr. Chairman. I hope the Secretary of State can say yes to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u251	No, I don't think so. We have already discussed this in the debate. On the one hand, we all have care contracts, which partly relate to fixed monthly wages. Those payments are made. Payment must then be made on a declaration basis. That process is constantly taking place. The agreement is that if a declaration is made, care contract or not, will be paid within five to ten days. If a declaration is submitted by a budget holder on 27 February, it will be paid within five days. If it is submitted on 3 March, it shall be paid no later than 8 March. We also talked about the work stock. We've agreed it'll be cleared up in ten days.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u252	Don't yell at me from the benches, because nobody understands that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u253	Then I come to motion on part number one. 117. I would ask the authors to consider whether we could make some kind of combination with the motion in part No. 122.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u254	I'll take a look. It's about the motion in part No. 117 in conjunction with the motion in part No. 122.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u255	I'm just trying to give you an interpretation. Motion in part No. 117 asks: can we come up with an independent problem analysis in which the right solutions can be put forward? The motion in part No. 122 asks: do we want an implementation test to be carried out to determine how the implementation of a solid pgb can be ensured in a structural manner? He's asking for two things. On the one hand that is: make that problem analysis, so that material is provided for the future. On the other hand, the motion asks for item No. 122: What proposals do we have for a solid pgb, the handling of complaints and a clear communication in the future? When I look at them in conjunction, there are proposals in which we look back at what we learn from the problems and we look forward to ensuring that there is a solid pgb that can be structurally guaranteed with complaint handling and communication. If I may interpret them in this way, then I would like to make the judgement on the motions in part Nos. 117 and 122 leave to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u256	I was just about to say that either they remain separate motions or we put them together, but it's fine. We'll take a look at it. For now, they're just as well as they are.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u257	In the motion-Pia Dijkstra in part No. 118 we are asked to consult with stakeholders of pgb-holders with a view to enabling customization in the systems. In view of the debate I have had, I consider it to be a policy support. I'll leave that judgment to the Chamber. In the Ellemeet/Pia Dijkstra motion in part No. 119 we are invited to issue declarations in the next three months without checking them against the health care agreement. Let me give you another interpretation. I take it that the request is that, for the next three months, declarations that have been properly submitted should be made in the absence of a health care agreement. I take it Mrs Ellemeet doesn't say "just go pay them" when there is a healthcare agreement. If there is, you can just pay on that basis, but if there isn't, there's just got to be paid. If I may interpret the motion in this way, in a modified form, then I would like to leave it to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u258	Yeah, that's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u259	So you're leaving the verdict to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u260	I shall leave the judgment to the Chamber in a modified form. In her motion in part No. 120 asks Mrs Dik-Faber to come up with proposals to solve the problems structurally and to make the system pgb-proof. We agree on that, but she says that I must come forward with proposals before 13 February. In view of all the efforts made to ensure that these payments are made, I would like to say that remove the date of 13 February. I very much agree with the aim, namely to propose solutions to the problems and to make the system a structural pgb-proof. I would like to point out the motions I have made in respect of item Nos. 117 and 122. If Mrs Dik-Faber were to take that date away to give some space, then we would have a set of motions that we can work with.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u261	Can the Secretary of State give an indication of what a realistic deadline is?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u262	I want the first improvements made before the summer, so I have to come up with proposals sooner. I can do that on the basis of the motions on part Nos. 117 and 122. It's just a question of when we're gonna... I'll take a look at the consciences.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u263	Everyone's watching. Well, you have until Tuesday to think about it, Mrs. Dik-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u264	I'm just gonna go over it and see if and how the motion needs to be modified.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u265	I'm sure it'll work. In the motion-Otwin van Dijk/Van 't Wout in part No. 121 we are asked to organise clear communication to budget holders as soon as possible about their rights and possibilities. It was already about Q&A's and frequently asked questions. In the light of the debate, I believe that this is a policy support and I leave the vote on the motion to the Chamber. On the motion in part No. 122 I've already had it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u266	I have a question about the Otwin van Dijk/Van 't Wout motion in part No. 121. It states that the government is invited to organise unambiguous and comprehensible communication as soon as possible. And it says: the rights and opportunities to quickly find an appropriate solution in emergency situations. He's Court of Justice, so he's gonna execute the Secretary of State. Is the phone number of the rapid response team available on the Sociale Verzekeringsbank website?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u267	Yes, as long as you are not automatically forwarded when you raise that problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u268	That's more of a no, because then you just get the SVB phone number.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u269	Then I come to the motion on part No. 122.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u270	No, the motion in part No. 123.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u271	Sorry, the motion to part No. 122 I've already indicated. In the motion in part No. 123 We are asked to ensure that Per Balance is closely involved in the smoothest possible further processing of the route. I should like to leave this motion to the House because I have already responded positively to it in the debate. Finally, the motion in part No. 124. First of all, I pointed out in the debate that on the one hand we already have a declaration coulance; even if the care contract is not there, it can be declared. This is supported by Mrs Ellemeet and Mrs Dijkstra's motion. Secondly, there is a tailor-made solution in which people end up when this happens. For that reason, I consider the motion superfluous and I advise her against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u272	That brings us to the end of this debate. We will vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday. I would like to thank the Secretary of State, his official support and, above all, the people who have followed this debate. Apologies for the fact that the sound fell away from time to time.
