ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u1	Thank you all for your patience. I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment. I thank her for the patience she has shown, because she was here an hour ago. Of course, I would also like to welcome all those present in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u2	Mr. Chairman. Several studies show that people in the Netherlands are not sufficiently aware of their pension scheme or their income position after retirement. Over 70% of people are unwittingly retired. Six out of ten people have sometimes thought about the pension, but four out of ten people do not know what scheme they are building up. Only 34% of people study the information they receive from a pension fund or an insurer. These are some figures from the Pension Monitor 2014, which was published on Wijzer's website in money matters. It's important that people are aware of their pension. After all, it's about your income from later. As soon as you find this insufficient and wish to correct it, you will have to start doing so in good time. The figures just mentioned show that there is still room for improvement in the field of pension communication. The amendment to the Pension Act, which is now before us to improve pension communication, is a good step forward. I would like to comment on a number of aspects. First of all, I would like to refer to the general information on the pension. On the internet I can find various websites with information about the pension. Wizard in money matters, the Pension Disc-of-five, mijnpensioenoverzicht.nl, Checklist Pensioen, pensionvijker.nl.; all of them provide information with a link to the government. People don't see the forest through the trees anymore. The information on these sites is also not up to date. General information on how our pension system is built up, an explanation about the different pillars and about the pension in relation to different situations, such as job change, illness or a changing family situation, is missing or very limited. Take Pensionbliker.nl. When I go to the website, I read: "Pension viewer is being renewed. We are currently busy renewing the website. What you see now is not the final setup of Pensionvijker.nl. We apologize for the inconvenience." Next, it says: "In 2014 and in 2015, many changes were made to pension schemes. Therefore, check your data regularly on mypensionoverzicht.nl and with your pension executor[s]." As a participant, I am looking for general information on pensions and the changes that have been made in the past year. I click on mypensionoverzicht.nl, but there I can only log in with a DigiD to see my own pension structure. Here too, the general information is missing. A lot has happened in the past year in the field of pensions. More than ever, the pension is in the spotlight. As a number of important changes have been made, the most obvious sources of information should be available. I ask the Secretary of State if she has an overview of the various websites and instruments offered by the owner, co-owner, client or co-customer, i.e. by the Empire or related organisations. How does the Secretary of State view this information? Does it believe that this information is complete and, more importantly, up-to-date? The VVD Group would like mypensionoverzicht.nl to be a leading website for anyone who wants to know about pensions. At the same time, this is the portal where the overview can be found for anyone who builds or has built up a pension. This means that this site shows the AOW in the first pillar, the pension in the second pillar but also the products you save in the third pillar. This site should also be accessible in the short term to people who are already retired. In addition, Pension 1-2-3 and the Uniform Pension Statement are linked to mypensionoverzicht.nl, if it is up to the VVD. Can the Secretary of State comment on the further optimisation of this website? Can it confirm that mypensionoverzicht.nl is limited to the pension domain and does not give brackets to other instruments, perhaps still to be developed, such as financial planning? General knowledge is necessary to understand the information you receive from the pension fund or the insurer. There are good examples that can serve as a source of inspiration. Take, for example, a working pension.nl. This is an initiative three young people, two of whom are employed in the pension sector and one is a website builder. They have seen the complexity of pensions increase in practice in recent years and have created an independent website. In ten minutes you will be guided through the pension system in a very accessible way, all pension terms will be explained and you can calculate how much pension you are building up. It is worth it, I would say to the Secretary of State, to visit this website. My group welcomes the steps taken in this proposal in relation to compulsory communication by pension funds and insurers. The addition of the different scenarios in mypensionoverzicht.nl is a progress. This can help people to understand more about whether supplementary pension is desirable. Nor can we accept the non-legislative nature of the way in which communication is to be communicated. A pension fund will communicate differently with general practitioners, people working in industry, agriculture or any industry. It's about customization, and we like it. The long and often complicated start letter for new, existing and potential participants is replaced by Pension 1-2-3. This is a joint initiative between pension funds and insurers, with a choice of layered communication: from a brief explanation of the pension scheme in low 1 to communication in detail in low 3. That is a considerable improvement; something for everyone. It can make an important contribution to getting more people to read this information, but above all to make them understand it. Another focus is the lack of basic information on the Dutch pension system. This is important information especially for new participants, such as people who start their first jobs. Through you, President, and the Secretary of State, I would like to challenge the pension sector to look at that again. People must be tempted to read the information. Understanding information is crucial to opening the mail as well. Pension 1-2-3 is anchored in the law. When did this way of communicating for the Secretary of State succeed? 34% of people now study the information they receive from the pension fund or from an insurer. What percentage should this be, according to the State Secretary, for example in 2016 if the pension monitor appears again? Is the pension monitor used to monitor this development? Are there any amendments proposed if necessary? The bill also provides for pension funds and insurers to make all the schemes public. That is a step too far for my group. It is important that an employer, in consultation with the pension fund or the insurer, provides the right information to a future participant. Pension 1-2-3 can play a good role in this. If all pension funds and insurers have to make the schemes public, this will lead to a huge cost. The costs shall be borne by the final pension. My group would like to waive the obligation to make all the regulations publicly available. Pension funds and insurers are, of course, free to disclose voluntary schemes. I have tabled an amendment on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u3	Mr Omtzigt has a question on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u4	I have read the amendment; that is clear. The problems often arise when a person has left his employment with an employer some time ago and can no longer find the pension statement and regulations. The whole idea of making the regulations public is that, if someone has old pension claims, someone can say: ten years ago, I was covered by that regulation. How does this amendment guarantee that, if you were employed by a former employer ten years ago, you will be able to get the rules back in a very easy way, so that you can determine your rights on the basis of an old policy or an old pension claim to a pension fund?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u5	For the sake of clarity, this is the amendment on item No. 9 or that in part No 9 or that in part No 9 or that in part No 9 or that in part No 9 or that in part No 9 or that in part No 9 or that in part No 9 or that in part No 9 or that in part No 9 or that in part No 9 Mrs Lodders has tabled several amendments, and for the Acts it is useful to mention the correct number.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u6	It is a question of the amendment to item No. 11. The legislative amendment concerns future arrangements, so the problem of the past is not solved with this legislative amendment. That is why I want to link, among other things, Pension 1-2-3, so also the old starter letter, to mypensionoverzicht.nl, so that there is a collective domain for the schemes to which you have contributed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u7	If I understand correctly, Mrs Lodder's intention is that one way or another you can get your old pension statement back and that there will be a regulation attached to it. Suppose I take part in a scheme this year, change jobs next year and do not transfer value. The money stays. Do I have a guarantee that I can easily find the rules that are underneath, so that I do not have to do some kind of abacadabra to find out my rights?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u8	Your question is clear to me, but it is not guaranteed at the moment. Then you'd have to go back to your employer and see the rules in that. As soon as I participate as an employer in a scheme, I get a starter's letter. It's now being replaced by Pension 1-2-3. There is a scheme under which I want to see it linked, in the future, to mypensionoverzicht.nl. That must be the portal where I can find all my information, including from the past. I do not need to tell Mr Omtzigt how terrible a lot of work would now be to make all the schemes available to the various pension funds and insurers. That's a hell of a job. In order to find the right arrangement, an even more difficult case would become.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u9	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u10	The Uniform Pension Statement, also known as the UPO, may be sent digitally after this change. This too is a good development. Digital communication is cheaper. That is for a pension fund or insurer and savings; money that does not have to be taken away from the pension pots. On this point, together with Mr Vermeij, I have tabled an amendment to allow the change of digital communication to post or vice versa to take place only once a year. Unlimited change would be at the expense of the savings it ultimately brings. Under the new communication rules, pension administrators are obliged to provide correct, clear and balanced information to participants. However, part of the information provided depends on third parties such as employers, SVB or UWV. Can the Secretary of State indicate the consequences for pension administrators if the information is not provided to the participants in good time or improperly by third parties? The Kassa programme has recently paid attention to the insured schemes. Insurers communicate via the UPO and mypensionoverzicht.nl an expected pension benefit. The broadcast showed that the expected pension payment at the UPO was significantly higher than the pension purchased several months later. The explanatory notes of the relevant insurer show that insurers communicate with a pre-established statutory fixed interest rate of 4. In the example shown in the broadcast, the UPO showed an amount of €21,000 and a few months later, when the participant had purchased his pension, the value was still €17,500, a difference of €3,500 per year. That's a hell of a lot of money. My question to the Secretary of State is as follows. Is this method of calculation still in question? If so, how are the participants being alerted to the risks of low interest rates? I've raised that low interest rate before. The Secretary of State is working on a bill to optimize the premium agreements. I assume that is at the same time a question to the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs that the bill which the Secretary of State promised to the House of Representatives before the summer is well taken into account in the communication on the choice of new possibilities. I would like to put another question on behalf of Mr Klaver van GroenLinks. He cannot attend today's debate. A motion was adopted in this Chamber with broad support to include the real coverage rate in the annual report. That's what's worked out in this law. We are getting signals that the definition of the real level of cover is based not only on future returns but also on future yields. My question is: is that correct and can the Secretary of State indicate why this was chosen? I'm rounding up. I started my input with a number of figures on people's knowledge of their pension and on the scheme in which they participate. No high scores, but the proposed changes take a number of important steps. Is the Secretary of State prepared to inform the Chamber of the effects of this amendment within three years of the adoption of the law? At that time, the VVD would also like to look forward to the development of the administrative burden promised in the written consultation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u11	Mr. Chairman. We are talking today about improving pension communication. This is urgently needed, because many participants do not have sufficient vision of their pension: how much are they building up, what is the expected pension and do they need to take action to take additional measures for disability or survivors' pensions? Mrs Lodders has just mentioned a number of figures in her contribution. I won't repeat it, but there's still a world to be won when it comes to pension awareness. However, this also applies to the communication of pension funds and pension insurers. In the past, the risks associated with pensions have not always been pointed out in the same way, which now leads to unpleasant surprises for a lot of people, since their pension is not as sure about recent discounts as they had been derived from all communications. This week, too, with regard to the ABP scheme and the partner bonus, we saw that there is still something to be gained in terms of communication at certain times. That is why I welcome this bill, which I think is a step in the right direction. After all, we are finally going to introduce into the law that pension funds should communicate in a timely, clear, correct and balanced manner. This has been a requirement for financial institutions for a long time, but pension funds have not yet been subject to this requirement of balanced and correct communication. My group has been calling for this for a number of years. I am glad that this has now been included in this bill. I do have a question for the Secretary of State, because these concepts have been included as 'open standards'. For the history of law, too, I would be pleased if the Secretary of State could explain a little further in the reply what she understands by those standards. For example, in an official publication to a participant, can a pension fund celebrate only the yields obtained due to low interest rates, without at the same time indicating that such low interest rates put the level of cover under pressure? Would that be balanced? Do I understand correctly that even the AFM, the regulator in this area, will not deal with an individual complaint in the future. You should be with your fund and with the regulations applicable to complaint treatment there, but that you can report there if you find that there is a imbalance in the generic communication of the fund? This bill concerns the provision of information to participants. It turned out, for example, that many people do not read their pension statement at all. I think the so-called UPO is one of the most unopened mail items that many people receive. That's not a good thing. It is therefore good to increase awareness of this. However, I would like to make the point that, of course, people will only feel more involved in their pensions if we give them more choice. After all, it only makes sense to inform you if you can act afterwards and if you have choices. Of course, people who have choices now to a certain extent think about the retirement date, but I think that in a new pension system, increasing choices will contribute to much more pension awareness. Why, after all, should you look at things with which you can sometimes hardly take action in the current system? However, that is something for the next debate on the future of the system. In any case, we are going to take steps forward with the current pension rules in this legislative proposal. Pension 1-2-3 replaces the complicated starting letter, the Uniform Pension Statement becomes clearer, actually only looks back and becomes a kind of annual overview and we extend the scope of the pension register. These are nice steps, but as far as my group is concerned, these are really intermediate steps. Does the Secretary of State agree with me? Finally, as far as my group is concerned, we must move towards a new, comprehensive and improved pension register where all your pension claims and the AOW come together and where you can really see how much pension you get, what happens when you die, what happens to the next of kin and what happens in the event of incapacity for work. With three channels of communication, it is still relatively complicated. With regard to that pension register, I do have a number of questions about the steps the cabinet is taking. In the run-up to this debate, I have once again consulted my own pension register. If you do that, you'll come across a number of things that raise questions. I know, for example, that the age at which I will be entitled to AOW will no longer be 67. According to the Social Insurance Bank's website, the age at which I get AOW will be 69.5. When I log in to the pension register I get to see two variants, namely when you stop working when you're 65 and when you stop working when you're 67. The variant to stop when I am 69,5, the variant that, according to the current insights, is most likely, I don't find there. I am therefore considering tabling a motion in the second term to see whether this can be made clear. I thought that pension register was meant to be able to plan. How can I plan and act if there is no information on what happens when I retire at an age that is most likely for me? I think that's a bitch. I think it is also a bottleneck that the most recent information I found was information that was introduced on 31 December 2013. It's been a while. I just happened to need to know about my survivor's pension recently. I find it complicated that that information is so old. Can't it be kept a little more up-to-date? Can the Secretary of State outline how this bill contributes to this in her view? I thought, "Now I know what my next of kin gets in case I die." However, when I had worked out the data, I discovered a small sentence in the general conditions of the pension register. It was stated that no rights can be derived from the amounts shown here. Yeah, I understand you might need to be at the UPO for that. However, if you want that pension register to become the central place where you can find things, it is complicated that you cannot derive rights from it. So this raises questions, especially for the future. 'Cause, yeah, what good is a register like that? I had to submit data to a bank, but I couldn't derive any rights from those data. I'd like to hear a response from the Secretary of State. What can happen at this point, also focused on the future? As far as I am concerned, in the future, this pension register must become the core of pension communication, even more so than it already is in the present legislative proposal. In that pension register I can see how high the AOW is that I can expect. It is also a second-pillar pension, i.e. a pension that you receive from a pension fund or a pension insurance company. I can find all that in the pension register. However, people who, for example, have an annuity cannot see that in the pension register. In this respect, too, I think we should take steps. This has also been pointed out by many organisations. In the end, you want to see a total picture of your income at retirement. Does the Secretary of State share that perspective? Finally, I come to governance, so the organisation of that pension register. The Authority for the Financial Markets has suggested making it a public service because it has become almost a general service. I am not arguing for this now because I am not yet ready, but I do see an increasing public interest in the register. In my view, this can also mean something for governance in the future. How does the Secretary of State view this issue? I also think it would be wise for people to have a better understanding of the cost of their pensions. In practice, many Dutch still work one day a week for their pension and four days for their gross wage. Pension is an extremely expensive product. It is also a very nice product, because it also ensures that you have a good standard of living when you have stopped working. Should we not, however, show in one place how much money is actually paid into that pension per year by the employee, but also by the employer? In practice, the latter accounts for about two thirds of the costs, as part of the working conditions. I now find that information fragmented and not very insightful. As far as I am concerned, we really need to take steps forward in this area. I'd like to hear a response from the Secretary of State. I also did not quite understand why she reacted somewhat reluctantly in the note on the report. We've moved on for a while now. Maybe now we can expect a little more goodwill in her answer. It is, of course, also very important that people have an insight into the implementation costs of their pension fund. Implementing costs have a very big impact on the pension you end up getting. These costs are incredibly high, especially if funds are too expensive. That is why my group tabled a motion in this area, together with Mr Omtzigt and Mr Krol. This has also been pointed out by the Financial Markets Authority. At the moment, all kinds of surveys are being carried out on customisation calculations in order to ensure that implementation costs and pension results are properly linked. Can the Secretary of State tell us how it is now? I get the feeling that there is a need for more pace and a possibility of this, so that people will get a real insight into the costs of their pension fund and will be able to compare these costs with those of another fund. There will be pressure to reduce costs. This bill also aims to reduce the regulatory burden. That seems important to me, because the more rules the more administrative burdens and they lead to more implementation costs and therefore to a lower pension. That is an eternal tension field, because we also want to have a lot of information available. Mrs Lodders has tabled an amendment to see whether there is still some profit to be gained in certain schemes. I think that is an interesting amendment and I am curious about the reaction of the Secretary of State. I am also curious about her response to Mr Omtzigt's question. I think this bill is a step in the right direction. I am glad that we are finally going to demand that pension funds provide balanced and correct information. I still think it's pretty insufferable that we can't settle that until now. I welcome the fact that we are also improving the provision of information to participants, making it more digital, making it easier, but that is, as far as I am concerned, really part of one side of the step where the pension register becomes even more the tool than in this bill to do your own planning towards your pension, and on the other hand, the step towards a system that gives people much more influence on their pension and offers far more choices. After all, I am convinced that this is ultimately the best way to increase people's pension awareness.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u12	Mr. Chairman. Similar to Mr Van Weyenberg's speech, the PVV also needs more insight into both the cost and the build-up of the pension. The same applies to the part paid by the employer. I think very few Dutch people realize how much the pension actually costs. It would be good to gain more insight into that. So also from my party support for that thought. Imagine if you were dependent on a pension. We are not yet, and I see many young people in the public gallery who are not yet retired. But imagine you are. You've worked a long time and you want to enjoy a carefree old age, where you rely on stable income. For example, you've been a police officer and you have an ABP pension with partner bonus. 20,000 people were told on 6 February that they wouldn't get it anymore. That's a total surprise. We have to get rid of surprises like that, because this doesn't look like shit. It is a very topical example of how not to do so. The AOW partner bonus remains in place for people born before 1950, but not the ABP supplement. That's inexplicable. Today we are talking about communication, but how did this happen? Will this law never happen again? This law should prevent that from happening. Has the AFM been sleeping as a supervisor? The AFM already supervises pension funds and communication. Why didn't the AFM intervene here? If this law does, what if they don't? What kind of sanction is there in the law? The PVV sees the law we are discussing today as an improvement, but of course we do wonder if it is good enough. I have also heard from other groups that it is a step in the right direction, but that we are not yet there. Trust in our pensions has fallen dramatically as a result of government policy. That's another point of communication. Then it's about reliability. Can I rely on what my expectations are? There has never been so much pension capital in the Netherlands, but at the same time there has never been so much reduction. It's hard to explain. With the support of the donated coalition, the cabinet felt that it should raise the age of AOW in the very short term. That happened so quickly that a lot of people feel mugged and have no time to prepare for that loss of pension income. Then you can communicate until you weigh one o'clock, but if you change the rules in such a short period of time, it doesn't make any sense at all, because then you're working on it. We've also seen that in order to undermine trust in pensions. That is totally irresponsible and unreliable. The open end of the AOW age is also a problem. As Mr Van Weyenberg said, he is actually taking 69.5 into account. That scares me anyway. I hope that Mr Van Weyenberg will be able to reach that age, but it is almost 70! How crazy should it be in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u13	I cannot but reassure Mr Madlener. It didn't scare me. I also hope to reach age, but I saw it mainly as a sign of my youthfulness that it is still so far in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u14	Of course, I'm willing to give everyone a long life, but 69.5? The problem of the open end that Mr Van Weyenberg's party actually built in is that we no longer know where we stand. We know it's rising, but how much? I don't know. Mr Van Weyenberg hopes or thinks: 69.5. But what happens in practice? Besides, it's an average. If I become a builder tomorrow, or I get sick, my life expectancy goes down. But no, the retirement age is going up. My party finds that totally undesirable. It doesn't offer certainty. It doesn't offer uncertainty. Then good communication by definition has actually become meaningless.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u15	I would like us all to see life expectancy continue to rise. I have just one suggestion for Mr Madlener: www.svb.nl. Even Mr Madlener with his birth year can see what the expected retirement age is.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u16	That's not entirely true. You used to know 65 is 65. I know to this day exactly when I hope to be 65. There is no doubt about that. Now I have to say, maybe the average is going up. Not my average, of course. Maybe I'll get sick. Today I also have a very cold, so yes... I can hear the chairman cough today as well. She's gonna think, "Do I still get my pension?" The bottom line is that, Mr Van Weyenberg, you know that this has also led to a built-in uncertainty. After all, they are expectations and not fixed dates. Despite the fact that this law may improve communication, I really think it is a loss, and I want to say that here. The intentions of D66 to communicate better are good, but the policy only makes it uncertain for people and thus undermines your own intentions. We think that is irresponsible study room policy. It makes so much sense, life expectancy. But in practice it leads to uncertainty and undesirable side effects. I told you, a construction worker who gets sick and thus sees his life expectancy fall, sees the age of AOW only rise. This law is therefore a cloth for bleeding. Finally, I have two more questions. I have tabled an amendment which lays down a legal framework for the Netherlands Bank to publish a standard overview of the financial situation of pension funds. Of course, I would like to receive a response from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u17	It concerns the amendment in respect of item No. 15.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u18	Yes. I also have a question about the intention to include the annuity in the pension register in order to make it truly complete. That is, of course, a sympathetic intention. However, I do have questions about feasibility and costs. Other groups have them, too. Here too, I await the answer of the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u19	Mr. Chairman. I also almost felt sorry for Mr Van Weyenberg, who no longer knows where he is when it comes to his retirement age. You may think it's 69.5 now, but it can also be later, at least not sooner. It has to be said that he was in favour of it being like this. To squeak a little here six months later... it's pathetic.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u20	Mr Ulenbelt really needs to be a little more cheerful in life. He didn't hear me squeal at all. I only said: if that is the expectation, make sure that it is in the documents. That seems to me to be a form of good and clear communication. Unlike Mr Ulenbelt, I am delighted that we are all getting older.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u21	The uncertainty caused by D66 is demonstrated by the fact that the pension register is not even able to handle it. That's the sad part about the story. Mr Van Weyenberg, you should not blame the pension register; you should consult yourself. In fact, the Pension Communication Act lacks a very important chapter, namely the way in which the government communicates about pensions. I was there when Minister Donner gave his press conference at the recess on August 17, 2010. He said that pension funds will have to cut short. There was a shock of panic going through the country. Minister Donner refused to mention which pension funds they were. When that later became known, there were still much less than he had suggested. In the Chamber it was said: Minister, you did not communicate this properly. There was a lot of criticism in the House of Representatives and the conclusion was: once but never again. Another problem was the AOW savings fund. At some point, P.O. Box 51 mentioned: don't worry if life expectancy goes up, because by 2020 there will be 135 billion in the AOW savings fund. This turned out to be a straight-up lie. At that time, in 2011, I asked Minister Kamp if he wanted to apologize, but he didn't want to do that. This is the second example of the great miscommunication of the government. In the meantime, 75% of young people think that there is no money left when they are on their way to retirement. I didn't see the Secretary of State move to refute that. I had to talk the blisters on my tongue to convince my son that that pot wouldn't be empty by then. I could've used a little help from the Secretary of State. This certainly applies to people who don't have a father who know anything about pensions like me. Even more hectic in the government's retirement communication was the following quote from the Secretary of State, which was published in the Algemeen Dagblad on 21 June 2014: "I do advise people to look at other forms of retirement provision as well." She added: "I know people with vegetable gardens and they produce a lot of fruit and vegetables." The whole of the Netherlands thought at that moment: if my pension falls and becomes uncertain, I have to take a vegetable garden. When the government communicates this way about pensions, it fits neatly in the list of other examples. It doesn't make you happy at all. If then also the word "mostuinsocialism" becomes the second word of 2014, then there is something really wrong with government communication. I therefore invite the Secretary of State to come up with a letter of amendment with a paragraph on how public communication will become decent, transparent and transparent. I hope we can look forward to that letter of amendment before the vote. The official government's policy, not only of this government but also of the governments for it, is not to impose too many rules on people and organisations. This is exactly where the opposite happens. A whole series of rules are being drawn up which tell pension funds and others how to communicate with participants and so on. My party has no objection to this, because the clearer we can make it the better it is. However, I am curious whether the Secretary of State intends to regulate this in other areas, so that, for example, all municipalities deal with people in the assistance or with the Participation Act. That'd be great. I have a few more questions about this law. It is said that the pension information we are all about to receive should provide an opportunity for action. You have to be able to do something with the information you get. Now I ask the Secretary of State what the prospects for action are. If you're short of retirement, you should improve your pension plan. What do you have to do when you're short on retirement? There is now a great deal of mistrust and private insurers are eager to do so. The Secretary of State also undoubtedly hears the commercials on the radio saying: your pension is uncertain, see on our website what you can do about it. I looked at one of those sites. Delta Lloyd for example has a very nice site and it almost doesn't matter what you fill in. Every time it says: your financial future is not sufficiently regulated. Come on in now! So that's an invitation to go to Delta Lloyd to do something with my retirement. Does the Secretary of State consider it desirable for commercial insurers to step in on the pension disloyalty that has been sown? Does the government think that's wise? I also have a question about the pension register. In addition to the amount that the pension fund expects me to have at my retirement age, it also includes what results from a pessimistic and optimistic scenario. I am very curious to know what amounts we could expect there. Can the government provide insight into that? Could that be: Mr Ulenbelt, we expect you to receive €1,000 a month's pension? I'm just calling it a sum. Can it also be said that it will be 100 in the pessimistic scenario and 2.000 in the optimistic scenario? Can those differences be that big? I think that's the way it is for very young people. For someone as old as me, I hope the differences aren't that big. But then what? So what is the perspective of action? If I assume I only get 100, what am I gonna do? If I'm going out for 2,000, I'm definitely not gonna do anything. Maybe I'll start making debts. Will those three amounts lead to me wearing a bikini and sitting in the cold because I didn't do anything? Or that I've done something, bought a lot of clothes, and I'm in the heat? That can't be the intention of this retirement communication, can it? So I sincerely wonder whether adding these amounts will not lead to more confusion rather than more certainty. So the question is how big the differences are. Now I have seen that a uniform calculation methodology is being developed for these scenarios. What does it look like? What are the possible outcomes of that? I also read that the pension sector has developed it again so that it can carry it out itself. That whole calculation system comes into a ministerial arrangement, that's what I've read. The most important information is thus put into a ministerial arrangement which can have far-reaching consequences for people's decisions. I have a feeling, but the Secretary of State has to say if I'm wrong, that there's a lot of ICT coming in to fill the pension register with all this data. We've already got the first signals. At first, it was intended to go straight ahead, but we see in the first letter of amendment to section 19 that there will be a Royal Decree to regulate its introduction "in relation to implementation technical aspects." Most of the time, that's ICT. I wonder, with all the debacles we have seen in this area, whether it is justified to do so. Would the Secretary of State care to explain that? Or is it advisable to say already, in the interest of those two scenarios: we are at risk here, so should we? Of course, the biggest form of miscommunication was what the ABP did this week. I would like to ask the Secretary of State if she would have this affair investigated by the supervisor, DNB or the AFM. My second question is whether the Secretary of State would like to use the influence of the government to reverse the rebate that these people have unexpectedly received. The government has half the number of ABP seats. The discount can be up to €200 or €300, which in some cases is a lot of money. It's about 20,000 people. I understand it's being prepared for lawsuits. The Secretary of State would be a great pension communicator, because that is what this is all about if she were to say: Mr Ulenbelt, together with the Minister for Housing and the National Service we are going to wash that piggy; that money will simply be returned to the people. There is a lot of talk about communicating, but in this case it seems much more important to compensate. So not communicating, but compensating! Those people wouldn't have been helped if they had known earlier that they would have lost that amount. I therefore hope that the Secretary of State will undertake to do so, otherwise I shall table a motion in the second term. There are quite a few people at their wits' end. This morning I had a crying man from Rotterdam on the phone, who and passerby said that after the elections the Labour Party should not come to power in Rotterdam, because he did not know what would happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u22	Let us try to stick to the order of this debate. It's about retirement communication now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u23	I was just saying what that man said to me. That man gave me arguments that I think I should encourage the Secretary of State to make up for this. Let's just stick with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u24	Mr. Chairman. How can I react to Mr Ulenbelt? Perhaps I should not; that is perhaps the most wise way of communicating and that is what we are talking about today. And it is also nice to have a quiet debate on pensions, because that is not always the case. With such a communication law, there is always the question: why are we doing this? Well, there are a few reasons for that. The current information is not sufficiently effective; I think everyone agrees with that. There is also less confidence in the pension system; that is why I think we should communicate better, each in its own role. There is quite a change in the system, which also leads to the necessary communication. In any case, man is not a gay economist and is not unambiguous either. I have just noticed that my colleague Ulenbelt has a huge folder in which he has kept all his pension schemes. I was so tired of that folder once that I immediately cleaned up, after which I left only the notes that I thought I would need. The question now is: who is wise? I hope I will get it all by e-mail later, but perhaps Mr Ulenbelt will not again. Well, we're gonna improve that. There will be more general requirements for the pension information. There will be a clear letter when people have a new job or change jobs. There's gonna be icons, and there's gonna be layering. There will be a uniform pension statement that will only give insight into what has been built up. The much mentioned www.mijnpensioenoverzicht.nl will soon have to give more insight into the future. And yes, we're going to digitize! To date, pension funds have not done so or have hardly done so. There have already been a few examples of things where things are not going very well. The ABP has been discussing several times, also in response to the oral questions last Tuesday. Moreover, this law does not provide a solution to this, other than that we can now once again call on all pension funds in this country, the ABP and the smaller ones, to prepare people properly if there is any change to a scheme that affects them, if they feel the need to do so. Another colleague has already reported it, and I would also like to start by saying that 71% of people are not open to pension information. I think that is quite a big thing, because we all know that our expectations for our pension are generally far too positive. I think that this law is a first step towards improving that; not more, but not less. It is important that we start communicating in an understandable way and also in a timely manner. I have a few more questions about that. Pension 1-2-3 is a good step, as well as working with unambiguous logos, wherever you are. But first see if people think it's all understandable. The first examples I have seen, including those in the layers below, still contain a great deal of text. Experience has shown that not everyone who is going to read completely. It has also been mentioned that there are still a lot of channels of communication. They have mypensionoverzicht.nl. Everyone has their own UPO. One gets information through his employer. There are several websites and different authorities are involved in this. So it wouldn't be such a bad idea to put together a number of communication channels in the long term and take another step in this direction. I'd like to hear what the cabinet thinks about that. Communication integration of the third pillar should also be possible, not now or in the long term. Furthermore, there is a problem with making them accessible, so putting them on a website. For example, there are insurers, but also large pension funds, which have hundreds if not thousands of schemes. It's a lot to just put them on a website and ask participants to find their way in it. At the same time, we would like this to be accessible to those who enter into a pension scheme, who is in a pension scheme or, as Mr Omtzigt said, who has left an employer and therefore wants to look back at his pension scheme. How could we best solve this? By publishing all the regulations in their entirety, we see a kind of digital jungle that does not benefit participants. Mr Ulenbelt already spoke about the perspective of action. People need to know at what moments if they get a new job or other personal situation or become self-employed they can do something and what choices they have. My party makes no secret of the fact that it is questioning the choices that can be made. In fact, we prefer people to be put forward with the right proposals instead of having to choose a forest of possibilities. That's still an art. We also have a political debate on this. Finally, I have two specific questions. The pension register contains an overview of all your pension and the AOW rights you have built up. It is good that this register is improved, that it shows the net amounts per month instead of the gross annual amounts and that participants can compare their current income. Somewhere in the underlying AMvB that we have now been sent, however, there is also an article that introduces an instrument for the pension register that allows members to determine whether their pension will be sufficient in relation to their expenses. That is an attempt to develop the register very substantially into a more general financial planner. If you really want to do that, we'll read it like that.You'll need mortgage data and data from your partner. This is going to be a very different story, not only from an ICT technical point of view, but also from the point of view of the privacy of people and how we deal with all this data. We are not, therefore, in favour of this, simply from the point of view of clarity. I would like to receive a response from the government on this point. I would add that this is about the concept of the AMvB. We have been sent the draft decision. It concerns Article 9d (c).
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u25	It's an interesting question, but I just want to know if I understand Mrs Vermeij correctly. She mentions as one of the things you then need to make your partner's income, if you have it, visible. I have read in the State Secretary's replies that the purpose of the pension register is to regulate this year, regardless of the decision to which Mrs Vermeij refers. I suppose Mrs Vermeij is very much in favour of that, isn't she? It just seemed like she didn't want either.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u26	I am in favour of that, because it is relevant to what you might expect later. However, if we have to introduce all kinds of financial data, including mortgage data, and we do not quite know how we dealt with this in the pension register, then I think that is far too much of a link. I wouldn't want that. This instrument, at least as it stands in the draft decision, could lead to this. That can't be the intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u27	On that point, I understand Mrs Vermeij's approach. I think I understood her correctly, but I do not hear her objecting in any way to the fact that within a year, if I am right, the pension register also includes the partner's income and that you can then look at it in conjunction and log in together?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u28	No, that seems relevant to me. I end with the beginning: the retirement consciousness. That awareness does not appear to be great, and I am referring in particular to the openness to find out a little more about the pension. There is therefore still a great temptation to take place. Of course, I call on pension funds to start this temptation and to take people by the hand in a nice, clear and clear way. This can also be enhanced by showing you which part of your salary goes to the pension and which part is paid by the employer for your pension. Actually, you don't see that anywhere; there's a percentage somewhere but you just don't know it exactly. For the PvdA it is very important for participants to have more insight into the premium they pay themselves and into the premium they pay employers. Now they only see their own contribution on the pay slip and do not know what their employer is contributing, which might be enlightening, as most employers account for more than half of the contribution. The government also considers this insight important but does not want employers to mention it on the UPO, the pay slip or the annual statement. And yet we want to. How can that be?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u29	Mr. Chairman. Most people's retirement consciousness is low. It usually starts with the first reading glasses and one often prefers to go to the dentist rather than to look into his pension situation. This bill must change that. 50PLUS is happy with the intention and principles of this bill. Not the amount of information but its dosage comes at the centre with the aim to better reach the participant and address information needs more effectively. Information must be correct, clear and balanced. According to the government, the participant must know how much pension he or she can expect, become aware of the risks and gain insight into his or her options. The gap between what the pension participant expects and what can be achieved needs to be narrowed. First of all, I would like to focus briefly on the communication standards. "Correct, clear and balanced" are open but not empty standards for communication. The legal standard "correct" is a result obligation. The government indicates that the testing standards can be completed at a later stage. 50PLUS asks about the value and significance of these open standards. Pensioners can easily be accused, as my impression is, of information being insufficiently balanced, because that standard is open. The legislator does not fill that out. The supervisor's gonna work on this. Will these standards be developed in consultation with the pension field? I would like to hear a view from the Secretary of State. 50PLUS welcomes the government's ambition to improve communication on pensions. I would like to put the important question to that effect: how real is the government's very high ambition. The legislator wants to ensure that people can make a realistic assessment of their pension claims and risks. Efforts are being made to show what inflation means for retirement. The future purchasing power of the pension must be made tangible. We ask the Secretary of State how real this ambition is. Is this even feasible? The pension depends on many variables, such as economic development, the stock market, interest rate developments, indexation, discount and personal events in life. The pension is not least dependent on the government itself, which, with its policy, plays a major role in the development of pensions. At first sight, therefore, I think that the level of the information and communication ambition is very high. What should a participant, for example, have the indication that his retirement pension may be €5,000 in the future, but also €4,000 or €6,000? What is the scope for action and what rights can be derived from it? Short and good, what can one do with this? How is it made clear to the participant that even these pension scenarios are surrounded with the necessary uncertainty and that it can be even worse? Worse than the worst-case scenario or the worst-case scenario, but this seems very unlikely to be better than the best-case scenario due to the measures put forward earlier. 50PLUS believes that it is necessary to communicate fairly and fully about the pension to be reached. This means, first and foremost, making the spirit ripe for more modest pension outcomes, especially as a result of the strengthened financial review framework of pension funds. That is not a nice but a real message. In my view, that should be the government's first communication ambition. Indeed, the government explicitly committed itself to the communication standards 'correct, clear and balanced' for its own actions and policies in response to the report in response to a question I asked. Does the Secretary of State share this primary communication ambition I have formulated? The government indicates that the participant wants to know whether the amount he will receive on retirement is sufficient to continue the current lifestyle. I can say in advance that this will be very difficult with the new retirement rules of this cabinet. The government wants to further offer in or through the pension register an instrument that helps the participant to determine the adequacy of pension household income in relation to expenditure. It is in itself useful to offer the participant a tool for his personal financial planning, but it seems to be 50PLUS wise to limit the pension register itself to the pension domain and what is directly associated with it. Can the Secretary of State comment on this? 50PLUS asks the government to ensure that the written information is maintained as long as there is a need for it. Can this be confirmed? Digitisation is important and can lead to cost savings, but appropriate information security for older people who are dependent on it is also important. The note following the report states that there may be grounds for continuing to inform pensioners over a certain age in writing. Can the Secretary of State explain this further? Before going into the various parts of the legislative proposal, I have a fundamental question. What does this bill add for older people and especially for pensioners? I see four information flows, but I do not yet see how they will provide more clarity and insight for pensioners than the current information. The pensioner will soon receive documents for his tax return, the Uniform Pension Statement and an overview of individual and aggregated benefits including AOW in the pension register. He gets all the added benefits in three scenarios. In addition, there will be information about the fund's coverage, whether or not to index and so on. Does this give the pensioner more insight into the development of pension and purchasing power? That is our fundamental question. Isn't it getting less clear for him? The Pension 1-2-3 will replace the initial letter, which is perceived by many as complicated and inscrutable. 50PLUS welcomes this part of the bill. Reduced information is much more suited to the information needs, which vary. The Uniform Pension Statement, the UPO, will be an annual pension overview which will review and provide insight into accrued claims with the pension administrator, the value growth in the past year, and the information on supplementing and any reduction in pension claims. How is the UPO looked back? When it comes to information on discounts and indexes from recent years, should it not be about the whole period of pension building to give a real insight in this way? 50PLUS does not consider it wise to no longer include in the UPO any information about the expected pension income in the future. This latest information will be published on the website of the pension register. In line with the comments made by the financial security advisers and the Pension Federation, it seems to me that it is not sensible and illogical to offer primary, fundamental data that are directly related, such as accumulated pension claims and the expected pension benefits, distributed in different places. We have therefore tabled an amendment to amend the UPO on this point. Furthermore, 50PLUS believes, as well as the domes of pensioners, that the way in which pensioners are informed about their gross and net benefits should be maintained every year. Can the Secretary of State answer that? The usual annual pension statements of the pension fund for pensioners are important for the tax return. In addition, we now have the Uniform Pension Statement for pensioners, which is no longer free of form. The claims from different UPOs can therefore easily be added together. What does this add for pensioners compared to the current information from the annual pension statements? If a pensioner so requests, the pension administrator must also reflect the expected pension, based on an expected, pessimistic and optimistic scenario. 50PLUS asks why a distinction is made here between active participants and people who retire after the date of introduction of the law. These people can find the expected pension scenarios by default in the pension register. The current pensioners are and remain excluded from this pension register, if I understand correctly. People who are retired before the law enters into force should also have access to this information in the same way as it can contribute to a better perspective of action. It seems important to 50PLUS that pensioners should already have a standard understanding of the influence of inflation, purchasing power and the potential risks to the purchasing power of pension income. I'd like to hear the Secretary of State's views. With the domes of pensioners, I would ask for a further explanation of the explanatory statement, which states that a UPO for pensioners should not contain the same information as for the participant, but that all pensioners should receive the same information. In short, what is changing about the existing practice? The pension register will be expanded with new functionalities. It gives an indication of the personal joint pension that has been built up by all pension administrators. It provides the best possible insight into the total pension income to be achieved, so AOW and supplementary pension together. 50PLUS does not agree with the fact that annuities, as many people have said here, are not included. This is a product whose purpose, scope, form of product, taxation and regulation are similar or almost equal to pension at both the building-up and the benefit stages. About 900,000 entrepreneurs/zzp'ers have an annuity. Any reason, I think, to include it in the pension register. I have tabled an amendment to this effect. As regards the provision of information on discounts, indexation and reindexation, the Government indicates that it is desirable to indicate in the letter of information prior to a discount or an indexation measure the impact of the discount on pension claims and pension rights. It is also stated that it is desirable for members and beneficiaries to have an idea of the level of coverage of their pension fund with a description of what this means for the indexation. 50PLUS considers that the provision of this information is not only desirable but should be mandatory. This is, after all, part of a balanced supply of information. The government states in the documents that efforts are being made to minimise the cost to pension administrators. We ask the Secretary of State to explain in detail how this is possible. In the long term, more and more digitally and layered, more, more thorough and also new pension information will be personalised and fully available. The way in which pension administrators take care of the pension communication goes thoroughly. How can this be achieved without significant additional costs? Can the Secretary of State elaborate on that? In this connection, I would like to draw your attention to comments from the Pension Register Foundation of 19 February. In response to a question of 50PLUS, the government states that pension administrators together with the Pension Register Foundation could launch a public campaign on the impact of this bill on informing citizens about their pension. 50PLUS asks the government to facilitate this public campaign and to cooperate with the sector. This also contributes to clear pension communication. The Government intends to examine three years after the entry into force of the Act to what extent these measures have contributed to a better understanding of the participant's pension. Can this three-year evaluation period be explained? Why exactly three years? Why not two years or another period? Finally, I would like to make one final comment. 1 July 2015 is the intended date of implementation of the Act. 50PLUS strongly requests that the law be drafted in regulations and the date of entry of the law into force with the pension practitioners.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u30	At the end of the day, I have one more question. In concluding his speech, Mr Krol indicated that the date of implementation of the Act was set for 1 July 2015. Mr Krol has tabled an amendment to make the third pillar in mypensionoverzicht.nl a part of the law. This would mean that this should also take place from 1 July 2015, if the law enters into force. To what extent does Mr Krol intend to maintain this, including in the context of ICT, feasibility and so on? How tight is the deadline for Mr Krol?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u31	That deadline is not so tight, but I am very curious about the answer of the Secretary of State and its feasibility. It seems very important to me to see if we can do this. I'm very curious how the Secretary of State estimates this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u32	I have asked a number of questions about this in the first period. I have prepared a motion, and perhaps we can agree on it after the Secretary of State's reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u33	I think that would be very desirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u34	Mr. Chairman. This is indeed a somewhat quieter debate. Unlike a number of other legislative proposals we have seen here, this is a bill prepared in reasonable harmony. There is also a positive operative part of the Council of State, which we have not seen in all legislative proposals. Furthermore, there is broad support within the pension world. However, that does not prevent me from asking a number of sharp questions. Despite broad support in the pension world, I still want to put another person at the centre, and that is the participant in the pension scheme. This is typically a bill negotiated by pension funds, social partners and insurers. However, what I think is important, and what is important to the CDA, is what rights this gives to the participant. A pension is for most people the most important financial claim they have, or perhaps the second most important if they have a paid-up home. A pension is therefore about the most important asset. The way you communicate about it is therefore not very little important. Let us begin with the biggest change proposed here, namely that the annual pension statement no longer communicates about the pension to be reached, but about the accrued rights. Those who think this is a small step are wrong. With this you take a fundamentally further step on the road to something more like a defined contribution than a defined benefit. It indicates how much you have built up, but if you want to have an expectation, with all kinds of scenarios, you still have to log in somewhere. That is at odds with the purpose of the bill. The aim is to give people a better understanding of how much pension they have later. Why does the government choose to inform about what they have now, when they want to know what they're building? And when we talk about those accumulated rights, is that including the survivor's pension and the disability pension that is to be placed annually on the UPO? I'm asking these questions because I've been here a little too long. I've seen a few proposals here. The UPO has only worked for a few years. We also had all kinds of indexing labels: boats and coins. By the way, none of these indexing labels ever took into account the fact that your pension can also be reduced. The fact that they were never imported means that those boats could never be underwater or the coins could be negative. Unfortunately, however, this has happened in the case of a large number of pensioners and active persons. So the question is: how future-proof is this? I'm asking about future resilience, because one of the nasty things you're dealing with as a pension spokesman is that you get emails from people that say: I worked at company x twenty years ago and I built up a pension claim there. Then there is usually a name of an insurer or pension fund that no longer exists. We had a thousand pension funds a few years ago, but that number is halved. Insurers have also been subject to a very substantial consolidation effort. Then the person says: I don't have the overview anymore. Or he says, "I have an old note somewhere." I can assure you that there are notes which one does not know, even after talking to two pension experts, whether there were the claims to be made or the claims that had already been built up. Those notes are completely unclear. This is exactly the kind of thing you want to avoid. I will not go into the question of whether Mrs Vermeij or Mr Ulenbelt has done the right thing and whether only the last pension statements or all pension statements should be kept. But it must be possible for that person to retrieve all pension statements. I'll get back to you in a minute. I'd like to build that up from now on. We have also tabled an amendment to this effect. In doing so, we will ensure that a new environment is created in which all operators are obliged to send here. If you're at the ABP, I imagine you don't need it. The ABP existed 50 years ago and that will also exist in a certain form in 50 years' time. But with other pension administrators, with all these mergers and acquisitions, we're less sure of that. If you can't get back where your rights have gone, then that can be very significant rights, you don't know where you stand. Does the Secretary of State share this view? Perhaps she says: the way the CDA shapes this is not the right one; I am open to other forms. However, I think it is important that, just as the government has been keeping an accurate record of the construction of the labour record since 1998, we also keep an accurate record of the pension rights that have been built up. Then I'll look at Mrs. Lodders. I hope that we will achieve a certain degree of integration with her Amendment No. 16, to ensure that, if you have such an old overview, you can also immediately click through to see which regulation is underneath. If the overview is not complete and you want to see what it is worth, then you know what that regulation looked like then.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u35	I am still a little searching for the way in which Mr Omtzigt would like to give this form. This bill proposes to make all the regulations public. The amendment I tabled on behalf of my group and Mrs Vermeij is not intended to make this public. After all, that is a huge cost. I do not need to tell Mr Omtzigt that saving 0.3% on costs leads to a higher pension, to an increase of 3 to 4%. What is Mr Omtzig's view of this? Any minor adjustment in terms of regulation should then also be subject to this. I would also like to refer to the small debate we had yesterday during Question Time. An adjustment of agreements is then included.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u36	I'll explain how I see that. By the way, I don't know if it's that expensive to put all the stuff online. I see that it is very expensive to match: where do I find the scheme that applies to me? That's where the problem is. This is mainly the case with insurers and less with pension funds; let us be very honest about that. Insurance companies have far more schemes than pension funds. How do I see it? So if you get a simplified uniform pension statement, you can no longer get those twenty pages but a few pages, and maybe only one or two pages after that directive are going to be able to click directly on the document underneath. That may be a little more expensive at the beginning, but if you want to look at your rights later, that's the only way to record those rights at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u37	Isn't it true that a participant who starts a new scheme with an employer gets a start letter for that? That's pension 1-2-3 now. In it you can click layered, eventually also to the scheme and the pension fund. I have outlined the link in the perspective of the VVD to what mypensionoverzicht.nl should look like. Shouldn't there be the collection back there? Then I'm talking about the portal where as a participant you can actually find everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u38	It can be paired. If it is in Pension 1-2-3 or in the current Pension Register and it is different from my proposal, I am fine with that. What matters to me is that this link is preserved, so that it can be found ten years later. I know it can't be done retroactively, but a starting letter from now needs to be available in ten years' time so that you can find out exactly what the rights are. That's what I want to bail out.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u39	So I do not hear Mr Omtzigt saying that it must be publicly accessible to everyone. It is purely about the participant, the employer and the pension fund.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u40	It would be my preference, but I understand what Mrs Lodder is saying. It is and will remain a private contract. The question is whether everyone should understand everyone's contract everywhere. That would be very nice, by the way. There are pension schemes for certain directors, Mrs Vermeij cites the example of schemes that apply to three people, which would be very nice to go in with all of them. That sounds really great to me, but that's another metier. At least that's not what the pension register was for.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u41	What Mr Omtzig wants to build sounds sympathetic to me, but it also seems very complicated to me. We should not include things in laws that will not be enforceable at all. Has Mr Omtzigt not considered not to do so by amendment, but to call on the Secretary of State by motion to see if this can be done? I have to advise my group later, but I do not know what to say yes or no to at this point. Why does Mr Omtzigt choose an amendment instead of a motion to have the Secretary of State properly figure out how his wish, which I like, can be realised?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u42	It's complicated the moment you don't have those documents. What you actually do is that you create a mailbox for every Dutchman in which the annual UPO is sent with a link to the valid regulations linked to the bsn. At the moment when the pension administrator sends that e-mail to Mr Van Weyenberg, an e-mail automatically goes to that message box, which is well-protected and ICT-technically well-preserved. That's actually all that's going on. That is still not something I could program one evening, but it is not a very complicated overview that we are making here. We do not add any new information.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u43	In this house, we regularly say that we need to be very careful about these kinds of ICT pathways and learn lessons. I will listen with interest to the reply of the Secretary of State, but I would suggest to Mr Omtzig that he should take that other route on his own.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u44	I understand that remark, which affects my next point: cost transparency. We have also tabled a very nice motion on this subject, but motions are being tabled quickly, but they are being carried out slowly. This cost transparency is not yet in place, while it should be an important part of the legislative proposal. It is less important if your pension appointment is a defined benefit claim based on the end or middle wage, but at the moment it is much more often a claim to a pot of money. If the cost transparency is not clear, then the pension fund or the insurer can actually incur more costs and charge on the money, when you do not know that. According to Article 46a of the proposed Pension Act, there will soon be a need to tell us about the costs incurred. Can the government provide access to the accuracy of this and to the liability? This is where liability really comes in. Imagine that I have €1,000 here and the pension fund says that it charges €3 annually. Can the fund then charge €10 annually? If that happens for 30 years, it eats €200. These are not unrealistic amounts. What can I do if that is miscommunicated? Do I have the right to enforce this? Liability is the piece that's the worst deal in this bill. If anything goes wrong, I hardly have any rights. Let me give you an example. The pension administrator only needs to check if the email address is valid. If instead of ".nl" is mistyped ".n," it is the responsibility of the pension executor. But of course he's never gonna tell us that he made a typo if there's a problem. That's another reason to put everything in a central place. If the e-mail never reaches the data subject, then the information does not reach him either. In the event that the information does reach the person concerned but the costs are mismentioned, there is a very vague sentence on the question of when a person can be held liable. If you see that the information is not correct, you cannot, as an individual, turn to the AFM, because that is not allowed under the Pension Act, but you have to go to the Ombudsman. This is the most important financial claim of people. What guarantee is there that the individual pensioner or the individual worker can say: I have a right to do so and I can derive rights from it? We would like to see this clearly seen. Mr Ulenbelt's example appealed to me very much in this respect. Of course, the ABP simply changed its rules. It has said that we are no longer giving the partner bonus.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u45	To make things even more complicated, the ABP, when it was "privatised" as it is called, set up an additional scheme in 1997 for people who are not entitled to the AOW partner bonus, and then decided that it would stop at the time when the AOW partner bonus was no longer available. However, it has never spoken to anyone about this. So it's even more complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u46	That's exactly where the problem is: it wasn't in the UPO. The interesting thing is that the AOW partner bonus does not end in February but in March. So it didn't end this month at all. They pretended to give an extra month, but in fact they give a month too little. This is linked to the accelerated increase in the AOW age. It doesn't make any sense. There's nothing wrong with what they've done!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u47	I know it's complicated, but this is another debate. It's about retirement communication now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u48	The communication about this has gone completely wrong. That is why I gave this example.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u49	In all honesty, this brings us to another debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u50	But on the last point, I agree with Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u51	That is well noted for the Acts. Please continue, Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u52	I now turn to a fictional example of miscommunication with a fictional large pension fund. The problem is of course: what kind of rights do you have if you are not informed at all? That is what this whole debate is about. There is an uncertainty margin for pensions, which Mr Ulenbelt does not like, but that is a property of a funded pension system. But if you're just not informed, what kind of rights do you have? What kind of rights do I have if a surcharge expires without communication? Can I then hold my fund liable or not? If I don't, there's a big difference with all the other legislation on products I buy in any store in this world. If I buy a fridge, I get a warranty. It's a statutory arrangement. Even if that guarantee is not given on a piece of paper, I can still go back to the store on the basis of the Civil Code if the refrigerator is broken within two years. I can say: here is the Civil Code; I don't need to buy any warranty from you, Media Market, but you just have to fix this product; I just have that expectation. With the pension it seems as if the expectation is valid until the moment I open my overview or the next letter. That is not what the CDA Group wants. There is EUR 1,400 billion, and there must be careful communication on this. This includes a limited liability for miscommunications, and I will just say the word 'in its entirety'. If it is not in the bill, the bill as such is not valid for the employee, because a fund can always do something else, no matter what information someone gets. That is why I ask the Secretary of State to give a comprehensive answer in the first term to the question of what rights can be derived from the communication given and how that can be enforced by DNB, the AFM or the court. Let me be absolutely clear that I do not want to see any lawsuit, of course, but you will get to that. The last example of this is the AOW age. It was rightly mentioned here. It is very nice that there should now be mandatory communication about the expectations of the AOW, but if the government writes that wrong, does it mean that the participant is entitled to that or that he will be without extra income for another month? That is the real question, and we would like a clear answer from the government. I look forward to that with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u53	Thank you. Mr Omtzigt, it is important to say that we have not yet been able to find the amendment that has been discussed for so long. It is important to say that, also for the Secretary of State, because she will have to respond to it later. The Secretary of State has indicated that he needs a suspension in order to prepare for her response.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u54	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Members who have put a lot of pennies in their pocket about the Pension Communication Act. All those who have spoken about it have said that it is a good plan that funds and executives communicate well with their participants. We have no disagreements on this. The same applies to the pension field. There, too, it is considered that this communication regulation is feasible. We have, of course, drawn on this very closely. The spokesmen have asked a large number of fragmented questions. I usually pick up a few blocks and try to answer staccato. I will now, but it will be a little more fragmented than it normally is. I apologize for that. It is important to emphasise once again that the improvement of pension communication is based on the wishes of participants and on the perspective of those participants. This is central to pension communication. For this reason, we have all chosen to communicate layered. This bill makes that possible. The starting letter is replaced by low 1 of the Pension 1-2-3. This is the instrument that provides information on the main characteristics of the pension scheme. Pensioners will have more opportunities to provide digital information. Mr Krol asked if you could continue to receive the information in writing. The answer to that is yes. You can always submit a request, provided that it is once a year. We shouldn't overdo it again. The Uniform Pension Statement is getting shorter. It indicates the annual status of what the participant has built up so far. Furthermore, the pension register is expanded with a number of functionalities. This gives the participant an overview of the total expected pension income, including the AOW. Of course, he also gets insight into the consequences of certain choices, for example, of stopping working sooner or later or of changes in his personal living situation. I shall be speaking about this in a moment, as questions have been asked about it. With your permission, Mr President, I am now going to answer some of those questions. I'll start with Mrs. Lodder's. She asked if further optimisation of mypensionoverzicht.nl is possible. She also wants to know if I can confirm that it is limited to retirement. The answer is yes, further optimisation is possible. This will also happen in the coming years, in close consultation with the pension sector. It is indeed limited to the pension as such. Mr Krol also asked a question about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u55	Because this also concerns the specific point I raised in relation to the AMvB and the instrument mentioned in that paragraph...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u56	I was going to come to that, but I can answer that question now. Mrs Vermeij and Mrs Lodder have asked if I want to prevent too many horns and bells from being hung on, in the sense that you could also spend the rest of your life in it. If the Chamber attaches itself to it, I have understood the Members correctly. Of course, there are always links in "the digital."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u57	The minister says "fly" but I actually mean "get out."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u58	"Flying out" more.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u59	Yeah, fly out. The instrument simply suggests an ICT system in which a real planning can be made, including everything in your life, from which you have income elsewhere, mortgages and the like. It's actually there on purpose. I don't want to.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u60	I don't want that kind of complicity, either. That has to be very clear. We are going to look at the text very carefully and then we are going to get it out. I was interested that you can always click on other websites, for example from the Nibud, if you need additional information. However, this is based on your pension for a second. Mrs Lodders and Mr Omtzigt want to know exactly what rights you have and who you can hold liable on the basis of this law. If there is a conditional supplement, you can of course not call anyone on it. However, if there is a promised supplement, i.e. an unconditional supplement, you can contact the pension administrator if that supplement is not paid. Of course, it's always about this legislation giving you insight into what you can ultimately base your income on when you're entitled to a pension. But of course you can't call the pension administrator on it even if you're still building up. That should be very clear. Then I come to Mr Omtzig's question. What kind of bail...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u61	Mr Omtzigt has another question on the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u62	I understand what the Secretary of State says about unconditional payment. However, the law creates a new framework, namely that you must communicate fully, correctly and transparently. If that doesn't happen, how far away do you have to be before you can hold it accountable? That is exactly what happened in the example given. There was an expectation among all those people, and it wasn't by accident that the surcharge would continue the month after. In about 25 of the communication was that it was a conditional supplement that would end. That way you can't derive any right from it. Is the Secretary of State prepared to carry out an analysis which shows exactly how far you have to go before you can hold a fund or an executive liable? Is it also prepared to consider whether it is necessary to change liability legislation afterwards, so that we know when miscommunication participants can actually derive rights from that wrong communication?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u63	I have, of course, followed the first period of the debate well. What kind of guarantee is there for individual participants in case of incorrect or incomplete information, that is the crucial question from that first term. The participant can always report it to the AFM. The AFM can use such a signal when monitoring, but the AFM cannot, of course, go to an executioner for an individual complaint. For this purpose, the participant can go to the pension administrator, to the Ombudsman and, where appropriate, to the courts. That's how the steps for the contestant are in it. That is the guarantee for a participant who feels uncomfortable on the basis of communication.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u64	This is exactly the answer we received in the written round, with exactly these steps. That is true, but the question is how far we, as legislators, define that you must deviate from the prescribed communication until you have a legally enforceable right to a supplement that you could reasonably expect to receive. It turns out, for example, that you get a month or a few months later pension or AOW while you were counting on it, because that was in the communication or because you had certain supplements. This is about your most important possession. That's the analysis I want to get. I understand he's not gonna be in the debate today. That is why I am considering a motion, but I am trying to avoid it by asking for this commitment. Is the Secretary of State prepared to identify within six months how far you have to go and whether more liability is desirable so that rights are more enforceable? The Secretary of State has already indicated that you can lodge a complaint with the AFM, but that the AFM does not have to deal with individual complaints while there may be rather distressing situations. Is the Secretary of State prepared to make that analysis and share it with the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u65	Of course, I am always willing to make analyses when it comes to the content. However, I am now thinking very deeply about what the added value of this analysis might be. If a group feels uncomfortable in communication, the AFM can indeed do so towards a pension executive. If an individual feels unholy, you have the steps I have just mentioned. Mr Omtzigt asks me to look closely at when exactly that tipping point is on the agenda of the nasty treatment. That's hard to cut with scissors. I am therefore looking for the added value of such a study towards the Chamber on my part. I think it is very important that both individuals and groups who feel unholy can walk the paths we already have.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u66	Mr Omtzigt, your third question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u67	The AFM hands out a fine to the fund, but that's not what these people want. They want to be able to get justice. That shouldn't happen at the first reading of the first comma or something. We're not waiting for full justice. The point is that apert miscommunicates. I can show examples of people who really had expectations from letters or who later found that they were wrong for a year. For example, the VRS was miscalculated, which saves hundreds of euros a month or means several months without VRS. When can a person go to court and derive rights from the UPO? As Mr Van Weyenberg rightly said, there is such a disclaimer online that you should not derive any rights from it. We need to be clear about that, so that we know exactly what all this communication really means right now. It stands one-on-one in an insurance policy; you can derive very clear rights from it. That's why there are always so many nasty little prints behind it and then undress it again, so I can see what the Secretary of State is talking about. We are talking about a claim of 1 400 billion. Well, then it's obvious that you want to show me how to secure it, isn't it? In very nasty situations, it can also be the difference between entitlement or no entitlement, for example on a survivor's pension. I'd like to see that clarified.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u68	For the sake of clarity, we are talking in particular about the UPO. Mr Omtzigt says, even in the first term, that he would like to start at this time or on 1 July 2015, when the law enters into force. He goes on to say that from that moment on the UPO only indicates that we must have that clear then what you have built up and what rights you can derive from it. That's what we're talking about. Do I understand Mr. Overzigt correctly?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u69	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u70	I think it's worth keeping that under review. I would like to say to the Chamber that I will present my further findings to the Chamber within the next six months.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u71	Mr Ulenbelt. No, I see that Mr Ulenbelt is satisfied with that. Thank you for your commitment. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u72	I'm just talking about the UPO. I think it is important to underline that. I come to a question from Mr Van Weyenberg. It's a little ripe and green, but I'm fine. I told you, it's fragmented. He asked whether the governance of the pension register might have to change in the long term. I have chosen to give the Pension Register Foundation the responsibility to bring about enlargement. I'm in agreement with the register on this. The steps the foundation is taking look good. That gives me confidence. I do not want to anticipate any other governance. For the time being, I will continue with the foundation in this way. Mr Van Weyenberg also asked whether the information in the pension register could be more up-to-date. This is possible. The concept of the AMvB stipulates that changes to pension entitlements and entitlements must be processed within four months, so that current data can be seen through the pension register. Then there is a question from Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u73	Before we get to that question, we first have another question from Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u74	It's about changes. From this point of view, I am also entitled to count on claims on the regular structure and not just on changes in the personal situation. It therefore also applies to the regular build-up of pension claims. You're gonna see it more current than you are now. Do I understand the Secretary of State that well?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u75	Yeah, of course it has everything to do with your build-up. You have to be able to have that insight. So the answer is yes. Mr Van Weyenberg's next question was a question from many, including Mrs Vermeij. Can we extend that pension register even further, especially with third-pillar products such as annuities? Yeah, that's what we want to work towards in the future. This is still a huge job, but I will inform the Chamber more about it. I think this is an added value for everyone, so that everyone can have a good understanding of the whole old age provision. I intend to put a deadline on that for the Chamber to be informed within six months.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u76	I hear the Secretary of State specifically referring to the third pillar products. Is the Secretary of State still coming to my question, in which I outlined a future picture of mypensionoverzicht.nl? This will include the UPOs and Pension 1-2-3. It is and actually a portal for the participants in which everything about pensions can be found. 'Cause this is part of the deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u77	I will come back to that, but I can give the answer now. I think it is wise to start quietly with these three instruments: the UPO, the Pension 1-2-3 and the pension register. We can make the people involved work with that. Of course, things could be further integrated in the long term. I want to be clear, open and honest in this. I could tell the Chamber that I'm going to do my best to do this very quickly. It is already quite a job to post these three instruments well and make them passable to the people. If the three of us start getting intertwined quickly again, I think it's gonna be a complicated tangle for people. I'd watch out to do that, but I never say.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u78	I think it can be a contribution for a participant or a person if he has his own environment where all the information can be found. It will only be easier if the UPO and Pension 1-2-3 are there. I will certainly come back to that in the second term. Another question was how the State Secretary looks at making mypensionoverzicht.nl accessible to pensioners.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u79	I am certainly in favour of that. That will be another step, including for the pension register. I've discussed that with them carefully. I'm very much in favour of that. I have just addressed Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Madlener's question on annuity. Mr Krol asked if the cabinet would facilitate the public campaign for the pension register. My answer to that is that I want to look together with the pension register at how, when and by whom exactly this public campaign could be conducted. I think the Pension3days is a good vehicle for that. Every year, of course, we have the Pension3days, in which we can give a good insight into this campaign. We are always involved in this, so I would also like to do so this year. Mrs Lodders asked if we have an overview of sources of information, of pension sites, linked to the government. The site mijnpensioenoverzicht.nl is the source of information for the participant, because that information is personal and therefore indicates what changes mean for the participant. The Pension Viewer has a close link with mypensionoverzicht.nl, but offers general information. In the further optimization of mypensionoverzicht.nl, the PensionViewer is also carefully considered. Mr Ulenbelt noted that the legislative proposal lacked government communication on pensions and actually invited me to come forward with a letter of amendment on that point. My ministry's website already contains a lot of information about the government's pension policy. The subject of this bill is pension communication by pension administrators. That is why I do not come forward with a letter of amendment on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u80	In order to keep the second term as short as possible, I would like to return to the previous point: mypensionoverzicht.nl and the Pensionvijker. I have not yet heard from the Secretary of State whether the ambition is to have the Pension Viewer in the air with up-to-date information. It's real now, I can't say any other way. There are also the Checklist Pension and the Pension Disc-of-Five. These are instruments that stop people from seeing the forest through the trees. Isn't it much wiser to take those kinds of instruments off and limit it to mypensionoverzicht.nl and the PensionViewer? Then the people will know where to find it. If I read the pension monitor correctly, you can find the first website in particular.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u81	I have to say, that's what I feel. I'm just gonna see how we can make that happen. So these are actually two questions from Mrs Lodders. The first is whether I want to further optimize Pension Viewer and the second is whether I want to review all the other websites with which the government has some commitment to see if they still have a right to exist.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u82	The second is true, but the first was not the request to further optimize the Pension Viewer. I think it is most important that the basic information is now accessible very quickly. We are currently busy renewing the website. At a time when so much is happening with retirement, it is very undesirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u83	I agree with Mrs Lodders. The update, not the optimisation, is essential.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u84	That perhaps a note of amendment is a little too much to ask, I understand a bit. This bill is the result of all kinds of problems surrounding pension funds. The government has also caused all kinds of problems over the past 10 to 20 years. Would the Secretary of State want to analyse the way in which the government's pension communication has been put together over the past 20 years? I have mentioned a number of examples. There's more to name. How about we start with a letter on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u85	I'm a historian, so I should say, "How nice, I've been going forward for the last 100 years, 20 years, and I'm gonna have to take a look at it." I'm not going to hide behind a limited capacity. I am simply going to say clearly and honestly that I do not see the added value of this at the moment. It is precisely now that I think it is so important that we improve the communication of the performers and that, on the basis of the pension dialogue that we are now conducting together, we ensure that the pension system in our country is as clear and transparent as possible. So I don't need huge back-view sessions. I have much more need to put the 21st century system in place.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u86	That disappoints me, all the more so because a historian speaks here. We could draw some lessons from it. It seems like a wonderful mission for a historian to do that. The Secretary of State doesn't see the point, but she actually says, "I don't feel like it." That's too bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u87	Well, Mr Ulenbelt is a little different from what I have said. Of course, we are building our system on what was expressed and built up in the last century. Of course we know very well what has gone well and what has gone less well. You'll build on that. I would very much like to use all the energy and commitment to do so. Looking back does not make much extra sense, but dialogue always looks at what we can learn, not only from our own history, but also from other countries, where sometimes respectable systems are at stake. I'm never too bad to learn any more, but I'm going too far to make any extra effort. Then I come to Mrs Lodder's question when I consider this information to be a success. Is that with a certain percentage of people clicking on one piece by mypensionoverzicht.nl? I do not have so much a quantitative objective. The goal is that many more people really understand the information and that this information is clear and accessible. The bill aims to do so. If people who want to know more about their pension are better able to do so, that is the goal in itself. I have already answered Mrs Vermeij's question as to whether it is desirable to put together all the channels of information. Then I come to a question from Mr Van Weyenberg. He asked me if I could go into the open standards. Of course, as a pension administrator, you should not just tell us what the good side of the low interest rate is. Then you have to name both sides openly and honestly. The "balanced" standard means that relevant advantages and disadvantages are mentioned. When it comes to the consequences of low interest rates, you must also tell them the disadvantages. The AFM uses complaints to keep very targeted monitoring. The AFM cannot deal with individual complaints but it can deal with these types of transferable complaints and will appeal to the pension administrator. Mr Krol asked: are these open standards now being developed in consultation with the pension field? Yes, this year the AFM will organise seminars with the pension sector to share best practices. The standards must remain open. Those best practices are a good way to give direction without completely filling in the standards. That's how I'm supposed to do it. Otherwise, the concrete will be poured and you won't be able to work with it properly. Mr Van Weyenberg and Mrs Vermeij have asked me to make it clear how the employers' part is embedded in the pension premium. I am not unsympathetic about that, to express it euphemistically. I will see which information carrier is best suited for this. I'll inform the Chamber about that before the summer. Mrs Lodders had a question about the real level of coverage, partly on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, which cannot be present this afternoon, but has drawn attention to this in the previous debate. Under an amendment tabled by Mr Klaver and a number of other Members of Parliament, funds must report to the Netherlands Bank the actual level of cover. The real coverage rate takes into account the future indexing of pensions accumulated so far. In the lower regulation, I have opted for an impact that is well in line with the existing ftk and ensures that the real level of coverage can also be compared between funds. But I would be happy to send a letter to the Chamber in which I will go into those choices. I think that is a good idea, because then I can also discuss it with the author, Mr Klaver van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u88	When?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u89	Should I do that in two months? Okay. Mrs Lodder asked if within three years of the entry into force of this law I could inform the Chamber about the effects and the administrative burden. That's what I intend to do. Mr Krol asked why three years? A term is always debatable, but I've had a good three-year exchange with the field. I think that's very clear, so I think three years is a good time. Mrs Lodder asked what the consequences would be for pension administrators if the information was supplied by third parties too late. Pension practitioners make agreements with, for example, employers about the provision of certain information. If those pension administrators cannot provide that information to the participant in good time, the AFM may address the performer and take measures if necessary. In doing so, the AFM takes into account whether or not the exporter has made good efforts to obtain all the information. If that performer has not done enough, then the AFM can have a "normative" conversation with the performer. If that would not help, a fine could be imposed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u90	I understand the latter. It is also necessary to arrange it in this way, but I was concerned about the situation in which a pension administrator did his utmost but in which the SVB, the UWV or the employer does not provide any or incorrect information. It is not so much a question of appealing to the pension provider. What tools or handles does the AFM have to deal with them in a different way? After all, it is crazy when an operator is called upon to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u91	I can't say right now: the AFM can call on all partners. The AFM looks very closely at the question whether an operator has made sufficient efforts to get all that material. If that is the case, then the AFM uses a kind of hardness clause that does not immediately address those normative discussions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u92	Then I conclude that if there are parties it may be the SVB, the UWV, the employer who knowingly transfer wrong information or not timely information, then the AFM does not take steps towards pension practitioners?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u93	Yes. If the pension administrators can make it clear that they have done their best to get that information but that they have not succeeded, then that is indeed the way things are going. Mr Ulenbelt asked how these scenarios work and what the perspective of action is. All pension administrators must assume the same scenario set. This is the Commission's scenario set of Parameters which also underpins the ftk. It depends on the pension scheme how big the difference is between the optimistic and pessimistic pension amount. Mr Ulenbelt also spoke about this. So what is the perspective of action? I mention a number of possibilities, because I understand that question. If suddenly it turns out that you have built less than you actually expected, you could work longer, save more, pay off your mortgage or change your spending pattern. So it's nice that you at least get an insight into what your income provision looks like after your retirement, so you can sort out a little on that. That's important to people.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u94	I know. That's what I read all the time, as the Secretary of State knows.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u95	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u96	I'm talking about what's in that prognosis. There are three numbers. How far apart can they be? Does it say 100 pessimistic, 1,000 will it be and 2,000 optimistic? Or are the differences much smaller?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u97	The calculation method will therefore yield three pension amounts. This is indeed a pessimistic amount of pension, an expected amount of pension and an optimistic amount of pension. These amounts reflect the purchasing power and risks of future pension income. It's no more and no less. It is, of course, important to see how far you are off your pension and how the economic scenario depends on it when you gain that insight. You can graft your insights on that. So it's no more and no less.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u98	It's no more and no less, but that's not much. Can the Secretary of State answer that? So a 20-year-old gets to see what it's gonna be like in 40, 50 years. There are then three amounts. How far apart can these amounts be? Did the mathematicians at DNB and SZW look into that? Could it be 100, 1,000, 2,000? If so, what am I supposed to do?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u99	Of course, it also depends very much on what you have built up to the moment Supreme. So I can't answer that in black and white. Of course, that makes a lot of sense. That's almost different per person.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u100	Finally, Mr Ulenbelt.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u101	That then raises the next question. If it is surrounded by so many uncertainties and we are in the process of making them transparent, should we put that uncertainty on the papers of those people? Shouldn't we just leave it at one amount and write that it's surrounded by uncertainty and so on? It suggests a certainty that is not certain. The Secretary of State can't even give examples, so it certainly isn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u102	I can, of course, give many examples. I could give an example almost per Dutchman, but I don't want to get away with it. It is so important that we tell pension-builders that you can of course count on a pension, but you have to bear in mind that the level of that pension depends on a number of factors, and that the purchasing power of that pension also depends on a number of factors. We just have to be honest about that. If we have learned one thing, it is that if you do not offer that insight and do not tell quite honestly that the prospect indeed depends on many factors, you then grow an expectation that sometimes turns out to be very unrealistic. I don't think that's fair. That is why working in scenarios is justified, and there Mr Ulenbelt has a point that is as clear as possible for the people concerned. Mr Krol asked what the added value of the law is for pensioners. The added value for those who are still building their pensions is probably crystal clear for everyone. The added value for pensioners is that the information to be actively provided under this bill is provided through the UPO. The UPO is crystal clear to the pensioners. That, in my opinion, is the added value of this bill. Moreover, in response to Mrs Lodders and Mrs Vermeij's questions, I have just said that I would like to associate the beneficiaries with the pension register. That too will be the added value of the legislative proposal, but that added value is not yet available. I have also already addressed Mrs Vermeij's question on how members can compare their pension income with expenditure. I have already said that I am prepared to delete this item from the AMvB, if the Chamber so wishes. I understand that this is what the Chamber wants. Mr Van Weyenberg asked a question about the possibility of including life expectancy. He'll probably table a motion on that. I am in principle in favour of this. I will talk to the pension register to see how and when such a variant can be included. If there are any implementation problems, I will inform the Chamber. I think I have answered the questions of the various Members and now I come to the amendments. The amendment in part No. 9, submitted by members Lodders and Vermeij, aims to allow the exchange of information between digital and written information by the pension administrator at most once a year. The participant can therefore change his preference no more than once a year. In reply to a question from Mr Krol, I have just said that I think this is a good idea. I leave the opinion on this amendment to the House. The amendment in part No. 16, also tabled by Mrs Lodders and Mrs Vermeij, concerns the removal of the obligation to place the information on a public website. I would like to encourage pension administrators to make certain information publicly available, so that applicants can also learn about the most important information about the pension scheme of a possible new employer. It is desirable that people who apply or consider a job change as a transfer of value should also be able to compare the main features of the old pension scheme with the new pension scheme. This can only be done if Pension 1-2-3 is on the public website. However, I understand that it is difficult for insurers to place the information on their public website, given the thousands of regulations that exist. It is easier for insurers if the relevant information can be placed by them on a private employers' portal. I am prepared to judge the motion on item No. 16 to leave it to the Chamber, on the understanding that if insurers want to make something public, they will be invited by my heart.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u103	So judge Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u104	Judgment Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u105	The Secretary of State is making a complicated turn. It actually believes that the information should be available to applicants or people who are entitled to this information, for example. Does she have a suggestion, if need be, in what way Mrs Lodder's amendment could incorporate it? I can imagine that the information does not have to be available to everyone, but in certain cases an additional law should apply. This should be included in the amendment. I think it would be a good idea to think about this before Tuesday, so that we can get this right at once.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u106	Yeah, but I don't think I'll have Columbus' egg by Tuesday. In my opinion, Mrs Lodder's amendment seeks to avoid too much red tape, especially for insurers, who have to put and maintain all these different schemes on the public website. In itself, this is very illustrative and sympathetic and the added value of applying is very clear. That is why I invite insurers to do so. However, I think it is a step too far to make it compulsory. So I agree with the thrust of the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u107	I believe that Article 46 or Article 49 gives a participant the right to obtain certain information.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u108	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u109	You could add: an applicant or someone who has an offer for a contract of employment. Then you don't have to put it on the public website. I assume that nine out of ten will not request it, let us be honest about that too, but it must be available. That's the kind of solution I was looking for. I understand that that can't be arranged in one minute, but if anything can be said about it by Tuesday, then you have tackled the problem that you should have the right to have it on the table when transferring value and when changing jobs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u110	I should also like to look at the author of the amendment. Perhaps Mrs Lodders and Mr Omtzigt could take a look at this. The amendment would then have to be amended in this way. I would not be reluctant to leave it to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u111	The amendment aims to ensure that insurance companies, in particular, but also pension funds, do not have to place all schemes publicly available on their website. The Secretary of State puts forward the argument that an applicant in that forest should be able to find the right regulations for him or her, but that is simply impossible. I very much agree with Mr Omtzigt's objective, namely that you should be able to find an arrangement in which you have once participated. I think that's anchored. I will also come forward with a motion to give this in Pension 1-2-3. However, let me pick up the glove and perhaps look at this with Mr Omtzigt. However, the amendment does not aim at that example of applicants, because they no longer see the forest through the trees. I don't think we should make it mandatory. If people want to do it voluntarily, I have no problem with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u112	Fine. Then we agree. So, judge Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u113	Yeah, it's "judge room." There is, of course, always room for the vote to take place a little later. You just have to let me know. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u114	I wouldn't like that, because this bill still has to go to the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u115	It could be two days, so that's not so bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u116	"It was on last year's list," Mr Omtzigt calls. Ladida! Ahum!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u117	Good legislation must also be a matter of concern to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u118	Oh, yeah. That's true, Mr. Chairman. I come to the amendment to item No. 12, which is also about expecting the pension to be reached should remain on the UPO. I do not recommend that amendment, because I have deliberately chosen to give the UPO a different function: an instrument that looks back on the past and indicates the annual state of the pension that has been built up. Research shows that participants want an overall overview of their future pension income. They get that overall overview through the pension register, not through the UPO. I therefore advise against the amendment. I come to the amendment to item No. 17. This is not the case with the amendment on item No. 13.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u119	The amendment in part No. 13 is the amendment to item No. 17 years old. The amendment in part No. 14 has remained unchanged. You have just got the amendment to item No. 13... no, you just got the amendment to part No. I've had 12 of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u120	It is another amendment by Mr Krol. It also aims to ensure that the statutory pension is paid to the UPO, with reference to the model yield used and the interest rate used in the premium agreements. I would also advise against that amendment. I am actually doing so for the same reasons as those I mentioned in response to the previous amendment. I come to the amendment to item No. 14, also from the 50PLUS fraction. It concerns the inclusion of annuities in the pension register. I have already mentioned this in reply to questions from Mrs Vermeij and others. I do not recommend the amendment because it would require a very substantial extension of the pension register in the short term. Currently pension funds, insurers and contribution pension institutions are affiliated to the pension register. They should do it very quickly. We can't do that in the short term. I think it is important to address the extension of the register step by step and in close consultation with the Board of the Pension Register Foundation. As I promised to the Chamber, I would like to investigate this and achieve it in the long term. But I don't want to settle it already in this law. I come to the amendment to item No. 15 of the PVV. This changes the Netherlands Bank's ability to publish information on the financial situation of pension funds into an obligation. I do not recommend the amendment because I have deliberately opted for the possibility for the Netherlands Bank to publish statistical data on individual pension funds. I didn't choose a legal obligation. A possibility to publish gives the Dutch Bank the opportunity to choose whether or not to publish certain data. These data must, of course, be completely correct. So I think it shouldn't be an obligation. Then there is the amendment to item No. 18 of the CDA. That's about the message box, if I may put it that way. This amendment obliges pension administrators to send the information via a secure and centrally managed message box when sending pension information to a participant, a former participant or a former partner or pensioner. This will ensure that pension documents from which important rights are derived are kept for a long time in a secure and independent environment. I reject this amendment because it requires a major investment in a new vehicle while alternatives are currently available. I would like to draw your attention to the own message boxes of some pension administrators. I don't want to ban them from using this. Furthermore, there is of course the messagingbox of mijnoverheid.nl. I think that is enough, because that message box is already working properly. The introduction of a mandatory extra message box requires unnecessary investment while there is already a good alternative.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u121	That would therefore discourage the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u122	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u123	Neither is mandatory. If you don't use mygovernment.nl for a year, it will expire. I gave the example of an old, wrong e-mail address. How can we ensure that a participant has the right to recover all his old pension statements, from which he must derive important rights, even 10 or 20 years after the date?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u124	Pensioners can connect their information to mygovernment.nl. That could be a passable road.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u125	The Secretary of State uses the word "can"; it is not mandatory. That box will expire if you don't use it for a year. If it closes, you'll lose all your information. That doesn't give the participant any rights. In my term, I outlined the example that the pension practitioners of today are completely different pension practitioners than 50 years ago. Except for the ABP, because at least you know where to go; then there is no problem. With many other performers it is indeed a problem if you try 30 years later to find out what happened to the rights. Isn't it wise to solve that now? Why is there such an objection to storing those messages digitally?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u126	The amendment states that there can now be no automatic authorisation for third parties. That is true, but it is technically possible and feasible in the relatively short term to set up an authorisation functionality for pensions if the Court so requests. So if the amendment could be read in this way, I can imagine something. But I think it's way too far to set up a very separate pension box for everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u127	I still don't hear the answer to one of the two central questions I asked in my term: how can I get an overview twenty years later of the contributions to employers' and employees' contributions of €3,000, €4,000 or €5,000 per year, even if an e-mail has been sent wrongly? I don't have that overview anymore. Either I lost my shoebox, or I cleaned everything up like Mrs. Vermeij, or I'm moving; it doesn't matter. The overview is not there and I want to get it again. There's been a merger and I don't know where to start. That's what the e-mails I'm getting right now are about. How does the Secretary of State intend to ensure that people can exercise the right of ownership of pensions and simply receive their pensions?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u128	Every year, when you enter UPO, you get an overview of the pension you are building with your current employer, but on mypensionoverzicht.nl you also get insight into what you have already built up with other employers. So there is that insight. That will only be improved by this legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u129	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u130	Finally, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u131	That's not legally enforceable, and if it's incomplete, it won't do you any good. That's exactly why I'm asking for this. There's that hole. If it's not there, you don't see it. And if it's in there, you can't always derive rights from it. That is why it is important that you can get the original UPO back. It's the only thing you can derive any right from.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u132	I think it's getting a little semantic, but with this bill, we're actually trying to get the UPO to indicate very clearly what you're building with your current employer, while on the basis of the UPO on mypensionoverzicht.nl you can look very carefully at what else you've built up. This means that you can of course go back to previous pension practitioners. It also says what you built on the basis of your AOW and what you could save on third pillar products, if the Chamber thinks that is a good idea. I just said that we also think it's important to look into that carefully. So you have an all-over picture.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u133	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u134	Mr President, I think I have come to the end of my first term, because I have now told my findings of all the amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u135	I think the Chamber feels a little differently about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u136	Okay!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u137	Mr Van Weyenberg has a question, and Mr Ulenbelt also has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u138	I had asked a question about making the implementation costs public. Unless I missed it, that question hasn't been answered yet. This question was also asked by colleagues Omtzigt and Krol. This law is intended to enter into force on 1 July. Then funds have to report on the implementation costs. However, there is still talk about the form in which this should be done and about comparability. I will repeat my first-term question. Can the Secretary of State guarantee that a uniform calculation method is in place at that time, so that people know very well the implementation costs and can compare them with those of other funds?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u139	I will return to the question of uniform implementation costs in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u140	That's good. The reason I am slightly hesitant is that I am considering tabling a motion on this matter. But I'll wait for the answer in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u141	You can always file that motion and withdraw it if the answer is satisfactory. That's a road.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u142	Yes, because I can then, if necessary, leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u143	It's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u144	I have three further questions to which I have not heard an answer. The first was about the ICT aspects of the whole operation. The second question was about the ABP. The Secretary of State didn't say anything about that. My request is to have the supervisor take a look at that. I would also ask the Secretary of State to make an effort not to communicate but to compensate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u145	The ICT aspects are implicitly part of this legislative proposal, in the sense that, together with the field, the funds and insurers, we have looked very closely at what this means in terms of ICT aspects. With the way in which we intend to introduce things from 1 July 2015, we aim to make these aspects very passable. In this respect it is indeed the field, but that is clear, if I may put it that way. Mr Ulenbelt's second question was raised yesterday afternoon during oral Question Time. At that time I said that the ABP should look at how it deals with its participants. If in communication with the participants this would not have gone well, I'm very nicely expressing myself.These participants can always go to the AFM to address this. I have said a few things about this in my first term too, but not so much on the basis of the ABP as on all the funds and insurers it could concern. We also discussed compensation yesterday, which was the subject of Mr Ulenbelt's next question. The question of compensation lies not with the government, but with the ABP. If I have understood the ABP correctly, it will not recover what was transferred in January.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u146	I will return to the ABP in second term. Now I'm gonna go into the ICT. An amendment has been made and for implementing technical reasons this is introduced by Royal Decree. This means that it is loosened from the date of July 1. I've had the honour to be on the temporary committee ICT and then I've been given the mission to watch for ICT in the government. The Secretary of State is very vague. Can it guarantee that ICT is going well or that the two amounts, if there are problems, will not be on the prognosis?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u147	We are all very careful to build up the pension register step by step. This certainly applies to those responsible for the pension register, so the foundation. I have just said, in reply to Mr Van Weyenberg's question, that I have confidence in governance, because I see that the register is doing this very accurately and carefully. That is why I want to make sure that we say overnight: then we will do it immediately and without delay with regard to the third pillar products. I therefore reject the Krol amendment. This would, after all, create a great deal of complexity in ICT technology. We really need to ensure that we get there properly, so that we do not have to deal with this problem. I agree with Mr Ulenbelt that this must be prevented.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u148	I had asked a question about the insured schemes and the example of cash register, which should be counted with a compulsory interest rate of 4%. How does the proposal deal with this? Is this still working?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u149	If real interest rates differ significantly from the interest rates used by insurers during the build-up phase, this leads to too high pension expectations. That is what the contribution was about in Kassa, and that is what Mrs Lodders is referring to. The lower interest rate shall be used for the conversion to annuities. We have talked about this many times. Insurers have therefore proposed a different calculation rate for the benefit phase instead of the 4% in the past. That is what Mrs Lodder's question was all about. Insurers will provide participants with additional information on the possible effects of low interest rates on pension benefits in the coming period.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u150	So I hear the Secretary of State say that the insured scheme, the pension expected on the date of retirement, must have a 4% return, while the current interest rate is significantly lower.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u151	I will come back to this in the second term, but if I am well informed, insurers have already proposed a different rate of calculation for the benefit phase.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u152	This has put an end to the government's first term. I suggest we proceed with the second term immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u153	Mr. Chairman. I shall begin with the last point on which I had an interrupting debate with the Secretary of State. The Secretary of State says there's another interest rate in the payout phase. I don't think that's what we're talking about. Communication on the expected pension now includes 4%. If that is a legal obligation, I ask the Secretary of State if it is necessary. Should we not use other interest rates to ensure that the final payment is more in line with expectations? If the Secretary of State is unable to respond now, I would like to come back to it later on the basis of a letter. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for replying. I have heard a number of commitments, but I lack a measurable ambition: when did this bill pass, when did this change succeed? 34% of people are actually going to study the information from pension funds. As far as I am concerned, the Secretary of State may state that the Pension Monitor 2016 will include the percentage of 50%. I will not hang her figuratively from that, but there must be an ambition that we want to go to together. The Secretary of State will come back to removing unnecessary instruments. I hope she wants to go through the dust comb. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Pension Communication Bill is a step forward in terms of communication and information to participants;]] [[Considers that it is important for completeness and comprehensibility to further improve information in the future;]] [[Calls on the Government to consider ways of harmonising in future the various information channels (such as the UPO, the pension register, the website of pension administrators and Pension 1-2-3) and to inform the Court of Justice of this by the end of this year;]] [[calls on the Government to add third-pillar products such as annuities to the pension register as soon as possible, to allow access for pensioners and to inform the Court of Justice of their progress by the end of the year,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Lodders, Mr Vermeij, Mr Van Weyenberg, Mr Krol, Mr Omtzigt and Mr Ulenbelt.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34008-19]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u154	So much for my second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u155	Mr. Chairman. I too would like to thank the Secretary of State for her first-term replies. I have five more points in which I would like to stand still. We are moving forward with this law, but for my group the final picture is very important: the pension register with all people's pension claims, including in the third pillar. That is why my group has co-signed Mrs Lodder's motion. On the cost of implementation, the Secretary of State said that she would come back to it, but that she looked forward to a motion. I like to pick up that glove. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that, when the law enters into force, the implementation costs of pension funds and pension insurers are not only disclosed, but also that one uniform calculation method is used to compare implementation costs,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Weyenberg, Mr Omtzigt and Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34008-20]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u156	I was pleased to hear the Secretary of State's positive response to the desire to make people more aware of the cost of retirement and the amount of money spent on it every year. Several colleagues, in particular Mrs Vermeij, have paid attention to this in their first term. I think this is really important, because you work a total of a day a week for your retirement. Employers pay a lot of money for that. Mrs Vermeij will be tabling a motion on this shortly on behalf of my group. It is important that information is really good. We must therefore provide information on the new communication rules. That may sound double-up, but it's definitely not. For example, people need to know why the UPO will look different. Mr Krol will shortly be tabling a motion on this subject which I have signed. The pension register now contains variants for pensions starting at the age of 65 or, for those for whom this is relevant, at the age of 67, but not yet the expected retirement age. Now it is clear that this is not 100% certain, but I think it is very important that people have this in mind, so that people can see this as a variant: what does this mean for pension payments? People can make such good decisions of their own. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the AOW age from 2024 onwards is linked to life expectancy for all born after 31 December 1956;]] [[Whereas it is important to provide insight into the expected AOW age in the pension register, in a way that the Social Insurance Bank already does on its website;]] [[calls on the Government, for people in the pension register to include a variant based on their expected AOW age and to inform the Chamber of 1 May 2015 about the implementation of this motion,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Vermeij. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34008-21]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u157	That's what I wanted to end my term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u158	Mr. Chairman. The whole discussion about communication has called politics on itself through all kinds of measures around retirement. No one's interested in how a power plant works except people who work there. The only thing people are interested in is that there's 220 volts on the socket so that everything works. In the Netherlands, this was also the case for pension funds for a very long time. Then all that changed, the crisis came and so on, and that's why we have this difficult thing now. I hope it all works out the way the Secretary of State has planned it and the Chamber sees it. A current communication problem really needs to be addressed. That is why I have a motion on the situation surrounding the ABP. This was indeed discussed yesterday in Question Time, but that is something other than a debate. So I'm taking the room here to file the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the ABP no longer provides additional AOW partner allowance to people who have ceased to be entitled to the AOW partner allowance since 1 January 2015;]] [[noting that this would cause some 20,000 pensioners at the ABP to face an unexpected reduction of 10% to 15%;]] [[calls on the Government to use its influence in the ABP to reverse or compensate for this unexpected discount,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ulenbelt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34008-22]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u159	It would be very nice if a debate on communication would lead to compensation where there is incomplete communication. I hope the Secretary of State picks up the glove and solves this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u160	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State for her answers to our questions, which indeed differed. The aim of all of us in the Chamber, whatever political direction, remains to make communication clearer and clearer, and to make it clear to people what they can find true. That is why I supported Mrs Lodder's motion to look at these channels of communication and to make the final objective clear. In that we all see a good future for mypensionoverzicht.nl, but not only after we started lean, mean and very firmly on that pensionpart. For this reason, I would like to thank the Secretary of State, who, learning from the past, is not immediately rushing into a huge and gigantic financial planning instrument and will look again at the AMvB, particularly at the relevant articles. The PvdA Group has another motion which deals with the way in which people are made aware of how much they are working, including for their pensions. It is true that there is an amount for this on the pay slip, but that is not all. The employer also pays to their pension. All those percentages are fluttering. I heard the Secretary of State when she made a commitment to this, but I would like to make it a little more explicit. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the "Pension in Clear Language" report contains a recommendation to give participants a better understanding of contributions paid;]] [[noting that the basic information on the pension scheme only includes the percentage of the contribution paid by the employee himself and the percentage of the contribution paid by the employer;]] [[considers that it is useful for pension awareness and understanding of pension formation if participants also know how much euro contribution the employer pays;]] [[calls on the Government to explore communication channels to provide employees with a better understanding of the absolute amount of pension contributions paid by the employer for them and to inform the Chamber before 1 July 2015,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Vermeij and Mr Van Weyenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34008-23]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u161	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State for the answers and many promises. As I heard only a vague commitment on the next point, I submit this motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas persons who are already retired from the law will not have access to the pension register and persons who are retired from the pension register after the effective date will have access to the pension register;]] [[calls on the government, all pensioners, now and in the future, to provide equal access to the pension register and the information contained therein,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34008-24]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u162	How far does Mr Krol intend to go? I'm asking this question because the pension register is supposed to give you insight into how much pension you get a month. This is usually quite clear for pensioners when looking at their monthly accounts. The bank statement already shows how much it is. Is it really necessary for all pensioners, even though they are 80 years old, and has Mr Krol already argued that they should be given the opportunity to get the overview on paper as soon as possible, or is an obligation to do so, as the Secretary of State says, not enough here?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u163	My intention is to make no distinction whatsoever between people who are already retired and who are still retired. The moment you tie a line to that, you're gonna have doubts. I would therefore prefer not to set a limit.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u164	What is the additional added value to include someone in the pension statement who has been retired for ten years, who is 75 years old and knows exactly how much pension he gets? What would be the punishment if the pension administrator didn't? I am only asking because Mr Krol is asking for an additional action from the pensioners for 3 million people. That'll be a million-dollar operation. I wonder whether the costs and benefits have been weighed up in this regard. It's sympathetic, but it costs a lot of money, while these people already get that monthly review, unlike the active ones.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u165	I understand the concern about the extra costs. I can share that concern, too. If I can get a clear answer, I would like to reconsider it, but I now think it would be unwise to divide between the people who are already retired and those who are still retired. The next motion is very important to my group. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Uniform Pension Statement (UPO) will in future reflect the pension that has been built up in the past by a pension administrator, and not the total amount of the expected pension income per pension date;]] [[considers that simpler communication through the UPO should not lead to incomplete communication and that essential, directly related pension information should remain available in one document in the future;]] [[invites the Government to provide, unchanged, the possibility to indicate on the UPO the expected pension income and/or pension capital per pension date, including interest information on contributions agreements,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34008-25]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u166	I welcome the Secretary of State's commitment to include annuities in the pension register. My amendment to item No. 14 I therefore hold. However, as support, I would like to table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the purpose of the pension register is, inter alia, to provide a comprehensive overview of all pension provisions;]] [[Whereas annuities are not included, while pension and annuities are very similar in terms of purpose, scope, product form, taxation and regulation both in the building-up and benefit stages;]] [[Whereas, moreover, hundreds of thousands of entrepreneurs and employees who have an annuities in addition to their pensions will not get a coherent picture through the pension register of their total retirement provision;]] [[asks the Government, in close consultation with relevant organisations, to include annuities in the pension register;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34008-26]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u167	Yeah, that's true. In this case, I shall withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u168	The Krol amendment (Doc. 14) has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u169	I have just tabled a motion in second term to extend mypensionoverzicht.nl, the pension register. That motion was also tabled by Mr Krol. It may be a rather nasty question, but I am now looking for the difference between my motion, which Mr Krol has also signed, and the motion he has just tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u170	That's a very good question. I suggest that we sit together for that in a moment. Then maybe we can make one motion. All right. Finally. Thank you for the commitment to comprehensive information on the new means of communication. However, I would like a little bit more and not only during the Pension3days. That is why I have tabled the next motion, which has been co-signed by Mr Van Weyenberg, Mr Omtzigt and Mr Ulenbelt and by Mrs Vermeij. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that this legislative proposal substantially alters pension communication;]] [[Whereas good prior explanation of the renewed pension communication will contribute to its success;]] [[calls on the government, as soon as possible and in good consultation with the pension sector, to provide comprehensive information on the new way of communicating on the pension,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Krol, Mr Van Weyenberg, Mr Omtzigt, Mr Ulenbelt and Mr Vermeij.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34008-27]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u171	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State for the clear explanation in response to most of the questions. There are still a few small ones open. The first is whether or not the annual UPO communicates about the entitlement to a survivor's pension and an invalidity pension. That must be clear, as far as the CDA group is concerned, and also whether that is on a risk basis or on a build-up basis, so that you know what you have or that your next of kin know what it means. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the commitment to identify liability: how far do you have to deviate from the UPO to have that liability? However, my group still has one point. The pension register is very cleverly set up as a separate foundation. If mistakes are made, there will be no liability. Of course, we hope that no mistakes will be made. They're working hard on it. But remember, when they're made, they can have very nasty, nasty consequences. The only thing you can derive from is such a UPO, but that UPO is not properly preserved. You could lose that. It is not required to be stored with MyGovernment. It can be sent to the wrong e-mail address. I am always talking about an overview that is worth thousands, if not tens of thousands, of euros to that person. With most pension funds, it's obvious: one phone call or maybe two phone calls, and you get it. It doesn't mean it's wrong. But especially if it's been a long time since... exporters exchange funds......................................................................................................................................................................... I miss the urgency with the Secretary of State to find a solution to that black hole. In the past we even had special foundations. I ask the Secretary of State to pay attention once again to this in her reply and, if necessary, to come back to the letter on liability, how, if the UPO has been lost or never arrived, you can get it back so that you know what you were entitled to. That is difficult enough for the past, but we can settle that well in the future. If the Secretary of State knows a method for dealing with what I intend to do with the amendment before Tuesday, but in a different way, then we are completely open to it. It can also be hung under the pension register, should that be the case. If with a pdf the old pension statements are underneath, we may also be a long way further. I don't care how it's arranged, as long as it's settled and if you can reach it. I wholeheartedly support the words of Mr Van Weyenberg, in particular, on the understanding of costs. Both pension funds and insurers really need a little bit of work to get that. There's been a nice hand-out, but it could be a bit better. A normo-treating conversation? I've heard some more terrifying examples than a normative conversation from the AFM.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u172	This brings to an end the second term on the part of the Chamber. The Secretary of State has indicated that he can respond immediately, but we are waiting for a moment for her to have all the motions tabled. There's a total of nine. We already have them all. They're coming. Apologies.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u173	Mr. Chairman. Once again, I thank the members of your Chamber. A limited number of questions have been asked and nine motions have been tabled. I think it's the most useful thing I'm gonna do with the motions. In the first motion, by Mrs Lodders c.s. in piece No. 19, the Government is invited to add third pillar products to the pension register as soon as possible, to allow access for pensioners and to inform the Court of Justice of progress by the end of the year. I'll leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. I have already said that I too think this is a good idea. I also note that Mr Krol has said his own in his second term and that there is an overlap. I'll get to that. I shall continue with the second motion, tabled by Mr Van Weyenberg, Mr Omtzigt and Mr Krol. This motion calls for a uniform calculation method to be used so that implementation costs can be compared. This is already the case, because Article 45a, which entered into force on 1 January, requires a pension fund to include information on implementation costs in the annual report. Articles 10a and 10b of the Implementing Decision specify exactly what is meant by implementation costs. Clarity has now been incorporated into the law. Does Mr Van Weyenberg still need his motion in this context?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u174	The picture I have is that there's still a lot going on in college. The goal is to raise awareness for that study. According to my information, that's still necessary. I am holding my motion for this moment and would like to put it to the vote. Perhaps I can have further contact with the Secretary of State about the wording if this would lead to a problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u175	Mr President, you will, of course, immediately ask me what my view of this motion is now. I think it would be wise if I had a little more discussion with the proposers before I gave my ultimate judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u176	Does this mean that you will give a written opinion on this before the vote?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u177	Sure. I now come to the motion on part No. 21 in which the government is asked to include a variant for people in the pension register based on their expected AOW age. I have already said in the first term that I find that very sympathetic. In the motion I am asked to inform the Chamber before 1 May of the execution of this motion. I leave the judgment to the Chamber. I need to be able to make it to May 1st to show you when this could happen. The fourth motion, tabled by Mr Ulenbelt, has already been the subject of many speeches. In this motion, he asked the government to use its influence in the ABP to undo or compensate for this unexpected discount. You won't be surprised that I'm deceiving this motion. It is not up to politics to have a value judgment on this. It is up to the social partners to find the solution. Then I come to the fifth motion, tabled by Mrs Vermeij and Mr Van Weyenberg, asking the government to explore communication channels to give employees more insight into the absolute amount of pension contributions paid by the employer for them, and to inform the Chamber before 1 July 2015. I had already promised this, so, of course, I leave the judgment to the Chamber. In the sixth motion, Mr Krol asked the government to offer all pensioners equal access to the pension register now and in the future. I said that I would like to see a slow growth of pensioners in the pension register. This motion makes that impossible. I therefore advise against this motion. Mr Krol asked the government in the seventh motion to provide unchanged the possibility to indicate on the UPO the expected pension income and/or pension capital per pension date, including interest information on contributions agreements. I also advise against this motion, because participants are not in favour of this. I don't think it's a good idea. In the motion in part No. 26 the government is asked to include an annuity in the pension register in close consultation with the organisations concerned. That's the overlap motion, if I may call her that. I'll leave it to the proposers to see how they deal with it. I shall leave the judgment on the motion for a resolution formally to the Chamber, but I think it is a little superfluous. In the motion-Krol c.s. in piece No. 27 The government is called upon to provide comprehensive information on the new way of communicating the pension as soon as possible and in good consultation with the pension sector. I can't wait to hear the verdict on this motion. I'll leave it to the Chamber. That's about the nine motions. That leaves me with a few questions. Mr Omtzig asked whether the UPO was communicating about the survivor's pension and related persons. The answer to that is yes. Mr Omtzigt also asked me to come back to the exchange of views we had here on the old UPOs, in the letter I have already promised. I would like to put a paragraph to that effect. I understand the point of attention. I told you, Columbus' egg isn't here yet. I find the amendment tabled by Mr Omtzigt really too far-reaching. I didn't recommend it. I understand he's wondering if there's any way to come up with something else. I'll try my brain on that, too. I'll see if there are any other questions I need to answer. There is another question from Mrs Lodder about the legal obligation of around 4%. I propose that I inform the Chamber in writing. I can tell you exactly what the state of affairs is now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u178	When are you gonna do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u179	Do you want me to do that this week?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u180	I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u181	Thank you for that. I had also challenged the Secretary of State with regard to ambition.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u182	Yes, the measurable ambition. Mrs. Lodders says it's 34% now. Of course, it would be wonderful if in three years' time, if we start evaluating, 50% of the Dutch wanted to gain this insight. That's what I think of her. She also said it's not something you have to draw all kinds of conclusions about. It is not for nothing that I say so generously yes to the communication of things. Almost the entire Chamber has also signed it. I hope that communication by all of us, and also by the pension world, will give the average Dutchman much more interest in building up his old age provision. In fact, I think that is a good example of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u183	I thank the Secretary of State for that. She just embraced a motion on the communication of this bill with both arms. I think there is a very important challenge for the pension sector itself, for the trade unions and for everyone involved in this to communicate. Then hopefully I will have the talk with the Secretary of State about the pension monitor in 2016. But again, there is also a responsibility for the pension sector itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u184	I can only fully confirm that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-7.u185	Vote on the motions tabled, the legislative proposal and the amendments will take place on Tuesday, 3 March. I understand that the Chamber will be informed in writing before then on two points.
