ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u1	The next item is the debate on the agenda for the European summit on 25 and 26 June 2015, and I understand the arrangements for this evening's debate on Greece. I would like to welcome all those present in the Chamber, particularly the Prime Minister. Ten speakers have come forward. This afternoon we laid down the speaking time in the order of business. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Koolmees of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u2	Mr. Chairman. I will indeed start with the news of the day: Greece. As Merkel noted: fortunately there are several days in one week. We seem to need them badly this week. I would also like to address four other points today: the Budget Summit, the Five President's Report, the European Agenda on Migration and Human Rights. I'll start with Greece. There seems to be movement on the side of Syria. There's a plan to talk about. After months of stalemate, Tsipras is getting stuffy. Was it Merkel's severe gaze, or indeed his own Greek people, the ordinary Greeks, who go on the streets with tens of thousands of protests before an agreement, but also the ordinary Greeks who go on the streets to pin? With billions at the same time, the banks are emptying out. The ECB continuously provides the Greek banks with new liquidity. Four times in six days, the Governing Council met to raise the emergency support ceiling time and time again. Optimistically speaking, an agreement is a little closer. Tomorrow, the Eurogroup will continue to discuss the Greek proposal, but we must also note that no progress has been made for a year. Where growth was initially expected in Greece, the continuing uncertainty smashed the recovery in the bud. The new proposal, at least what we have seen of it, with, in particular, additional burdens, will once again be a burden on the economy. What's the government's first analysis? How many degrees do you need to adjust? For years it was mantra: first implement, then pay out. Is there still time for that with one week to go until the end of the programme? Opposition parties Nea Dimokratia and PASOK seem to take on a constructive tone. They can help Tsipras to a majority in parliament. But even if there is an agreement this week, a real solution is still far away. How does the cabinet view the period after 30 June? Tsipras wants debt relief to be part of the deal. For that, perhaps something will be on the table tomorrow, or perhaps in the period after that. Can the Prime Minister tell us more about Mr Juncker's personal rescue? Where exactly did his 35 billion come from? There's more on the agenda for the summit. There's plenty to talk about and do. That is why my group is surprised that the cabinet is taking so little action at European level. I shall begin with the European budget. Everyone wants to get rid of the opacity of European money and the fuss about the payments and the post-taxes. The Prime Minister himself called this a bizarre process. The Chamber instructed the cabinet by motion to organise a budget freeze on a radical reform of the EU budget during the Dutch presidency. Former Minister Timmermans embraced this D66 proposal and called it a good idea to make EU budget reform a priority. Can the Prime Minister explain to me why a note is now coming to the Chamber with procedural arguments not to take advantage of this opportunity? D66 wants a transparent European budget that is financed directly, so that it is clear where the money comes from and goes. In this way, the European taxpayer will gain value for his money and will no longer be faced with surprises, such as post-taxation. It is about citizens' confidence in Europe. I thought the cabinet shared that ambition, but it can't get rid of a seminar. Why not take this opportunity to organise a summit at the highest level? Then I'll come to the Five President's Report. At the end of the day, one more president was added: Mr Schulz. It is good that there is a vision from Europe and that there is something concrete here. The report looks at first sight positive. My group is pleased that it is recognised that monetary union only goes hand in hand with political union. But this is not the end of the coin union. How is it ensured that we do not create an extra undemocratic body again? Can it be assumed that it will have a Community structure within the European Treaties with full democratic control and judicial review? We welcome the fact that the Minister for Finance, as President of the Eurogroup, has contributed to this report. My group is curious about the appreciation of the Prime Minister. I'd like a response. Then I come to the human rights problem. While much has been said recently about monetary union, we must not forget that we are also a union of values. This is often far from self-evident within our Union, as Hungary has unfortunately shown many times in recent times. That is why I am pleased that the European Parliament has embraced my colleague Sophie in 't Veld's plan: an annual human rights check to strengthen fundamental rights, the rule of law and democracy within the European Union. This plan will be developed into a legislative initiative proposal. Is the Prime Minister prepared to give full support to this initiative and to work hard on it with his European colleagues at the European Summit? Since the publication of the European Agenda on Migration last May, the Chamber has been asking for clarification on the government's position on this matter. What has been the Dutch commitment to the JHA Council? Has the Secretary of State negotiated a different distribution key for relocation and resettlement? If so, what are the results of this? I'd like a response. Next, a comment on the European Union's military mission to undermine the business model of human traffickers. What is the status of obtaining a mandate from the UN Security Council? Does the Prime Minister consider that the actions of smugglers constitute a threat to international peace and security, as laid down in the UN Charter? Should the mandate be obtained, how will the further decision-making and parliamentary control be shaped? How does the Prime Minister see the further implementation of the migration agenda? What is the commitment of the Netherlands in terms of timeline for this implementation? I would also like to comment on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u3	Madam President. Two and a half years ago, the Christian Union published an independent study into the future of Greece within the euro area. The conclusion was that Greece and the other countries within the euro area cannot form an optimal currency union because the economies are too uneven for that. It is always faint to be right afterwards, but we are now two and a half years ahead and many loans and there is still no light for the Greeks at the end of the tunnel. Mass unemployment, a debt that can no longer be repaid and one summit after another that alienates Europeans rather than brings them closer together. It is beginning to become a tradition: first the pressure towards the summit greatly increased, and then to say that there will be no agreement, but that the next few days will really be crucial. In seven days, the loan programme will expire. In fact, the negotiations have already failed, because the Greeks will not be able to adopt legislation before then which opens the way for the release of the remaining EUR 7.2 billion. I ask the Prime Minister what was agreed with the Greeks yesterday. Where did the optimism of last night come from, after months of grumpy? The Greek Government has taken a big step in the area of early retirement and VAT, but the big question is what Prime Minister Tsipras wants back. It seems inevitable that there will be a form of debt relief or remission. Chancellor Merkel has already said that it does not rule out debt cancellation. What's that like in the Netherlands? The Prime Minister has previously ruled out debt forgiveness, but is he still doing this? Can this be part of a solution? The IMF has indicated that it is necessary to find debt cancellation. The cabinet has always said that participation by the IMF is a tough condition for the Netherlands. How does one relate to the other? Then there's a comment about the Five Presidents' Report. While the negotiations with the Greeks show that in practice existing agreements are not being complied with, a road map for EMU is being put in place in Brussels. The Van Rompuy report and the Commission's blueprint have been dusted off. Some elements have been removed, such as the Member State contracts and the Eurobonds, but the commitment remains: a further development towards a political union is inevitable. The cabinet has advocated the use, compliance and enforcement of the current rules rather than the framing of new regulations. Now I read in the report that the Commission is coming forward with new legislation within two years to build further the EMU building. What does the Cabinet think of this report? The letter we have read about it is quite non-binding and somewhat distant. How does the cabinet assess the country-specific recommendations, which can be very far-reaching, for example those on our pension system? How does the cabinet judge that bet? As far as the Christian Union Group is concerned, this calls for a firm political stance. Next, a comment on TTIP. It remains unclear how this will be designed, but it is also not clear what economic profits and job gains will be for the Netherlands and the European Union. It is specifically a matter of dispute resolution. That's a very tricky point. What can we do with the European Commissioner's promise that ISDS will be replaced by a permanent arbitration court in the long term? This means that exclusive legal protection of multinationals outside national law is still being taken into account. What is the relationship between this and arrived chamber motions on that point, which state that dispute resolution in TTIP should not prejudice our national legal system? As regards migration, it has become known that EU Foreign Ministers have reached agreement on a military mission in the Mediterranean. I assume that we will follow an Article 100 procedure for this and that this letter will therefore be sent to the Chamber. I would like to point out that for the Christian Union Group it is important that networks of smugglers are mapped out, but that this is not the same as, for example, destroying fishing boats on the coast, because that goes much further. I hope that there will be room for helping refugees living on the Mediterranean Sea, and that there will still be room for that in that mission too. In asking form, I will present this to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u4	Mr. Chairman. As far as Greece is concerned, we're running from deadline to deadline. If you keep doing that long enough, it's gonna be a dead end. In the end, we have to find a real solution. That is also one of the conditions that I set two years ago. If you come up with a solution, it must be long-lasting as well. That was one of the reasons why we were against it at the time. The other reason was that there was no write-off on private debts. The charges were not placed with the banks. I am therefore curious to hear the Prime Minister's reaction to the fact that 90% of the money has not come to the public sector, but to the banks. Isn't it a myth to say that we helped the Greeks and not our own banks? I have a few other myths I would like to present to the Prime Minister. What is his reaction to the myth that the Greeks are lazy and spoiled? According to OECD statistics, the Greeks work most weeks a year. Didn't wages fall by 37% there? What is true of the myth that the Greeks do nothing? They wouldn't come up with any suggestions. However, I regularly see lists of proposals coming along. You can't like them, but they come up with proposals. They've completed the biggest austerity operation. Let us not forget that this also finally offers an opportunity to tackle corruption and tax avoidance. That has been forgotten in recent years by the previous cabinet. This will give you that chance. They go very far, we do not know how far, because we do not yet know the agreement on pensions. They've already fallen 40% to 50%. Does the Prime Minister recognize that? What proposals by the Greek Government is the Prime Minister enthusiastic about? The last myth is that the Greeks would owe everything to themselves and that we would not be blamed for anything. At least the IMF does self-reflection. That was said in 2013: we did indeed act wrong and the remedy was worse than the ailment. For five years, the troika's policy has been dictated and more cuts have had to be made. The removal of workers' rights was wrapped in the disguised denominator "reform." We have seen what this policy has led to: a country that has been shamelessly cut back, a Greece that is much worse for it under troika policy. The economy has shrunk by a quarter. Youth unemployment is high. One in two young people is unemployed and many young people are now seeking refuge abroad. I just want to know from the Prime Minister whether he has any kind of self-reflection and what we have done wrong on our part. He points a lot to the Greeks, but does he think we've been hanging out with the Greeks in recent years? The question then, of course, is how to proceed. There's probably an agreement. We don't know yet, so we'll wait and see. The question is, of course, what kind of agreement? If there is no agreement, it seems clear to me that European cooperation has failed. If there is an agreement, I want to know what we have done on our side. Is it a lasting agreement? Does it offer a longer-term perspective to the Greeks? In the end, that's what's best for ourselves. A thriving Greece is best for Europe, for the Greeks and for us. Then I'll come to the Five Presidents' Report. They're five presidents by now. I would like to say a few words about that first. Their starting point is even more Europe. We have seen in recent years that all the countries of the European Union have been one of the problems with Greece, and that has also been one of the problems with Greece. Isn't that wrong with diversity? From Greece you can try to make a Germany, but Greece is not Germany and vice versa. On the contrary, the acceptance of European cooperation is falling because of the fierce attempts to do everything in a straightjacket. Instead of increasing sovereignty for the countries, the five governors want to make Europe a fiscal union as soon as possible. It strengthens Member States' commitment to implementing reforms, legal reforms. More power will lie with European institutions. In the long run, there would even be a European treasury, a eurozone coffin. Sailing detail is that the report was prepared at the request of Mario Draghi. It is not at all the result of the shared wish of the Member States. Isn't it unusual that that comes first from the President of the ECB? What does that even say about the report? How does this relate to the vision of the cabinet? This earlier indicated that it was mainly intended to exhaust the existing instruments and not to impose new EU institutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u5	I understand that Mr Merkies as an honorary member of Syria is very concerned with the Greeks. I understand. However, what is the solution of the SP for Greece? Do you just have to muddle it? You want us to take the blame off him? What is the ideal solution for this honorary member of Syria?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u6	I'm not from Syria. I'm from the SP. However, I do think that the Greeks have elected a representative of the people, and that is what you are dealing with. They have chosen a new direction. Surely you cannot tell the Greeks to do exactly what they did in the previous period? Under Samaras' rule, we also had quite a bit of corruption. Are you one of Samaras' friends? Tell me which party you're in Greece for. Surely you cannot tell Greece that it must pursue exactly the same policy as it used to? Greece has indeed chosen a new direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u7	Mr Van Dijck, we're doing two-way interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u8	That's fine. I asked what the solution is for the SP. Syriza's going another way now. She has to know that, but isn't it much better for Greece to say goodbye to the euro and return to economic growth with the drachma? Greece can have the drachma devalued. This makes it interesting for investors and cheap for tourists. Greece can keep the millstone of the euro around its neck, but does this not offer much more perspective?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u9	Mr Van Dijck knows that we were initially not in favour of the euro. We do have the euro now. If the drachma was already there, you'd have a different story. If you switch now to the drachma, it will cause a great disaster. This is mainly affecting the poorest people. Mr Van Dijck says he wants to see something about the debts. Does he really think he's gonna see any of it at the time? These debts are then still in euros, while the Greeks have to earn their euros in drachmas. I don't think he'll see any of it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u10	Mr Van Bommel, also from the SP Group, said earlier that it would not be a disaster if Greece left the euro. What has made the SP fraction of insight change? Why wasn't it a disaster then and would it be a disaster now?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u11	I think it would be a big problem. We say it is up to the country itself to choose. That's the difference. So we are not saying, as the Christian Union says: throw Greece out. That is not possible, because that is the way we agreed. It is up to the Greeks themselves to choose to leave the euro. We can't like that, but that's also democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u12	The Christian Union Group has never said that you can throw someone out of the euro. We have said that it would be better for the Greeks to have a future outside the euro area. In response to an interruption by the PVV Group, I just heard you say that we would never get our money back and that it would be a disaster. Earlier, however, a spokesperson from the SP Group said it would not be a disaster. Something's changed, hasn't it? I don't understand what's changed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u13	I believe that we have always been very consistent, more consistent than the Christian Union. For example, we have been from the beginning for a debt write-off on private debts. The Christian Union was also in favour of it over time, but not at first. I believe that we have followed a long and consistent line in this respect. But I do think that what the Christian Union MP is saying is what he is calling it now, but I have heard him say it a little louder too, with the aim of 'get them out of the euro, they will have drachmas and in drachmas they will certainly not earn back that money to pay back their debts'.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u14	At the risk that Mr Merkies will now tell me what the PvdA thinks, I ask him, I have also followed the debates with Mr Van Bommel who really had a different opinion at the time why he is now in a different position and says that Greece should not just leave. Mr Van Bommel has made it quite clear here several times that this would be a good solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u15	I can tell you what the position of the SP is. The position of the SP is that the Greeks are themselves concerned about whether they are going out of the euro or not. Most Greeks are not in favour of that. I also think it will be problematic. In the long run, it would help you, but I'm really talking about the long term. The problem is that in the time before that, and I think we have the same opinion on this, there will be quite a few disasters in the country. Yeah, I think so. And especially the poorest people will suffer from this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u16	I think we can conclude briefly that the position of the SP has changed since the elections in Greece.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u17	I don't think so. I'll continue with the Five Presidents' Report. I'm surprised this came at Draghi's request. Why is Draghi leading that? Is it not more sensible to turn the European Heads of State or Government over, also in view of the fact that the report recognises that governments and parliaments should be given more control over the future of the euro area? I have specific questions about a number of aspects of the report. First of all about the stability function mentioned in it. In particular, it describes what it is not. The stability function is not a permanent transfer mechanism and is not an instrument for crisis management. Then what is this function? Is this function a rigged version of the Juncker Fund? Which institutions have a say in the establishment and functioning of the mechanism? Is this not just a disguised attempt to re-introduce a euro area budget? I would also, of course, like to know what the Minister's view is on the possible euro area budget. Then there is the budgetary council, which is given an advisory role. The need for this council is not clear to me at all. There is already a great deal of control by European entities over national budgets. Such a council would further reinforce that trend. We already have a budget commissioner. How do they relate to each other? How does the government view this budgetary council and what purpose does it serve? What, according to the government, is the desirable goal? The report recommends that competitive authorities be set up to check whether wage developments are in line with productivity, also in comparison with other countries. This is insane and unnecessary, isn't it? We already have national statistical offices monitoring macroeconomic developments and in the Netherlands the social partners are dealing with wages. Does the Prime Minister agree with me? I'd like a clear answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u18	Mr. Chairman. It is clear that the S of the SP stands for Syria today. Greece: I hardly get a word about it, because I have been fighting against Greece's policy for five years. This Greek soap opera has been running since May 2010. For over five years. For five years, the Greeks have been promising everything but nothing happens. For five years we have been fooling ourselves and for five years Brussels has been trying to put out the fire with billions of our euros. It is all or nothing, the euro will and must be saved. "Whatever it takes," chanted Draghi. Mrs Merkel said the euro is irreversible. And it may cost. The institutions pumped 250 billion into that country and the ECB is now holding up the Greek banks. While the Greeks are taking away all their savings, we have been able to see that the ECB can supplement these deficits. In the meantime, the banks have already received liquidity support of 90 billion. At the beginning of this year, this was still 30 billion. The Greeks have taken 50 billion from their savings account. How long does the ECB intend to go through with this? Is this not contrary to the ECB's mandate? Isn't this just an extra package of support of 90 billion? Money we lost, too. First 250 billion in emergency aid and now 90 billion from the ECB. Almost 350 billion. And yet it's not enough. We're out of money. Talk about bottomless wells. Of course there will be another agreement on Thursday. Of course, they promise everything again. Of course, they're going to do something about early retirement; they've been promising that for five years. One in six Greeks retires at 50. Who doesn't want that? Of course, they will increase the VAT, after they have first reduced it to 13% for the catering industry. They're gonna tax rich people, they promise. But the rich in Greece don't pay taxes, everyone knows that. Soon the can will be kicked again a few months. In September we stand here again and talk about a third support package. And it's been like this for years. The Greeks just got us in the shit and they know it. The Heads of Government are being openly blackmailed and scoffed. If Greece falls, the euro falls and Spain and Italy fall, they threaten. They even threaten to send jihadists to Berlin. They're looking for support from Putin. They demand over and over debt cancellation and deferment of payment. They call it the IMF, which is trying to help them, even a criminal organization. The ECB is unreliable, the eurogroup is a strange, indecisive club, Merkel is politically weak and other countries are just ordinary sadists. That is Greece, that is the country that we are trying to help with billions; and despite everything, the soft European healers continue to pour money into it. There are 16 billion from the IMF fund, 7.2 billion from the emergency fund and 10.9 billion from the emergency fund are still available for the banks. The Commission, in Mr Juncker's person, is now sharing a gift from Mr Koolmees, who referred to this by saying to Greece: if you sign the cross, we will give you another 35 billion bonus. With what mandate does the European Commission do this? The Greeks will have to repay nearly 14 billion this year. They don't have that money. At the same time, the Greeks spend three quarters of their budget on civil servants' salaries and pensions. Three quarters of their budget goes into that. Half of Greece is a civil servant or retired! They refuse to cut down on pensions. 16% of GDP, or 18 billion, goes to pensions. The Greeks refuse to fire officials, although five years ago it was agreed that 250 000 officials would be sent home. The Greeks have the largest number of officials per capita in the world. However, they have hired officials instead of firing them. They refuse to privatise, they refuse to pay taxes, and that goes against all agreements. The other euro area countries can supplement deficits, relieve debts and pay civil servants' salaries. How much longer does this Prime Minister intend to keep doing this? Deliver the Greeks from the euro and deliver us from the Greeks. This soap opera has gone on long enough. A small country that is less than 1.8% of the European economy has been holding us hostage for years now. This just has to stop. The longer one waits, the higher the bill gets. If the Greeks do not want to pay taxes, or if the Greeks want to retire by the age of 50, then they have to know for themselves, but not at our expense.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u19	Mr. Chairman. Tonight there is a lot of attention for Greece. That makes sense, because that is what the EU summit will be about to a large extent. It is important that we realise that the EU summit will also be about European migration policy. That's why I'd like to start with that. Migration policy is under pressure from the many people in the world who are leaving home for a safer future in Europe. The answer seems very simple: refugees must be distributed fairly among the Member States of the European Union. However, that simple answer requires clarity and European solidarity. All countries seem to be trapped in their national interests, as if the humanitarian duty to provide shelter for vulnerable refugees is appropriate for shifting responsibility or sometimes even for ordinary cow trafficking. GroenLinks asked the Prime Minister earlier to show ambition and, if necessary, to take a leading role if some Member States do not want to participate in the European Commission's proposals. I would like to repeat that appeal to the Prime Minister here. What will he do to convince other EU Member States to participate in the European Commission's plans? I would like to hear specific points of action from the Prime Minister. Is the Cabinet prepared to agree that it will voluntarily contribute to the resettlement key by inviting 732 new refugees through the UNHCR programme this year? The situation with Greece is clear for GroenLinks. It's an illusion that all the borrowed money comes back. Here too, the blinders of national interest stand in the way of a logical solution. There must be partial debt restructuring for Greece. That must be because this is solidarity, because together we are one Union, which cannot abandon Member States without having consequences for everyone. Is it really worth putting a country which has lost a quarter of its prosperity since the crisis even further into trouble? Do we not have enough wealth to be able to stretch over our hearts by hand? Those who reason logically understand that you will lose even more money if you push Greece out of the euro area or let it go bankrupt, not to mention the geopolitical instability that this would cause in the Balkans and the consequences for the stability of the euro. I understand that it is quite possible that another temporary solution will emerge from the EU summit, which will move the hot potato forward to autumn. Is that right? When will Greece then have to repay debts again and what amount is this? The question is, above all, what are we going to do about it? Can the Prime Minister promise that he will commit himself to a structural and final solution? Does the cabinet also see room for debt relief or forgiveness? The continuing uncertainty is not only bad for people in Greece, but also for the European economy as a whole. Can the Prime Minister also comment on the Dutch position on Juncker's proposals to strengthen the euro area? What steps should the EU take, according to the Netherlands, to prevent Greek tragedies in the future? A real European Union only works if we can look beyond our national interests and dare to think in the interests of the whole Union. This awareness, together with a renewed sense of solidarity, should be the outcome of this EU summit. The Greeks, the refugees, but above all the European Union itself, have been the most helped.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u20	Mr. Chairman. Soft healers make stinky wounds. That is an ancient Dutch proverb that has unfortunately never been heard of in Brussels. How long will we continue to negotiate with the cheating, glorified squatter gang from Athens? When will the Greek drama come to an end? Again time is bought, again there is no structural solution and again we continue to muddy. The Netherlands wrote a check for Greece of 12 billion and also guarantees another 6 billion. That is more than €1,000 per Dutchman. The same amount was promised by you, Prime Minister Rutte, not to the Greeks but to the working Netherlands, but that money flows back to southern Europe. Let's stop fooling each other. Everyone knows what needs to be done. The solution is simple. Greece must leave the euro area as soon as possible. Of course, corruption and fraudulent countries should never have joined the euro. Unfortunately, we are dealing with an EU elite who wants to keep Greece in any way. Greece's failure shows its own failure, and that must of course never happen. That is why the interests of Northern European taxpayers have for many years been subordinated to the failed euro experiment. At the end of the month, more than 7 billion will be transferred to Greece. The end of all misery is far from in sight. A new integration plan by Eurobobos Juncker, Tusk, Draghi, Schulz and Dijsselbloem now requires Member States to give up even more sovereignty to save the euro area. We call on the cabinet to strongly distance itself from this extra European summit and to put it on a Greek farewell. The more poor countries leave the euro, the better. The European Union must be dismantled as soon as possible. Hopefully a Grexit is a first step to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u21	Mr. Chairman. The European Council on Thursday and Friday has a full agenda, but, as most colleagues have said, will undoubtedly be dominated by Greece. That is what I would like to talk about today. There are also other issues on the agenda that are very important for the Labour Party, such as migration, the common security and defence policy, the Five Presidents' report and also the UK. These issues explain why the PvdA attaches such importance to a Europe that offers security and that connects it, a Europe that looks more closely at social policy and employment. Our fundamental rights and freedoms are essential for this. They must be respected and respected in all Member States. The PvdA is committed to ensuring that the Netherlands keeps these rights, employment, security and destiny links on the agenda throughout Europe. I'll start with Greece. Looks like we've been taking steps on Monday. That certainly does not reassure us, but it is very important that these steps are taken, and will continue tomorrow. As far as the PvdA is concerned, it is not just a matter of technical steps, but also of the political will of all players, the Greeks and the others, to get out. The starting point of the PvdA remains that we are looking for a solution whereby Greece remains within the EU and the euro area. Like other Member States, I call Cyprus and Ireland, Greece must keep promises. The country has certainly not done any service to this process in recent months and should be more professional and more constructive. It'd be nice if that turned out to be real this week. It is good that Greece wants to do more to combat tax evasion and tackle corruption and fraud. The package can take into account the economic and social changes that Greece has experienced in the past period. As far as the PvdA is concerned, a package is envisaged to allow Greece to repay the account. An unstable Greece, flooded by migrants and refugees, bordering the already imploding Middle East and the Balkans, as Mr Voortman said, could become a humanitarian disaster for the Greek population. This would be a very bad solution for the stability of the European Union as a whole. We ask the government whether it really is the commitment to get out, whether the political will to do so actually exists, at least with this government, but also with the other Member States. No gifts, but no political experiments with an EU country that is already on its back. I come to the subject of migration. The European Commission's migration plan has been discussed here a number of times. Unfortunately, the debate is always focusing on the number of people who should be eligible for resettlement or relocation in the EU and on how we should distribute the burden. It almost seems that we are losing sight of the fact that war, oppression and poverty at the borders of Europe are causing huge flows of refugees and migrants and a human tragedy in the Mediterranean. Yesterday, the President of Malta spoke for the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Malta is a country with a very high migratory pressure, yet it also highlighted the other side of migration. She said that helping migrants should not be seen as burden-sharing, but as sharing opportunities, which can have a positive impact on the declining labour force in Europe. She literally said that migrants can become an asset to our economies. We must not look away or become accustomed to humanitarian dramas. The Commission's plan is an important step forward in addressing this problem. It contains a number of points that the PvdA has been advocating for some time. Reception and resettlement in all European countries, looking at opportunities for legal migration and a robust humanitarian mission in the Mediterranean to save lives, more funding for reception in the region and a tough approach to smugglers. Like the government, the Commission also advocates broader partnerships with countries of migration, transit and origin. Partnerships that benefit countries of origin, transit and destination, but also migrants and refugees themselves. It is an integral agenda and not a choice menu. On the political starting point, the government hopes to reach agreement in the European Council. In the meantime, however, several countries are taking steps against the common agreement to take up refugees and provide protection. This does not, of course, bring a solution any closer. The solution lies in a truly joint and ambitious European agenda. We're at a crossroads. Are we going to opt for a policy of shearing, limiting, building fences and letting people suffer, or are we really going through the whole of the EU and taking responsibility? The PvdA strongly insists that the latter will also be the prime minister's commitment to the summit. We read that an EU/Africa summit on migration will be held in 2015. The PvdA is happy to receive the agenda and the government's commitment to this. For the PvdA this commitment will also have to be integrated. Reception in the EU, saving lives, tackling smugglers, funding for reception in the region, but also strengthening foreign policies that contribute to the stability and development of the countries around the EU.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u22	Mrs Maij gave the Prime Minister two choices a while back, or a Europe with fences around it that wants to keep people out, or a Europe with an open mind. I would like to hear from Mrs Maij the following. The cabinet has said so far: we want to participate in the European Commission's distribution proposals in itself, but so must other countries. That's what keeps each other in the grip. Does Mrs Maij, like GroenLinks, think that the Netherlands should play a leading role and that the Netherlands should say: we really need to take steps in this? Does she agree that the Netherlands should not therefore wait and see what other countries are doing?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u23	Let me be clear that I see that there are indeed choices, but those are not my choices. I certainly do not propose two choices to the Prime Minister. That of the fences around it and shifting responsibility is not an option for the PvdA. We do see that some countries are going to take those steps. As I have just said in my speech, we also see that the debate is ultimately only about the flat redistribution of the number of people in Europe who are currently reporting in Italy and Greece and that should be redistributed to the other countries. I believe that the Netherlands should participate in this and should encourage as many other countries as possible, preferably all European Member States, to participate in it. However, it is not a choice menu. It's part of a very large package.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u24	I very much agree with that. Mrs Maij has just said what the other elements in that package are. However, the Dutch government is now saying in Europe: other countries must also participate and we want to participate if other countries are to participate. At that point, you're just waiting for each other. Should the Netherlands not play a leading role and ensure that other countries join? Otherwise, we'll just be waiting for each other, won't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u25	For example, I did not read the government's commitment to the migration summit. There was a very clear statement: other countries must also participate. It was not said, however, that only if all countries participate, the Netherlands will also take steps. The stakes were as many countries as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u26	Does that mean that the Labour Party is also in favour of accepting that distribution? Mrs Maij says it is about flat numbers, but does this mean that the Labour Party is in favour of accepting that distribution and that it is also in favour of the other countries in Europe?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u27	That almost seems to me to be asking for the familiar road. I hope that Mr Koolmees has heard the contribution of my colleague, Mr Kuik. Oh, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u28	It's not my turf, so I need to think a little bit longer now and then. I understand that the Group of the Party of Labour has voted against a number of motions in which this particular point was raised in the Chamber. Now I hear Mrs Maij say: we are in favour of this; we think that the Netherlands should also take a leading role. Can Mrs Maij explain why her party voted against these motions after all?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u29	I think it is very important that we achieve the goal and that we allow the government to make the commitment that has been agreed. I find the scent flag of the motion a little less important. In that debate, there was a very clear statement of the PvdA's commitment. My colleague, Mr Kuik, has certainly been clear about this. That is also what we asked the Prime Minister, I mean the Secretary of State for Security and Justice. I come to the common security and defence policy. The European Council is expected to commission a strategy for the revision of the Common Security and Defence Policy. This is necessary because of changes in the international playing field and its impact on the European Union. This is also closely linked to the previous issue. The PvdA supports the commitment to arrive soon, preferably early 2016, at a conclusion of a common vision. As far as the PvdA is concerned, we work together where we can and where we need it. You can do more and better. We agree with the efforts of the High Representative Mogherini. I'm gonna take a quick look at the Five Presidents' Report. First it was four presidents and then it was five. They are thinking about redesigning the governance of the euro area. Most of my colleagues have already referred to this. I thank the government for the first appreciation we received just before the debate. The report actually covers three phases. The first of these has actually been worked out fairly well, but it is also the only one that has been reasonably worked out and what we are doing at the moment. If I understand correctly, the stages must all be further developed afterwards. Let me indicate what the PvdA believes should be the main points for the subsequent phases. The agenda for better governance should focus on growth and jobs, employment. He shouldn't compromise our social security. Member States should continue to be able to make their own choices with regard to the social system, pension system, care and so on. In addition, the role and input of national parliaments will need to be much clearer. That is also an important point. Finally, I come to the UK. The UK is also on the Council's agenda, especially the UK's commitment to the referendum. What exactly is the British initiative? What exactly is being discussed? The PvdA shares the view previously expressed by the Cabinet at the General Affairs Council that the UK should remain in the Union. We also want a better Europe, like the UK, but not necessarily just a better Europe on the terms of the UK; we want a Union that works. How you get there, the opinions are different. We do not just want less Europe, borders close and free play in the internal market for multinationals and financial institutions. We also want a social Europe, a Europe that is recognised by citizens and that is for citizens. Is this also the commitment of the Dutch Government to the Council and, in particular, to this issue?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u30	According to the Five Presidents' Report, more attention should be paid to the implementation of country-specific recommendations. During the European Semester, issues such as national health, pension and social security reform should also be high on the agenda. What is the line when the PvdA Group says that countries should be able to decide for themselves and make their own choices in those very important areas? What is the line when it comes to country-specific recommendations and how far-reaching can they be?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u31	I believe that this is one of the issues that needs to be further developed. I think that I have made it quite clear that, as far as we are concerned, the Member States must continue to make those choices themselves, particularly with regard to the social system and for the Netherlands also with regard to our pension system.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u32	Even when it comes to country-specific recommendations, both preventive and corrective, can Brussels not prescribe what we are going to do about our pension system and what our social system should look like? Does the PvdA group say that Brussels should not be about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u33	As I said earlier, this subject is being further developed. We have clearly indicated what our commitment should be in this regard. I understand that there will be a first discussion in the European Council, if there is time left after Greece and other important issues have been discussed. I understand that it is a first step of five gentlemen and that we will eventually talk with many more people, men and, hopefully, women, about how we are going to fill that out.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u34	Madam President. I would like to raise three points: security, the British referendum and the Greek problem. Security will be an important issue at the forthcoming summit. There is a ring of instability around half the EU. In this light, the SGP is deeply concerned about the nuclear drum roll, which is now emerging from the west and east. This is the worst thing that can happen to the world. The exciting discussion also shows how complex the nuclear option is. If Ukraine had not abandoned its nuclear power at the time, Crimea might not have been invaded and there was now no battle in eastern Ukraine. This is, of course, speculative, but what consequences does the EU have for this development, even when it comes to its own nuclear umbrella? Is the Prime Minister prepared to raise this issue in the context of the discussion on the common security and defence policy? The second point is the British referendum. Britain's departure would be a tragedy for the EU. The position of the Netherlands on the British referendum is therefore still far too passive at the moment. This is not the time for a stiff upper lip. I have already said in a consultation with the Foreign Minister that the sentiment that lives among many English citizens is the same critical sentiment that we see among many Dutch people. The fact that the referendum is more than a purely English matter does not, in our view, make sufficient sense in the Minister's letter. The EU should be well aware of this sentiment and not pervaded once again. It is high time for powers to be brought back from the European spectrum to the national level and for Member States to have greater freedom of policy. In the future, the European Union will have to be much more service to the Member States and make greater efforts to justify its policies towards the citizens. Will the Prime Minister make an effort in this respect and thus help to shape and use the British referendum to influence European policy? The third point is Greece. In February we received a list of austerity proposals from the Greeks. The aid programme was subsequently extended for four months. Unfortunately, the Greek Government did not feel so committed to this list and the negotiations were back to square one. The Greeks then allowed deadline after deadline to expire without reaching an agreement. Money was occasionally scraped together, from local authorities, and the IMF's own emergency reserve was deployed. But, yeah, now the money's really up. Indeed, at the moment Greece is not part of the illustrious list of contributors to countries such as Zimbabwe, Zaire and Somalia. However, the time that Greece has bought with all kinds of delay tricks is almost up. The tension is increasing, because in a week's time Greece will have to repay 1.5 billion to the IMF and the support programme will also end. What happens if this date also passes? Indeed, Greece then qualifies as a defaulter. And then what? Six months ago Minister Dijsselbloem indicated that he did not want to think about a plan B, but in recent weeks this scenario has become much more real. Although? Suddenly yesterday there were radiant glances, broad smiles and optimistic messages: there were clues, it offered perspective and more of that kind of pep talk. There was a plan submitted by Greece. What is this optimism based on, however? If you open your heart, do you not think that this optimism is very similar to a glued-up big plastic smile? If an agreement is reached, the question remains whether it will provide a solution in the longer term. What is happening here is that repayment of debt is financed by borrowing amounts. Debt is therefore financed by debt. Longer-term imbalances remain. How are the underlying problems addressed? How can we not be back here in a few weeks, a few months, a few years or perhaps just one year, to debate Greece? I'd like to get a response to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u35	Mr. Chairman. Anyone looking at Europe at the beginning of this summer can't be very happy about that. In the south we have the problem of Greece and from that same south Europe is flooded with an almost unmanageable stream of migrants. In the east Putin threatens our security and in the west there is the threat of a Brexit. It's all files that cause great concern. First of all, let me talk about Greece. As far as Greece is concerned, little has actually changed in the week since the debate we had in the Chamber. Last week was that debate, in which the VVD has already clearly shown its commitment. It has actually been the same since the February agreement and it is also simple. If anything comes out, it must comply with the agreements made in that agreement: you must complete the second support programme and you may replace measures if they are equivalent and the troika approves them. While on Twitter and in the media we see almost minute-to-minute proposals coming along that may or may not be right, with all kinds of ideas that we can't do much with, only one thing has actually happened since last week: another seven days of precious time have passed. We do not yet know the Greeks' proposal and we are now waiting for the troika's opinion. In the meantime, the four presidents have arrived. They are now four and a half, even five members with their report on the future of the euro area. Other speakers have already referred to this. I think it was Mr Segers who said: it is certainly a special timing, because one is now making such a leap forward while one is still trying to make the current instruments in Greece work somewhat. As a father of little children, this reminds me a little of what I sometimes see at home. A child sometimes starts with a bit of Duplo, then it runs to the clay to finish a doll half finished and then it deals with the beads necklace. At the end of the day, nothing's finished, but it's a big mess in your living room. That is what we often see in Europe. You're not doing what you've already agreed. Then there is a huge leap forward, in which all kinds of new institutions are threatened with being rigged and new things are emerging. The VVD's commitment to this report is very simple: just do what we agreed on. The problem is not too little transfer of sovereignty, but the problem is that we do not keep the agreements we make with each other. I am also unclear as to what we are going to do about this report and what the European Council is going to do about it on Wednesday. As far as I am concerned, at least that second or third part of the report can be torn apart. The VVD doesn't need all those views. Those daydreams about further European integration from the second and third chapters of the report, the chapters that we have just put into the shredder, do not help with the other major care dossier, namely development in the United Kingdom. The VVD attaches great importance to the EU's membership of the British. We have a history to keep them alive. That is what we did in the Union at the time. As far as we are concerned, we also have a duty to keep them in mind and we have an important role to play in this. Let us look at this referendum as an opportunity. It is an opportunity for more market, less rules, more prosperity; on exactly the things that we have devised for Europe in terms of the VVD. We therefore expect an active and open attitude from the cabinet to work with the British. It is also appropriate to say that it would help if the British were to take a step forward in realising their plans, because much of what we see coming along are things with which you can agree in general terms. They say we want TTIP. We are in complete agreement with that, so we can deal with it in this way. But what more do we really want? I would also like to hear from the Prime Minister whether he expects to hear more from the United Kingdom in that sense. I come to the issue of migration. That is, I fear, also a dossier which will not help to achieve a desired result of a referendum in Britain. After all, we often see migratory flows going that way. At present, Dutch truck drivers are not only confronted in Calais, but already in Hoek van Holland with refugees who want to go to Great Britain. We see individual Member States building fences, stopping asylum procedures, putting people on the train undocumented, moving on into Europe. These developments threaten to put pressure on one of the foundations of the European Union, namely the free movement of persons, if we are not careful. We have to prevent that. This is prevented by tackling the problem at source: reception in the region. Asylum procedures must be established there. It is inconceivable that Europe or the Netherlands will be able to cope with the current enormous migratory flows, let alone those of the future. The last JHA Council discussed this issue. As far as I understand it, all the Member States have actually told us what they want, but not so much has happened. That is why I am asking the Prime Minister what is going to happen on this dossier at this European Council and in the coming weeks. After all, it plays especially in these summer months. I'm going to the eastern border of Europe. A glimpse this week in the Union was according to the VVD that Europe was able to raise together in extending sanctions against Russia. Apart from the decisions on sanctions, I say that unanimity with regard to Putin is incredibly important. The situation there remains very worrying. In itself, we welcome what is to be done at the forthcoming European summit. There is talk of further improvement of the common security and defence policy, a more comprehensive approach and the strategic agenda. I ask the Prime Minister how we will ensure that the pace is maintained and that it does not become an endless conference and consultation circus. After all, there is no waiting for us to meet at the eastern border. As far as I'm concerned, tempo is also needed with TTIP. This is also important in the context of the British referendum. The VVD considers TTIP crucial for the European Union to increase our prosperity and to give Dutch entrepreneurs the chance to sell their stuff in the huge US market. How does the Prime Minister see in this context the deferred vote in the European Parliament, but also the hiccup we have seen in the United States with regard to Obama's negotiating mandate? The VVD wants a Europe that creates prosperity and solves problems where Member States cannot do so on their own. A Europe that provides Dutch people with more money in their pockets by enabling free trade within and outside the Union and by keeping Member States in budgetary agreements. A Europe that protects the safety of Dutch people by making migration manageable and keeping Russia out of the door. If we are to convince the Dutch taxpayer that he is better off in the Union, the Union must, above all, deliver. That must be the constant commitment of this cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u36	As the last speaker in the first term of the Chamber, Mr Omtzigt has rushed to attend this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u37	Mr. Chairman. Indeed, I have just come back from Strasbourg, where some Greek colleagues wanted to say interesting things. Although Greece is not formally on the agenda, it will undoubtedly be a subject that will dominate this summit. I also have a number of questions on other subjects on the agenda. It is very difficult to give an opinion on an interim outcome of a negotiation of which we do not know all the ins and outs. That's not what the CDA's gonna do. On the basis of rumours in the corridors and a number of newspaper articles, we would like to give the government a number of directions. Greece's reform plan must be truly credible. There should be no negotiations leading to a new package in six months' time or a new renegotiation. This is not in Greece's interests, and certainly not in the interests of the rest of the Union. The Greek economy seems to have become a kind of short-term economy, because we do not know how long the current system will last. The CDA believes that no gifts can be given away, even if only because countries like Italy, Portugal and Ireland would be entitled to the same gift, actually with a bonus over it. They did comply with the agreements, and they did carry out the reforms. Then it will be priceless, especially if Italy is allowed to participate. Greece itself must take matters into its own hands or the Greeks themselves must want to strengthen their own institutions. Maybe I should say no more wanting to weaken. After all, the banking system there suffers enormously from the decisions taken by the government. Capital restrictions are becoming urgently needed. If 1 billion to 1.5 billion a day goes away and is stored in a foreign bank account, and if this is filled with aid from the ECB, it must be stopped. That aid amounts to nearly 100 billion in Target-2. That is an extra exposure on Greece and also a very large one. Does the government share the view that this support should be stopped? We are curious to see how Parliament in Greece is involved in establishing this plan. We ask this because, if the government agrees and the parliament does not, we do not yet have an agreement. How is this included in the package? We also received the Five President's Report. That is a hyper-ambitious report with great views, such as treaty changes, some kind of EFSF/ESM merger, words like "political union" and I can go on for a while. It is co-written by Minister Dijsselbloem, the only of the five presidents who also has a national role and function. We have just received a letter from the government which makes clear to the Chamber the provisional position of the government, but we would like to ask a number of questions about this. Firstly, is the input of eurogroup president Dijsselbloem aligned with the cabinet? Or were there actually two contributions: one of the eurogroup president, who is making an ambitious plan, and one of the Dutch government, which was also reasonably slowing down in view of the official input? When will we get a definitive cabinet position? When will the Chamber be informed? We appreciate the rapid appreciation we have received today from the cabinet. We can also agree with the fact that a cut is being made between the short and long term, and that the government is taking a little distance from the great vistas there, but when are we going to take a formal position on this? Thirdly, will we have a national debate on this type of report before we discuss it at European level? Otherwise, the last chapter of what is proposed there is better democratic control, a total farce. We are not going to discuss proposals here in 24 hours, let alone approve them, which de facto change the Dutch Constitution. I would like to receive a response and an assurance from the Prime Minister on this point. This is also a bit of a central concern at this European summit: you never know exactly when what will be discussed and when what will be decided. And when it's decided, it's decided and it's presented here as a fact. Above all, the clear democratic justification seems to slip away completely. That must not happen with this report. Then I come to migration and boat refugees. The CDA has already expressed its position on several occasions: an approach in the region and an equal distribution between European Member States. But people keep talking and I don't see any concrete action. This week, a sea operation has been launched to tackle smugglers, but this mission can only become effective and offensive if there is a UN mandate. For the CDA too, an important condition is to be able to intervene on land. What is the state of play on the UN mandate and how long will it take? What about the commitment to the reception of refugees by European countries? And, quite precisely, what exactly did the Hungarians say they're canceling? Are we now seeing the countries pulling out one by one? Then I would also like to have an intermediate position on this, so that we can take the stand again. Then I'll get to TTIP. Why is this on the agenda of the Heads of Government? The European Parliament did not put a report to the vote recently because there was so much disagreement that it did not seem sensible to put it to the vote according to the President of the European Parliament. After the recess, another attempt will be made. This report should also set out a mandate for the negotiations. Again, what is being discussed at the summit: a new negotiating mandate, while the European Parliament has not yet adopted it, a progress report? If it is a detailed state of the negotiations, I ask the Prime Minister to send them to the Chamber. We can only really have a debate on TTIP and our final judgment when we have a treaty text. We are in favour of free trade agreements, but European standards, human rights and democracy must therefore not be held in a secret chamber as absolute principles. I agree with what the previous speaker said about Russia and Ukraine. Will the Dutch Government, now that sanctions are being extended, seek to force unanimously an international tribunal for the MH17, as is now happening everywhere in the media? That seems to the CDA to be a very sensible line. We have argued in favour of this before. It seems to us to be very sensible to find out that you are doing something like this before a suspect comes into the picture. Let me be clear: if that report were to be published in September, October, it could just point a way. Will the government set that up and ensure that at least our European partners will support our efforts?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u38	That is the end of the first term on the part of the Chamber. The Prime Minister has already jumped up, indicating that he can respond immediately. I give the floor to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u39	Mr. Chairman. A lot of questions have been asked. I think it would be a good idea to take a separate look at the situation in Greece. Then I come to the five-president report, migration, UK and then to the Other section. I'll try to answer all the questions. I'll start with Greece. There's not much news about that, really. Yesterday, the institutions informed the members of the Eurogroup and the Eurozone Summit that new proposals from Greece have been received, which provide a good basis for further discussion with the Greeks on the situation in which we find ourselves. Both the eurogroup and the euro area summit took note of this. The Eurozone Summit expressed the hope that the Eurogroup would be able to reach conclusions on this matter before the next European Council on Thursday afternoon and Friday. We will wait for this further. So I am not going to give an appreciation of the new Greek proposals. I do not think that is the job of the Dutch Government or of any government. The procedure is to wait and see what the institutions say about the proposals and the extent to which they meet the conditions laid down. As you know, we are working within the mandate of the Eurogroup on 20 February. In short, this mandate states that the Greek Government must comply with the commitments made by the previous Greek Government, but that there are two possibilities for adjustment. Firstly, proposals may be replaced by other proposals, provided that the sum total of all proposals leads to the same effects. Secondly, the institutions can at some point estimate the current economic situation and the extent to which it affects the primary surplus that Greece has to deliver. That new estimate has been made by the institutions. These are two adjustments to the previous Greek Government's programme, but that is the end of it. Within these framework conditions, the institutions are currently assessing the latest Greek proposals. We hope that this will happen as soon as possible, but we cannot give any guarantees in this respect. It will not be surprising that I agree with all the speakers who say that it would be good if it were to happen quickly. I say to Mrs Maij that we are trying to work within the framework conditions. Everyone is very motivated to do so, but of course it still has to succeed. The good news is that, after months of bad or no proposals, there are proposals on the table that the institutions say are a basis for discussion. However, that is not yet the case. Today, tomorrow and perhaps Thursday will therefore remain exciting days. Before I finish the remarks under the heading 'Greece', I will go into the specific questions that have been raised. Questioned is, how does it go if there was an agreement? The intention is to then arrive at a list of prior actions. The current estimate is that the agreement should include a list of prior actions, but one should also have the intention of using those prior actions to tranche the amounts available in the case of an agreement with the Greeks, so that the prior actions can be effectively implemented. Before that, of course, there is general approval by the Greek Parliament. That's how we look at it right now. Mr Koolmees asked a question about Juncker's 35 billion. This amount is built up as follows: 15.5 billion from the structural and cohesion budget and 20 billion from the agricultural budget. That money is available through the normal structure and the agricultural budget if Greece fulfils all the conditions. I am very reluctant to answer the questions about ELISA, the Emergency Liquidity Assistance, because this is an instrument of the European Central Bank, which does its work in independence within monetary relations in the European Union and, above all, in the euro area. I can talk the Chamber about it technically. The Greek banks, which are solvent according to SMP, can obtain liquidity from the national central bank of Greece. The ECB may, independently, determine the level of the overall ceiling for ELISA that the Greek national bank may provide. Those figures shall not be made public. So it is not so much as I would like to point out in this connection that Peter de Waard's excellent article in the Volkskrant this morning says that the ECB is transferring money to the Greek government. The Commission notes that the Greek authorities did not provide any evidence to the Greek authorities that the Greek banks would not be able to recover the aid I think I have answered all the questions about Greece.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u40	There are still a few additional questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u41	That's what I was afraid of.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u42	It's the ELA. I deliberately did not talk about shutting down the ELISA, because the ELISA is indeed the exclusive competence of the European Central Bank. I asked if the euro summit would also be willing to talk about capital restrictions. When capital flows out of your country and other capital replaces it, you get huge imbalances within the euro area. That's what the Council is about. The only way to stop that is a form of capital restrictions. They were also applied to Cyprus and then had a good effect. Cyprus has completed the whole reform programme. Are these capital restrictions in sight for the government if there is not an agreement with Greece very quickly?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u43	Not at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u44	I'll argue for that. So I do not agree with that, so I will come back to it in my second term, but the answer is clear in itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u45	I have not received an answer to many questions. I've submitted some myths to the Prime Minister. I saw him write busy then, but I don't know if he heard. I wonder if he can respond to that. I also asked him, more importantly, to do some self-reflection. The IMF did. I asked the Prime Minister if the Dutch Government has done anything wrong at all. The fact that he doesn't say anything about that, to be honest, I find it significant.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u46	We are now in the middle of completing the second Greek aid package. I find it a little strange to reflect in detail at that stage. If I had to say something about it, it would be this. I note that the euro area is willing to help countries that are seriously in trouble, provided they commit themselves to very clear conditions and programmes. For this purpose, the EFSF was first set up and then the European Stability Mechanism. This has been done under enormous public pressure in the euro Member States. There was a lot of criticism about that, too. Nevertheless, it was necessary instruments to promote stability in the euro area. This has been done on the basis that aid is also subject to obligations. Now the Greeks have to deliver their share of the deal. We've been waiting four or five months for that. That's where the problem is. I find it a little complicated, since the Greeks have not delivered for five months and have come up with proposals for the first time since yesterday that the institutions say they provide a basis for conversations. I think it is particularly important for the Greeks to deliver.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u47	And the myths?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u48	Well, those myths. I can't do that much with all that footage. I believe that everyone in Europe is working hard, doing their best and trying to make the best of it. But you're also dealing with governments.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u49	Any sympathy towards the ordinary people of Greece, who do indeed work hard, would not be out of place. It would be nice if that were to be spoken towards the Greeks and not in general. Any self-reflection wouldn't hurt the Prime Minister either. And I'm not talking about the last five months, I'm talking about the last five years. It is, of course, about the enormous austerity policy that has destroyed the country's economy. That policy was in favour of this government. Greece has implemented a policy that this government was for. This has led to massive unemployment and youth unemployment. One in two young people is unemployed. There's massive poverty. At the very least, it is not a success. Well, then you better hope the government sees what her role was in that. Perhaps she is not doing so now, but I hope she will do so very soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u50	Let me make two comments on this. The Greeks have lived on too great a footing for years. Let's be real about that. They were therefore forced to adapt their spending pattern to revenue. It has to be, sometimes, even if that is bad news for the Socialist Party. You can't keep borrowing. Next, it should be noted that, in Greek tradition, it is easier to increase revenues than cuts and structural reforms. If you have a good mix of sometimes, unfortunately, increasing income, austerity, but especially structural reforms, that economy will grow again. We see this in Portugal, in Ireland and also in Spain. That's where all the numbers are green again. Those are the facts. The Greeks are just gonna have to go fuck themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u51	All eyes are now focused on reaching an agreement. My request, however, is that we continue to focus our eyes from Europe in the medium and longer term. It is not stable if you continue to finance debt with debt, if you have a continuous capital outflow. That's what it's all about in the end. The Prime Minister states that there is neither an eye nor a solution. Is the Prime Minister prepared to raise this in Europe? Then that perspective gets a little bit further than its own nose.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u52	I agree with Mr Bishop. We're doing this, too. In November 2012, agreements were made with the Greeks on debt sustainability. The durations were then extended and interest rates reduced. If you compare the debt in Greece with the national income, the debt to GDP, you can see that these are very high figures. After 2016, there is, also given that debt extension and interest rate reduction from November 2012, a much more sustainable picture than you would suspect. You will then look at the real costs of the debt and how it weighs on Greece's annual budget after they have passed through 2015 and 2016. Those are the hard years, with the spikes and the payoffs. So the long-term is always being looked at, and we must continue to do so. Again, of course, the impact of the programme rounding that is now being discussed in relation to the long-term images will be reviewed. That must always be done. You hear very often that the Greeks' debt is not sustainable. It is true, however, that this sustainability is problematic in relation to the percentage of national income. Given the extension of the durations and the reduction of interest rates, i.e. the real impact on the budget, the debt is again much more sustainable. This will always be part of all assessments.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u53	As long as Greece needs to borrow money to finance redemption, I still do not think the matter is sound.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u54	No, that's why the Greeks must have a primary surplus. That is, of course, one of the demands. This year they must have 1%, next year they must have 2%, then 3% and then 3.5% primary surplus.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u55	Whether or not we can do that with new loans is the question for me. As the pattern of loans and the pattern of repayments now looks, a whole generation of Greek citizens will have to bear that burden. It is only after that that the weather has been slightly restored. That's the bottom line. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u56	The interesting thing, of course, is that the previous Greek government was in the process of achieving a fairly substantial primary surplus. The previous Greek government had already taken action. I refer to where Greece stood at the end of last year, together with the decisions taken in November 2012 on debt relief. There was no exit or write-off, but the terms were extended. So Greece was in the process of getting on a very sustainable path. Once again, it is important to establish with each other that there is a sustainable path. That is, of course, the purpose of all the conversations that are taking place. The Greeks must make an effort to bring them back on the sustainable path. This includes the primary surplus, also in the context of the debt situation. It all seems feasible, but then the Greeks will have to do it. That is why I think it is so important that, when we come to agreements this week, we pay out tranched against the concrete implementation of actions. That's what I said at first.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u57	I'd like to go through with this. The Prime Minister is setting out a very realistic scenario. In all seriousness, he says that the relationship between debt and national income is critical. It's very doubtful if you're okay. We need to see how firm these agreements are and whether the Greek Parliament approves them. Does he exclude that any form of debt restructuring could be part of the package?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u58	At the moment there is absolutely no question of that. No one wants to talk about that now either. I just said that there might be a problem in the relationship between debt and national income, but actually that's the wrong way of looking at it. A much more real way of looking at the Greek debt position is to look at the actual cost of debt in relation to annual budgets and the cost of debt services. Then there really is a much more sustainable picture. We have already extended the durations enormously. We've lowered the interest rates. The rack that's still in it is limited. There is no question at present that we will discuss this further in the discussions. That's not the issue in the conversations.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u59	It is about providing Greece with a future perspective. It's about offering a real perspective, of hope. Let us look at how much debt the Greeks have made, how much debt we have placed on them and how high youth unemployment is. Let us say that we have a clear view of the very difficult situation and the extent of the problems. If the problems are on the table, does the Prime Minister rule out the possibility of a form of debt restructuring, not a complete remission, but a form of debt restructuring, offering hope to the Greeks?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u60	No one's in favour of clean-up. In November 2012, interest rates were reduced and extended. That's where the rack's coming off. In 2015 and 2016, there are, of course, huge sums to be paid out. That is why we are now discussing the finalisation of the second aid package in relation to the large amounts to be paid out. After 2016, the debt is considerably more sustainable. The calculation of the institutions must show whether it is sustainable. My assessment is that it is considerably more sustainable, precisely because we are actually looking at a wrong criterion. Debt to gdp is not the right measure for long drawn-out debts and such low interest rates. The good measure is the annual cost of debt in the budget, all the more so because the Greeks now have to work towards 3.5% cruising speed primary surplus, if it is up to the institutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u61	I will go further on this point, because I think this is a very interesting point. I recognize the Prime Minister's consideration of the debt. That is also the situation, which is incomparable to the situation in Italy or Portugal, because very long repayment and very low interest rates are paid. At the same time, it is also the case that the Prime Minister himself indicated that the IMF looks very closely at debt sustainability in particular in the overall assessment of these packages. Now I understand that President Hollande and Chancellor Merkel have made it clear that there is indeed room to talk about debt relief. Perhaps not now, but in the slightly longer term, precisely in view of the sustainability of what Mr Segers has just said about Greek debt in the longer term. Can the Prime Minister give us a hint of the veil?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u62	This is not new; in November 2012 it was agreed that we would look again at the debt problem, if there is, if Greece does everything that is necessary, if Greece keeps to all the commitments and if Greece carries out all the prior actions. That's the deal that was made in November 2012. The problem is, of course, that the Greeks have not complied with all these commitments, but that agreement is well in place from 2012. Should the Greeks decide, all of a sudden, and I think that would be very wise if a deal were to be made to keep all the agreements, then that agreement is from 2012; it still stands. Only that deal is off right now, because they didn't stick to anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u63	I recognize that, and I agree with the Prime Minister. At the same time, I welcome this answer, because it gives a clear perspective to the Greeks that they are not doing it for nothing and that there is a prospect of growth from this misery. I welcome this answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u64	I am a little less pleased with this answer, because it seems a bit like the solution that is now being found is a temporary solution. Wouldn't it be much better if I said that in addition to what Mr Segers just said, to go for a more structural solution right now? In such a structural solution should there be room to look at partial debt relief?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u65	Again, that goes back to the November 2012 agreement. The problem is that that agreement does not exist at the moment because they have not complied with anything. The Greeks were also given a perspective at that time that if they were to stick to everything and everything would go well and so on, but there would still be the need to look at those debts, we would be prepared to do so without making any promises about it. I note, however, that all these durations and interest rates have been reduced so much that the impact of debt repayment and interest payments on the annual Greek budgets after 2016 is doable, so it seems reasonable to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u66	I don't think that's possible, and that debt hangs around the neck of the Greeks like a millstone. As long as it's said "we'll look at it again for a while," you don't have a solution. I also think we should be honest with ourselves. Do we really believe that all this debt is coming back at all? I've got a hard head in it anyway. Then you better choose debt relief or partial remission instead of doing so at a later stage.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u67	I would object to looking at the debt position just because of the mental problem, because it is such a large amount or such a high percentage. You have to look at the debt problem if it presents a real problem after 2016. We are now looking at how we can lead them through the next year and a half with all these repayments and especially this year. From 2017 and beyond, you need to see if it is a problem in the annual budget. If the interest rates are low and the lead time is very long, then the annual impact of that debt is clear. That's what we did in November 2012. I would also like to add that there is also something like building confidence. The Greeks, of course, have already lost the trust of everyone. I am calm here now, but last night at the Eurozone Summit, things were getting rough. We are all engaged in far-reaching reforms and difficult cuts. And then a country that has received so much support for five months is going to say, "Let's just wait and see how we think we're going to solve this problem on our side." Fortunately, there are proposals now, but to call again at that stage an agreement from November 2012 that was conditioned and contextualized in total compliance with all the agreements, which the Greeks clearly did not do, I find quite a bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u68	I can imagine that. In my term, I have said that you have been insulted and offended and that the IMF has even been called a criminal organisation, while you are now pretending that nothing is going on and that you are still giving the Greeks all the benefit of the doubt. Is a postponement, again an extension of the deadline, after those two months, after those four months, the Greeks are now asking for it again, because on Tuesday they will of course not be able to discuss it for you?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u69	My estimate is that the further extension of the package, if there is no appointment, is not negotiable for anyone. I don't think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u70	Well, the Prime Minister can say that now, but it has already been extended for two months, the package has been extended for four months, so it is possible to extend a third time. It's already happened twice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u71	Yeah, that's what happened, but not without agreements being made.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u72	Another question is whether it can be discussed by the Prime Minister that the IMF is no longer on board. The IMF is very critical of this package and has repeatedly shown itself to be no good in the Greek programme. Is it possible for the IMF to leave the ship?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u73	No, that seems to me to be an extremely bad thing. The IMF must remain genuinely involved in this. It also intends, in all respects, to remain involved in solving this problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u74	Mr Merkies, I see that you want to ask a question, but you have already interrupted this round once.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u75	Perhaps Mr Merkies' question was whether 90% of the money borrowed at the time was transferred to the banks. Is that his question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u76	I think it would be a good idea for the Prime Minister to answer that question first.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u77	I have one more question about Greece and it belongs to Mr Merkies. Mr Merkies asked me whether it was true that 90% of the money ended up in the banks. This is what I want to say. Greece borrowed too much money and made debts in the early years, as I said. That money did indeed end up in Greece itself. Salaries have been paid, pensions have been paid. In addition, the private sector made a significant contribution to the debt swap in 2012. Then there was a huge write-off on the private debt. The total loss for the private sector was then around 75% of the net present value. I therefore believe that Mr Merkies' position is not justified.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u78	I am glad that I have the opportunity to respond briefly. That huge 75% is always based on the assumption that the ridiculously high interest rate that was thought to be achieved will continue to be reached until the end of the term. That is, of course, an absurd assumption. Yeah, you get to the 75%, but that's just not realistic. It is not realistic to say: I shouldn't really get anything anymore, but I assumed that I would get 20% for many years to come. Yeah, if you keep that assumption, the write-off's gonna be pretty big. My question concerns the following. In fact, the next year is no longer about repaying debts to us, because they have been put on the long run. It is now about refunds to the ECB and the IMF. As far as the ECB is concerned, 3.5 billion this summer. Then that's actually a more acute problem. Is there room for manoeuvre in that? Is it possible, for example, for the ECB to reprofil that debt so that the Greeks can repay it later?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u79	That would be up to the ECB. However, we do not have any indication of this. The current schedule of Greece's repayments provides for large instalments to the ECB on 20 July and 20 August, in the order of over 7 billion, so I say by heart.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u80	I hope that this will be discussed with the ECB. The ECB is all over the table and is also in the troika. It's one of the biggest and most acute creditors. In this sense, the ECB is part of the problem and thus part of the solution. The ECB can make sure that Greece gets some air this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u81	There are now arrangements with the Greeks to complete the second aid package. It contains all kinds of resources, such as funds for the Greek banking programme, the 7.2 billion and all kinds of other things. These should be sufficient, as is our assessment, to finance the obligations for the rest of this year but also for part of the coming year, including the ECB repayments. I come to the EMU report of the five Presidents. The Chamber received a letter from the Cabinet on this matter. I can say a few things about that in relation to questions that have been asked. The report describes a further deepening of the system of country-specific recommendations. We want the country-specific recommendations, and indeed the whole system of the CSRs, the whole mail procedure and the whole European semester to be used to converge to a higher level and not to a lower level. Of course, the CSRs, the country-specific recommendations, are important. In the short term, the current procedures need to be strengthened. A lot's happened already. The report builds on this. There is also something about the long term: making the recommendations more enforceable. The cabinet has said that it does not see the need for this. We do not see any added value in this, nor in the legislative anchoring of the convergence process, but we do support all the proposals aimed at making the country-specific recommendations more successful. Then I come to the question about the competition authority, which is being proposed. We know them in the Netherlands. That's the Central Planning Office. It would be good if other countries would also enjoy such a central planning agency. This is also one of the proposals put forward by the Netherlands. The Chamber has seen the Dutch bet. This can also help in the public debate. It also keeps political parties sharp, we know here in the Netherlands. It would strengthen the view of competitiveness in a broad sense and would also focus more on it. A question has also been asked about the stability function. We are not in favour of that, as the Chamber knows. There are far better ways to cope with shocks, such as ensuring that your public finances are healthy, that you have a flexible economy and a functioning capital market. If things really go wrong, we have the ESM with full conditionality. So we are not in favour of shock absorption funds or stability functions. We're not gonna pay for the French, I'll take a quick look. How can we prevent the creation of new institutions without democratic legitimacy? We believe, on the contrary, that we should try to improve the functioning of existing institutions. Look at the toys Mr Van 't Wout has to clean up in the Council. This also focuses on the macroeconomic imbalances procedure, the meo-procedure, and the involvement of national parliaments. In fact, we do not see anything in further shaping of all kinds of new institutions. Let us first make a success of what is going on, the two-pack, the six-pack and the SGP. What kind of good things do we all have in that regard? In this context, a question has also been asked about the European fiscal board. The good news is that the report states that the Stability and Growth Pact is the anchor. We have the national budgetary authority. We should see what the meaning of such a fiscal board should be in that whole. I have already looked at it more closely, but we do not yet see exactly its usefulness. We do not see how this should work either, apart from the Commission. In fact, we have a lot of questions about it, but it seems to be something new. We are very much in favour of such institutions as far as they are national. In that respect, I would like to draw your attention to those cpbs from other countries. What is a social Europe? For us, it is important that we strengthen the social dimension alongside the strengthening of the internal market and in conjunction with it. This also shows all the colors of this coalition, without one of the parties having exclusive one of those colors. The quality of Member States' social policies needs to be improved. It is important that Member States are supported by the implementation of the recommendations under the European Semester. The social dimension must be about preventing the negative effects of the functioning of the internal market. For example, the issue of labour migration. We all know the Decent Work Agenda that entages the Minister of Social Affairs. I am very much in favour of it myself, and I am trying to help it on all sides. The agenda also helps us in the discussion with, for example, the UK. These are all examples of how we want to strengthen the social dimension. That is in response to the questions about the five presidents' report.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u82	The Prime Minister loosely goes through all kinds of proposals. He says the cabinet doesn't need it. It is therefore a question of further interference through the country-specific recommendations. At the same time, Minister Dijsselbloem's signature is underneath. Can the Prime Minister imagine that there is some confusion about the degree of support or rejection of the Dutch cabinet when it comes to these plans?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u83	It's not like those five presidents held the pen together and wrote everything down. We have to note that there is a great deal of agreement on the short-term proposals contained in the report of the five governors. The Dutch response also shows that it seems that we have partly written these proposals because they are suspiciously similar to our own input. If you then look at the longer term, then it varies much more. Then directions are pointed and there is talk of "maybe." I'll mention a finance minister in 2025. We have a lot of questions about that. These are questions that the different presidents undoubtedly have themselves. That is why these proposals stand for the longer term. They still need to be studied further.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u84	As it continues in time, Minister Dijsselbloem would be less in agreement with it and less in his text than in the short term. If the labour market, social security, pension and health care can be part of the European Semester, would those country-specific recommendations go very far? What is a firm position of the Netherlands against the use of this piece?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u85	I have just outlined that we have questions about this, that we do not see any new institutions and that we do not see any added value in legislation, in laying down such matters. However, for the longer term too, we are of course very interested in the way in which the proposals contained in the Five Presidents' Report can contribute to further convergence at a higher level. Following the start of Mr Segers' response, I note that this applies to all five Presidents. It is not a report that sets out exactly what the world looks like in 2025; it shows quite exactly what needs to be done in the coming years and then outlines a number of lines of vision for the longer term. These are useful, because they help us in the debate to determine positions and see how we proceed from the basis, which is much more in 2017 and 2018 than in 2015.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u86	I'm just processing these last words. It reminds me a bit of the debate on the banking union. In 2011, we suddenly had a banking problem in Europe and all kinds of countries were sucked in by the banks. The bright idea then suddenly arose to create a banking union. That happened in a couple of years, and it's working really well now. At the same time, there are a lot of interesting views here to make monetary union work better. The Prime Minister responds by saying that it is fun in the short term and good, but that we will stop thinking in the longer term. That's not supposed to happen, is it? In 2017 there will be a white paper with just those long-term views and I assume that the Dutch cabinet will think about this, just to prevent you from being surprised by all kinds of developments, such as with the Banking Union in 2011.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u87	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u88	That is a short and powerful answer, but this means that these proposals provide an interesting basis for Europe's post-2017 views?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u89	In the short term, they strengthen Europe's competitive strength in many respects, as it forces countries to make their position completely public and transparent. For example, the impact of the policy on the future is determined independently and not by the government, to name but one element. For the longer term, as far as the Dutch Government is concerned, we have a lot of instruments. Let's be real. I stay a bit in the picture of the toys Mr Van 't Wout sketched: if you pick up something new every time and don't finish the puzzle, the train or the cabin and jump to something new, it's not all that useful. So we do not believe in building new institutions. We want to make a success of what's going on. We already have the whole set of instruments and what is now much more important is that we stick to each other. One of the attractive elements of taking over the Dutch, better governance agenda, which is very much reflected in the short-term story, is that it fully targets not only the competitiveness but also the social side of the economy, so that the discussion can be conducted nationally in parliament and in the media. You can't duck anymore because things become visible. That really adds something. But yes, to start philosophizing about a eurozone finance minister by 2025? We really need to take those steps first, step by step.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u90	I think we should send Mr Van 't Wout on Thursday, because he just said very clearly that part 2 and part 3 can go through the shredder. He sends that message to the Prime Minister, which means that he simply has to strike a line like he did six months ago. Then he said he would not see any Member State contracts or a euro budget. That was the sound of six months ago. Now the Prime Minister says we'll see it and he talks about vistas. He knows what they're like in Brussels, doesn't he? Step by step and before you know it, he is on those Member State contracts and can speed up the reduction of mortgage interest subsidies, because they want to do so in Brussels if necessary. He has to draw a line much harder: up to here and no further and parts 2 and 3 can pass through the shredder as far as the Netherlands is concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u91	On that point, I believe that we have come up against the idea of these Member State contracts, albeit not in the way suggested here, otherwise you would have had them by now, but in the sensible quiet way of the Dutch Government, in which you can put things in time to see them disappear.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u92	That's not the M.O. They start with non-binding recommendations, then they make them a little more compelling, then you're in the corrective arm, and then you have to, and before you know it, hang on to it. That is the method in Brussels, and you, the Prime Minister, must firmly distance yourself from this interference, from the transfer of sovereignty! I see you standing here a year ago: no more sovereignty in Brussels. This report is full of transfers of sovereignty!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u93	I do not believe that Mr Van Dijck and I differ so much, but the pitch is perhaps something else. As far as the commitments of the Stability and Growth Pact are concerned, it is a good thing that we have them. If the PVV were to do its job, our budget would, of course, run wild.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u94	When will we receive the final appreciation? Chapter 5 states that there must be better democratic control.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u95	I'm supposed to be here signaling my officials.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u96	I assume this is a signal. I think there's a nice little screen there too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u97	No, it doesn't. That's exactly what I'm saying for the viewers at home: that screen is always off, so I have to do it all by myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u98	Okay. I thought the ICT would work better here, but that's another story.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u99	It's out here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u100	Quite far-reaching proposals are being made here. That's the only match between D66 and PVV. If you think that we should look at this democratically, then it should not be like the banking union: it is now very necessary; we say yes; we do not know whether we are saying yes to it and suddenly you have the banking union. I think we should say yes or no to some of these proposals very clearly. Our views on pensions are well known: no way, just to mention one. That is why I am asking for that final opinion from the government. I want to know when decisions will be taken by the European Union and when they will be taken by the European Council. The second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u101	Shall we ask the Prime Minister first to answer the first question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u102	In the context of my firm leadership, I am going to understand myself as a civil servant on that point. I'm gonna ask my officials if they're gonna send their answer and then I'm gonna put it to you nicely.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u103	Mr Omtzigt's second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u104	He came after it a little bit. Can we be sure that, particularly with regard to these vistas, everything that is more than a year away from this report, no steps will be taken at the forthcoming European summit?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u105	Of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u106	Not that it will be included in the declaration and referred to later.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u107	If the forthcoming summits are implemented a little further, this will be particularly short-term. Nor is that happening at this European Council. It is expected that we will discuss this at this European Council in particular on a procedural basis. These longer-term proposals are in the longer term. I also think I say a number of things that we do not like. I mentioned them. On a number of other points, we have a lot of questions, so we are not enthusiastic about these longer-term proposals. We are excited about many proposals between now and 2017, if only because they come mostly from our case.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u108	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u109	We should also be proud that sometimes things work out in Brussels. Then I come to the issue of migration. In fact, there is not so much news there about the previous debate with the migration spokesmen, except that there is a question of whether or not to make the contribution of the Member States to relocation mandatory. That is actually the most important question before us. If you peel it all off, that question is not very relevant to the Netherlands either, because we have always chosen the position that we are willing to make our contribution on all those parts, provided that it is in conjunction with all the other elements of the package and that other countries are also involved. As much as that is the case, we are doing more. We want to make a positive contribution to this, in conjunction with it. So basically, it's important now to see what other countries are going to do in the next few weeks and months. We are prepared to take serious steps, but in coherence. For relocation and resolution, we have of course also put the theme on the fork of the distribution, the percentages. How do you deal with that? How do you take account of this, which is a wish that the Netherlands has made to the JHA Council, which is already making efforts by Member States? How do you ensure that they are taken more heavily into account? How do you ensure that all Member States fulfil their obligations and register migrants where they enter Europe? How do you ensure that they do so in the way it is provided for in European asylum policy? Those are all kinds of conditions. If you look at resolution, there are a number of other issues. Do you have to drag every boat to Europe or can you also let it go back to Africa and put it in a safe part of Africa? What does the rest of Africa do? How do you make sure that you stop those boats from going sailing at all by tackling them when they're still empty? It's all about that sort of thing. Actually, nothing's changed since last time. We have a positive attitude. Mrs Maij, Mr Van 't Wout and other speakers have already said so. We simply want to help seriously to solve this problem, but in conjunction with the other policy elements and noting that other countries are also prepared to take responsibility. We're going to see how that develops, also towards July. I can easily imagine that one of the conclusions is that in the coming weeks after this European Council on relocation, the Commission is going to pick up the networks to find out what other countries are going to do. I'm not sure, but that might be very useful, because then you'll see how that goes. Then maybe you'll get a little bit loose from the doctrine, whether it's mandatory or not. Against this background, I come to a few specific questions that have been asked. I have already told you what Mr Dijkhoff did at the JHA Council. Hungary was asked for. It is essential that all Member States comply with their obligations and commitments, including under difficult circumstances. They cannot be unilaterally suspended. The same applies to Hungary, I say to Mr Omtzigt. Hungary has indicated that it has temporarily stopped the withdrawal of refugees due to technical problems of a temporary nature. There is no unilateral withdrawal of Dublin obligations, says Hungary. The Commission has now initiated an investigation. Moreover, this issue will be raised tomorrow in the so-called Dublin Contact Committee. That is where Hungary will have to explain itself. I think I have answered these questions. In the meantime, all of the supernatural, I have received an answer to the question of how we will arrive at a final cabinet position on the five-president report. If there are no further questions about migration, I can give that answer now. As I said, this report is on the agenda of this European Council. I think it will mainly be a process discussion. This will then be discussed in regular consultations with the Chamber and will also be discussed in the normal consultations. Then the Chamber should also think of a response to the White Paper in 2017 and so on. This is just our final reaction. This is what we think of the report. I come to the questions about the UK. I agree with everyone who has stressed the importance of the United Kingdom staying with the Union. The VVD did that and so did other parties. As is well known, the Netherlands is active in this area. We think it is important to include a number of important issues for the Netherlands. Think of deepening the market, the simplification of Europe, that is, the Europe of things and not of things, the theme of fairness in migration and working relations, equal pay for equal work and so on. To be honest, my expectation for this European Council is not much more than that the English colleague will outline on a number of broad lines what he would like to achieve in the next few months, I will rate 18 to 24 months or 12 to 18/24 months. The Netherlands really wants to make an active contribution to this. That is what I said to my English colleague. We do that at all levels. We want to ensure that ultimately there is an outcome that is better not only for the UK but for the whole of Europe. We really need to refocus that discussion from the UK versus the 27. No, it is an opportunity for all 28 Member States to achieve a better European Union. I'm gonna join the rest category. A question has been asked about the common security and defence policy and the UN mandate. As the Chamber knows, an international mandate for the Netherlands is extremely important. Discussions on this subject have been suspended for the time being pending the progress of talks with the Libyan authorities on cooperation in maritime operations. As a result, a question was asked about parliamentary control. Shouldn't there be an article 100 letter? The mission was launched last Monday at the Foreign Affairs Council, the Foreign Affairs Council. The Chamber was informed of this through the annotated agenda for the Council and also through the general consultations held by Minister Koenders. Now it's just phase one, gathering intelligence. The next stages can only start if the appropriate international mandate is in place. It is up to the Council to assess whether this is the case. Before such a decision is taken, the Chamber will be informed by regular means. An Article 100 procedure is only dealt with if the Dutch armed forces are deployed or made available. That is not the case at the moment. Of course, the Chamber will be informed accordingly and in accordance with the agreed procedure. I come to the EU's fundamental rights check as proposed by the European Parliament. Above all, all Member States have an obligation to comply with the EU treaties. The Cabinet attaches particular importance to the protection of the values set out in Article 2 of the Convention and the fundamental rights of the EU Charter. This is, among other things, about the ban on the death penalty. At the heart of the matter is the active attitude of the cabinet and, above all, its desire to make use of existing instruments. Here too, the cabinet is not in favour of new and additional initiatives if the existing ones are not yet fully exploited. If the European Parliament wants to draw up such an initiative, it is, of course, up to the European Parliament as one of the institutions of the Union. Once again, we believe that the existing instruments and mechanisms provide a sufficient basis for action. The budget freeze. I understand that D66 will not rest until the summit takes place in the first half of next year. I would not look too much at the instruments, but above all at the objectives. We are in total agreement on the spirit of the motion for a resolution calling for such a budget freeze. Let there be no confusion about that. That is why we are ambitious to organise a major high-level seminar so that we can move forward at a very early stage in the debate on the new multiannual financial framework. Then, if it is up to us, there will be a ministerial discussion in the informal General Affairs Council. Before such a summit makes sense, you should have the publications of the mid-term review of the multiannual financial framework and also the report of the high-level group on own resources, I believe led by Italian former Prime Minister Monti. Both documents are expected to be dealt with in the second half of 2016. Against this background, I sincerely believe that a summit in the first half of 2016 is premature. Let us build up properly during our Presidency: a seminar, the informal General Affairs Council, then the Monti reports that will become available, and then the evaluation of the MFF. In the second half of the year you have the base to keep the top. Europe has not stopped, I say to D66. Europe also exists after 1 July 2016. We're gonna work on that with each other, and then we can do some good business there. Several questions have been asked about TTIP. It is mainly about discussing the state of play. There are currently no major decisions on the agenda of the European Council. Mr Segers specifically asked us what our position is on the issue of investment protection and dispute resolution. As you know, the inclusion of international agreements on investment protection in TTIP is important. This also provides basic rules for the protection of foreign investors against unlawful action by governments. Those basic rules ensure fair, equitable treatment and non-discrimination. In the Netherlands, the rules are already embedded in the national legal system. That is why there has never been a claim in the Netherlands. Of course, the quality of national justice or a fair trial abroad is not guaranteed everywhere. Therefore, an alternative route through international dispute resolution remains important. To this end, TTIP offers an opportunity to achieve a more global standard. In order to achieve this, investment protection needs to be improved. We are actively committed to modernising the current mechanism and at the same time to addressing existing concerns. We have made proposals to that effect. Mrs Ploumen, Minister for Foreign Trade, is very active and enjoys a great deal of authority with her colleagues abroad.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u110	The Prime Minister says that legal certainty is not guaranteed everywhere and that investment protection is therefore necessary. Surely that cannot be the case in the European Union and the United States? Those are mature, decent states of law where you can just get justice from the national court, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u111	Such a free trade agreement also has a huge impact on other parts of the world. You are talking about the two largest trading blocs, which together account for 45% of the world economy. So you will have no choice but to agree with this type of large trade agreement on the issues of investment protection and dispute resolution, or at least to consider them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u112	I'm trying to get the answer to me working. Of course you have to take that into account. In the case of the United States and the European Union, there are decent states of law, where you can get your rights from the courts and where an SME has a problem just goes to court. But when it comes to multinationals, suddenly a supranational court is set up and we are going to privatise our case law to some extent. There are serious concerns and motions for resolutions adopted by the Chamber. I hope that the cabinet really puts its finger on this and makes it clear that there can be no question of the privatisation of our case law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u113	That is why we are focusing on modernising the current mechanism as much as possible, while addressing all this type of concern.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u114	I think the approach was not to have a private ISDS, so not a private mechanism, but a public dispute resolution mechanism.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u115	I'll come back to this in second term. In the meantime, I have noticed that everything I say about this is so weighed on a scale that, before I enter a trap, I am going to understand myself as a civil servant.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u116	We weigh everything you say on a very nice scale.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u117	I know. That's why I'm so careful.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u118	Mr Omtzigt, does this mean that your question can also be passed on to the Prime Minister's answer on TTIP?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u119	If I ask the question now, maybe it could be taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u120	Then an answer can also be prepared. That may not be unwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u121	You know me, so you can see why. The European Parliament held the vote on TTIP. So there is no negotiating mandate. What exactly is there for decision at the forthcoming European summit? Is a new negotiating mandate being given? For the second term, too, I have a comment in addition to what Mr Segers said. We even have a European arrest warrant in the European Union. This means that there is no test for individual European citizens in itself, but that you can be brought directly under the Polish, Bulgarian or Italian courts. How is it that this is not a problem for citizens of this country in itself, but that it will be a bigger problem for businesses?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u122	The European Parliament adopted on 9 and 10 June. with a narrow majority decided to postpone a debate plus vote. On 29 June, the Trade Committee of the European Parliament shall discuss the continuation of the debate. You see division among a number of groups, including the Socialist Group. That means it's going to July or September. Of course, we have the problems in America. Obama did not receive support for a Trade Adjustment Assistance and linked to it a Trade Promotion Authority (TPA) and thus the accelerated conclusion of the negotiations. On the one hand, these developments have no impact on the next round of negotiations, scheduled for the week of 13 July. They may have an impact on the so far Council-wide commitment to reach a political agreement by the end of 2015. That is the target time that has always been mentioned. The Netherlands is still sticking to that timetable, but we are saying, as always, that care is above speed. In the autumn, therefore, we must take stock, also in the light of these developments in Congress and in the European Parliament, of whether this timetable is feasible. That is why I expect in this European Council no more than a feedback from President Schulz of the European Parliament on how this has happened in the European Parliament and how he feels about it. Furthermore, no discussion on TTIP is foreseen at this European Council.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u123	The latter is a clear answer. So there will be no new negotiating mandate or anything like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u124	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u125	When will we see the text?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u126	Of what?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u127	From TTIP. When can we see it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u128	I don't know. I hope I will be able to answer that question in the second term. Another question was asked about the MH17. I can say that, as we know, on 21 July 2014, the UN Security Council adopted Resolution 2166 calling for the perpetrators of the MH17 to be prosecuted. Currently, the countries of the Joint Investigation Team are looking at Australia, Belgium, Malaysia, the Netherlands and Ukraine as the best options for prosecution, also, of course, in preparation for the completion of the criminal investigation and investigation of the independent Security Research Council. At present, these countries are consulting with other countries to seek support for the best option. I can't say anything else about that. Finally, I would like to ask Mr Bishop whether the Ukraine-Russia crisis also affects the nuclear umbrella in Europe. I can say that it is precisely because of all the developments around the European Union, including the crisis in Ukraine, that it is important that there is a strategic review of European foreign and security policy. We need to provide adequate answers to these current developments. The nuclear umbrella is, of course, not a matter for the European Union, but for NATO. That is not, therefore, a subject at this European Council. We are always trying to make a very clear distinction between NATO tasks and matters on which the European Union is concerned. In the NATO context, changes in NATO's nuclear posture are not at issue at present. As is well known, NATO's nuclear policy is enshrined in the strategic concept and the Deterrence and Defence Posture Review. So there are no plans to change that now. If that were the case, this would certainly not be the case at this European Council, because it is a European Council and not a NATO Council. Mr President, I believe that, with the exception of a single question on TTIP, I have answered all the questions generously. At least I did my best to answer all the questions. Whether that was generous is up to you to judge.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u129	This brought an end to the government's first term of office. I assume there's a need for a second term. That is the subject of a speaking time of one third of the speaking time during the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u130	That's gonna work, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman. I thank the Prime Minister for the answers. I am a positive person, so I do see a few points of light in the answers, particularly about Greece. If the prior actions succeed, then there is enough time with tranche ring to be able to achieve a proper execution of a possible agreement. I also think it is important that the Prime Minister said that the debt sustainability analysis is really an integral part of the whole approach, including the IMF. This also means looking at the long-term perspective of the Greeks, possibly with debt relief. I wish the Prime Minister every success with this difficult problem at the European summit. I'm a little more critical about the Five Presidents' Report. Mr. Van 't Wout followed the classic VVD line. He said, "I don't like sights." I hear the Prime Minister say something a little more nuanced about this. Well, that's a little bit of hope. Sometimes it is quite good to look ten years ahead. From time to time it is quite good to think about how we deal with the organisation of monetary union in political, economic and also democratic terms. The question is indeed how we are going to deal with this. D66 considers it wise to deal with this in detail in our Parliament and to think about the views and the dot on the horizon. I would like to hear another reaction to that. I believe that Mr Omtzigt also asked for this. My group chairman will probably continue to struggle extensively with the Prime Minister on migration in the feedback process. It is striking that a message has just come from Bavaria. That is where we are considering reintroducing border controls. Perhaps that is a point that the Prime Minister can discuss with his German colleague tomorrow. I am less positive about the Prime Minister's somewhat persistent response to the fundamental rights check. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas a binding mechanism to maintain democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights in the EU is lacking;]] [[Whereas the European Parliament has adopted a proposal calling for the development of an instrument to ensure compliance and enforcement of the Charter and the Treaties by all EU Member States, on the basis of common and objective indicators;]] [[calls on the Government, at the European Council, to advocate that the proposal for a binding EU mechanism for democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights be developed by the European Commission,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Koolmees. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-987]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u131	That's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u132	I've heard the Prime Minister give the answer to the Five Presidents' report.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u133	Then I missed that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u134	Perhaps the Prime Minister would like to give the answer again in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u135	Madam President. I thank the Prime Minister for the answers. To some questions about TTIP we will get answers. We'll wait and see. With regard to Greece, the Prime Minister has carefully opened the door to debt restructuring. We encourage this, because it can be part of a solid solution. He outlined a scenario that could still go wrong in Parliament with the solidity of the agreements that still have to be made. I ask him whether the Prime Minister still believes that the possible abandonment of Greece in the euro area also means the end of Greece's EU membership. In a previous debate he put that rather squarely. If that could be the scenario, it would be very dramatic if we had to let go of each other at EU level. With regard to the Five Presidents' report, I have a motion to make it clear that we do not want a scenario à la de playroom with the Van 't Wout family. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the five presidents conclude that the euro area can only develop into an economic and monetary union "if a system of rules and guidelines for the formulation of national economic policies is changed to a system where sovereignty is more closely shared with common institutions";]] [[considers that the existing budgetary and macro-economic policy arrangements are sufficient and that new agreements, with a stronger share of sovereignty, cannot now be reached;]] [[points out that Member States should continue to be able to decide on the measures to implement the commitments under the Stability and Growth Pact and the European Semester,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Segers, Mr Omtzigt, Mr Bishop and Mr Van 't Wout. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-988]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u136	Then I give the floor to Mr Merkies of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u137	Mr. Chairman. We have just discussed Greece in detail. Looking back, I still don't see much self-reflection. Maybe that'll come at a good time. If we look ahead, we don't know what's coming. Looks like we've got a deal coming up. I call for it to be a social agreement, which takes account of the needs of the Greeks, and also of a lasting agreement, which lasts longer, so that we do not stand here again this summer. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that an agreement with Greece is imminent;]] [[calls on the government to work for an agreement with Greece that offers prospects for a sustainable solution, giving Greece the space needed to restore its economy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Merkies. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-989]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u138	The plan has yet to pass through the Greek parliament. I ask the Prime Minister what happens if the Greek Parliament votes against it. Is this taken into account? This could also be done by Néa Dimokratia, the right-wing party in Greece. Then we still have no agreement. What happens then? Then I'll get to the Five Presidents' report. Indeed, the long-term vision is lacking. There's that elephant again. It would be nice if we could look a little further away so that we can understand that. If there are things that the government does not like, let it say so clearly. Perhaps that is true for that fiscal board because it is unnecessary, and for the stabilisation function, which is vague. I have the next motion on that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is a great deal of uncertainty surrounding the European stabilisation function as proposed in the Five Presidents' Report;]] [[calls on the government to categorically reject a stabilisation function for the euro area as a priority for a euro area budget,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Merkies. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-990]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u139	Since I have a very small amount of time left, I would like to know why the ECB's enormous stamp is on this. The ECB has a somewhat leading role to play here. More broadly, when I look at Greece, I see that the ECB is increasingly sitting on the seat of the politician. How does the Prime Minister feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u140	Then I give the floor to Mr Tony van Dijck of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u141	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I wish the Prime Minister every success on Thursday in signing the next cheque, because it is going to be there. That's 7.2 billion. That brings me to my next question. The 10.9 billion, which apparently is also signed for, is officially available from the emergency fund for the banks. Does that mean that it goes directly to the banks, or will that also go to the Greek Government? I also ask the Prime Minister if he still believes that the money will come back with interest. That's what the former finance minister thought. The call for forgiveness from Greece has never been so harsh in recent months. Never before has it sounded so open: we must forgive, we must restore debt. The IMF is already calling that out. I think the prime minister is the only one who thinks the money's coming back. Then I have a procedural question. What if there's a deal on Thursday? Then the Greek Parliament still has to agree, then six Member States will have to give parliamentary approval, including the Netherlands, and next Tuesday 1.6 billion will have to be transferred to the IMF in Washington. How does the Prime Minister intend to do that? I understand that postponing that deadline of 30 June is not an option for this Prime Minister. I just specifically asked him that. If they do not manage to transfer 1.6 billion by 30 June, the IMF has said, then they are in default and the ELISA crane also closes. Suppose the troika gives "okay" tomorrow. Now the troika is the ECB and it gives "okay" because it wants to turn off the ELISA crane. The European Commission is always "okay" because it wants to save the euro. So the only hope is based on the IMF. That's the only party at the table with a little bit of a sense of reality left. I read that the IMF is very critical, because there are no cuts in the plan but a lot of burdens. This is bad for the sustainability of Greek debt and would only nip economic growth in the bud. To pull the IMF and the Greeks over the line, Juncker is now waving 35 billion to "avert growth-pressure trends in the compromise." Is this 35 billion from the agricultural and structural funds intended to counter growth-enhancing trends in the compromise and finally to bring the IMF and the Greeks over the line? I think that is the abuse of European money.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u142	Then I give the floor to Mrs Voortman van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u143	Mr. Chairman. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, a sustainable solution for Greece is a solution that recognises that partial debt relief or remission will have to take place. Mr Segers just heard the Prime Minister say that there could be room for that. I have not heard that so precisely, so I would ask the Prime Minister to repeat his position on this. In addition, I asked about the long-term planning. I had heard that there would be a preliminary agreement whereby the hot potato would be moved forward to the autumn, but that does not seem to me to be a good structural solution. I would like to hear what concrete steps the Netherlands believes should be taken by the EU. The Prime Minister noted that there is not much news to report on migration. That is precisely the problem, because in that case there is a standstill and there is no comprehensive package of solutions that can be put into effect quickly. I ask the Prime Minister what the Netherlands is doing to get other countries involved. Apparently, that's what it's stuck on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u144	Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. The first motion concerns the so-called vistas of the so-called five presidents. This proposal must be withdrawn as soon as possible, because it will lead to the transfer of sovereignty. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Presidents of the European Commission, the Eurogroup, the European Parliament and the EU and ECB Presidents presented a plan for further integration of EMU;]] [[Whereas Member States should give up further sovereignty in this plan with the aim of saving the euro area;]] [[calls on the government, at the European Summit, to strongly distance itself from this plan,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bontes. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-991]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u145	Soft healers make stinky wounds. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government, at the European summit, to commit to a Greek departure from the euro area,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bontes. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-992]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u146	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Prime Minister for his first-term answers. By the way, I thank the government for the annotation. From the Standing Committee on European Affairs we have repeatedly called for a little more relief in the annotation, so that we can get a better picture of what the European Parliament and the other Member States, for example, think. We note that this annotation has taken a good step for the first time. Of course it can always be a step better, but thank you for that. I see there's nodding on the official couch. I asked questions about Greece. I think it is a good thing that the cabinet wants to wait and see what the institutional vision is, but I also welcome the Prime Minister's statement that the will is there to get out. That political will is, in my view, really necessary to take steps forward. I would also like to comment on the report by the five Presidents, the five Presidents. I think we are already taking the first step, as I said in the first term, but we must now, above all, wait and see what will be discussed at the end of this week and what the timetable will be. Some colleagues have also asked about the timetable. I would like to join in that. What's the timetable that's gonna come up after that? We'd like to hear that again, maybe already, but probably next week. As far as we are concerned, it is important not to lose sight of the social dimension. I would like to endorse the question raised by my College of GroenLinks on migration. If we all turn around like hedgehogs, there is not much progress. It is extremely important that the committee's proposal, which is an integrated proposal, has also stressed to the Prime Minister that it is not a choice package, but a package that we must take together in all the different facets. The question is justified as to what the Netherlands is doing to speed things up. Finally, a comment on the UK and the deepening of the market. I always get a little anxious about that, because most of the time it's just about the market. I hope, however, that it will not only be about improving the internal markets for business, but that it will also look closely at the social effects, in particular labour migration, but also the labour displacement that is taking place in a number of countries, for example, by not working in the same place for equal pay.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u147	Mr Bishop has signed off on the rest of the sitting, so I give the floor to Mr Van 't Wout.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u148	Mr. Chairman. To be able to get a warm welcome at home tomorrow, it might be good to say that all my remarks about the children's toys were metaphorical and that my kids finish everything they start. Otherwise we will have misery there again tomorrow, and the weeks will be exciting enough for the coming time. You cannot be reassured about the situation in Greece, but I am reassured by the reconfirmation of the government's commitment to Greece, as was done last week by the Minister of Finance on the commitment of the VVD. Then I come to the Four Presidents' Report... oh, no, the Five Presidents' Report. I think someone's very offended if we don't mention that fifth. It's really a bit in the typography. I think that's saying a lot. Anyway, I think Mr Omtzigt said that we need to talk about this here, even before things get out of there. So I see a role for ourselves as committees. As far as the VVD is concerned, apart from what we think of all those parts, there will be no decision-making in the coming days. I would particularly like to thank all five presidents for their efforts to avoid further quarrels. Perhaps the following applies not to this Council, but to later, when the Prime Minister talks to his colleagues. The whole Brexit story is, of course, related to many of the themes that we are going to work on in the coming period: TTIP, migration and strengthening the digital market. I think it is right to say to all the Member States who have an interest in keeping the British involved: make sure that we get there in the near future, because then we will have a good story in a referendum, no matter how terrible that instrument is. Furthermore, I think I should leave it at that, so that at least tonight the Prime Minister can be in his bed on time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u149	Mr. Chairman. The Prime Minister will probably make it in Brussels later than he makes it here today, given the problems that exist. The problems with Greece are truly great. The phrase 'the Greek Parliament must also agree' is a very exciting phrase for us. I think everyone's really at their max of what they can wear. We are going to look closely at what is happening with the principles that we have set out here. The Prime Minister said capital restrictions are not at issue right now. We do not think so, so I shall table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are major imbalances in Greece due to the uncontrolled and systematic channeling of capital abroad;]] [[Whereas it is better for Greece that capital stays in the country and for the euro countries that the exposure in Greece does not increase further;]] [[calls on the Government to enter into direct consultations with EU partners and Greece to introduce capital restrictions for Greece,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Omtzigt and Mr Segers. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-993]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u150	I'm on the Five Presidents' Report. In the preliminary appreciation, which was truly rapid, it was stated that elements of the report should be further examined. Then we thought: if they are studied more closely, we will also be informed about them. As it concerns very large themes, I can imagine that there is no definitive appreciation within 24 or 48 hours. I understand that very well, but he has to get there. Otherwise, Chapter 5 of it, on better democratic control, is a total farce. You cannot say that you are going to make major proposals for the labour market, deepening the market, pensions, the European Semester and European emergency funds, and then say: we will see when that happens. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Five Presidents' Report contains far-reaching proposals on, for example, the Capital Markets Union, the European Emergency Funds, pensions, the labour market, the European Semester and many other issues that are full of national policy space and sovereignty;]] [[calls on the Government to give an appreciation of each of the proposals and directions in the report by 1 September 2015,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Omtzigt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-994]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u151	We are curious about the answers to the questions about TTIP. We understand it's a complicated negotiation. When can we see a text and know how it will be approved? That still hangs in the air at TTIP. Then I'll come to the MH17 prosecution. We did not ask what the precise strategy was. We think it is extremely wise of this government to seek international support for a prosecution strategy before the OVV and the public prosecutor come forward with the answer to the question of who might have done it. Otherwise the prosecution will be even more political, and it will be very difficult. Will the Prime Minister ensure that he has the support of all 27 colleagues at the European Summit to make this a common European position?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u152	I give the floor to the Prime Minister for his response to the motions tabled and the outstanding questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u153	Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna give you a few more answers about TTIP, but if there's any follow-up questions, I'm gonna stop. I'll tell you why. TTIP is not being discussed at all at this European Council. So, in the context of this debate, I have also been less interested in it than in all other subjects. I know by now that this is an issue where every answer is even more sensitive than on other subjects. So I'm going to try to serve you, but I'm going to ask you to take it up with Mrs Ploumen, the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation. It is asked when results of TTIP are expected. We support the rapid conclusion of the negotiations, but quality is above speed. The themes in the TTIP discussion are wide, complex and tough. They mainly had a technical character in 2014. The elections to the European Parliament and the creation of a new European Commission were then discussed. Of course, the biggest opportunity to achieve something is this year, 2015, because there are no major elections in Europe or in America. Nevertheless, much remains to be discussed and there is certainly no agreement yet. This means that it is still uncertain whether it will be possible to get out in 2015. On the other hand, there is a great will. This was confirmed by President Obama and confirmed by the European Council in March. We are still positive that we can achieve these results this year. We are in favour of transparency. This promotes a fact-based social debate. The Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation also explained this in her letter of 8 June. The full text for TTIP will be presented to the Chamber once the negotiations have been concluded. There is, of course, consultation with the Minister at every Foreign Affairs Council when it is on the agenda. Many EU proposals for the chapters in TTIP can already be viewed publicly and online by DG Trade. Then I come to the question of investment protection, public or private. The conclusion is that the extent to which this will be regulated exclusively by the public is still part of discussions with the European Commissioner. The question whether the public or private is involved is the possibility for the Netherlands to make its own policy without running the risk of court cases of investors. That is why, together with other countries, we have proposed a number of improvements with regard to investment protection. It's actually four elements. Public policies in areas such as the environment, health care and social security must be able to change. This should not lead to claims from investors. Furthermore, the arbitrators must be independent in their high-quality statements. This can be done, for example, by a code of conduct or by a so-called permanent dispute resolution body, such as an international investment court or secretariat. It should be possible to appeal arbitration rulings, and rulings of the Arbitration Tribunal or the Investment Court should not interfere with national case law. I can say that a final proposal for investment protection with regard to the Dutch cabinet will have to include these safeguards. Again, whether this will only be done publicly, we are discussing it with the Commissioner. Mr Koolmees has yet to be consulted on the five-president report. I thought the President suggested that that question had already been answered. Mr Segers has asked whether Greece should be removed. I said earlier that there is a considerable body of opinion that says: that would be the result. However, there are also European lawyers who say that this is not the case. Let me say it carefully: we don't know for sure. European law is unclear about this. There is certainly no automatism: leave the euro area or leave the European Union. I suspect we all agree that if it were to come to a grexit, we are working to prevent it from happening, and it is wise that Greece should remain a member of the European Union. Whether it can be done legally is something that my ruling was about at the time. It wasn't a goal statement or a statement on what's desirable. It was an assessment of EU law. Now that we have looked more closely into it, it appears to be considerably less concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u154	Well, at least we'll put a line on that. Last time, the Prime Minister was very, very clear: that would be the necessary follow-up. I'm glad this is nuanced now. I understand that it is not the direction the cabinet is heading, but it is now clear that it is an option that could possibly be put on the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u155	Yes. Then I come to Mr Merkies' comment on the ECB. He asked whether the ECB would not sit too much on the seat of politics. I don't think so. We must also be careful not to sit in the seat of the ECB, as I say to the Socialist Party spokesman, because this may also increase the ECB's tendency to sit in our seats. One of the key elements of the Eurosystem and the European Union is that the ECB goes beyond the euro area alone, even if it has a special responsibility for this, which is an independent ECB, without political influence. Then I get to Juncker's 25 billion for Greece. I have already explained that this is not a new money, but that the existing money is available to the Greeks through all kinds of funds. This has nothing to do with the finalisation of the second aid package. It is a development from the Commission that we must see as a development alongside the completion of the second aid package and not as part of the finalisation of the second package. That's how I understood it. I see that Mr Merkies wants to come back to the ECB.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u156	Yes, exactly, because I would like to make that clear. The Prime Minister says he has no opinion when the ECB sits in the seat of the politician. He can have an opinion on that, can't he? The ECB has said that it wants labour market and pension reforms. Then he's gonna sit in the politician's chair, isn't he?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u157	The ECB is part of the loan system for Greece and part of the Troika. As part of the troika, the ECB is cooperating in making good agreements with the Greeks. In that context, it should be, but the troika is einig und eins.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u158	I would like to reverse it: should the ECB be in the troika for that reason? However, my main question remains: should the ECB interfere with matters which are actually internal in Greece and which concern workers' rights and pensions?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u159	Again, we have billions to stand for in Greece. It seems logical to me that when we talk about the settlement of this problem and leave the Greeks back on their own feet, we also look at the economic situation in Greece. I think it is a good thing that we use all the good-looking heads. Since the ECB has been involved in the lending system, I think it is perfectly logical that we should be part of the group of institutions, formerly known as troika. Then there's the question of migration. Mrs. Maij said it right. It is an integrated proposal. That is how the Netherlands looks at it and that is how we approach it. To be honest, I am not quite sure that, after this European Council, the outcome could be that the Commission is going to look at what the different countries are going to do. That is an important follow-up step. Depending on the outcome of this European Council and on what the JHA Council should do further, we will promote rapid and integrated decision-making on migration. To be honest, I also expect that the decision-making process will be in that sense. Everyone also insists very strongly on it. The debate is not so much about speed but more about the issue of compulsory or non-compulsory. I agree with Mrs Maij when it comes to the United Kingdom. I also felt that I stressed that the social impact, the fairness agenda for work and also the aspects of free movement are all part of the debate with the UK. I also agree with Mr Van 't Wout that this is also an opportunity to promote a number of other elements in the Dutch agenda. I have already mentioned the deepening of the market, the agenda on fewer rules, but also the element mentioned by Mrs Maij, freedom of movement. There are other things like the position of the euro countries versus the non-euro countries. This also affects the position of the city, especially when the number of euro countries becomes so large that a qualifying majority is available. I refer to issues such as the role of national parliaments and the question of whether, in addition to an orange and a yellow card, you should gradually move towards a more red card. All that kind of discussion and themes that the Netherlands has views on offer us a lead, but also for the UK, to strengthen the deal that Europe offers and thus sell the deal in England. That is why I am looking for a way out of the UK's idea against the 27. No, it is an opportunity for the 28 to achieve a Europe that is relevant to its inhabitants. I leave Mr Omtzigt's comments on MH17 undisputed. Anything I say about this in public, or any reaction I have to media reports, is not helpful. I'll leave it to what I said about it in the first term. I take note of Mr Omtzigt's views, but I shall not go into them further. I'll get to the motions. The first motion, Mr Koolmees' motion for a resolution (Doc. 987, I don't recommend it. The initiative goes beyond what the Netherlands wants and also beyond the Charter of Fundamental Rights. We have Article 7 of the EU Treaty, a mechanism for serious human rights violations. The Court of Luxembourg may review the Charter. The existing instruments are therefore sufficient. I'm deceiving that motion. The second motion, in part No. Mr Segers, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party I believe that this is a policy support and therefore unnecessary, because as it stands, that is exactly the way it is. I'm dissuading the motion because it's unnecessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u160	A question on the second motion, that of Mr Segers. I am a little surprised, because it is clear in the recitals that there can be no new agreements involving the sharing of sovereignty. However, this is the intention of the Banking Union and the Capital Markets Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u161	I just looked at the verdict. I think all these recitals are verse two, but perhaps that's because of the speed. In any case, the ruling supports the policy. I'm not reconsidering my judgment on the motion. It won't move. The third motion, Mr Merkies' motion on item No. 989, deals with the forthcoming agreement with Greece. Greece must be given room to restore its economy. I'm not against that, but we can put it another way. Greece simply has to comply with the agreements of the Memorandum of 20 February, the conclusions of the Eurogroup of 20 February. Then there is a possibility of replacing measures with other measures, provided that the same amount is added up. I think Mr Merkies' motion is too broad. That's a risky one, so I'm not gonna recommend it. In his motion in part No. 990 asks Mr Merkies for a stabilisation function. I have already said so many times that we are against it, that the motion is superfluous and therefore discouraged. We do not see the emergence of a stabilisation fund. It does not fit in with our model of monetary union. I'm gonna say it again. But we agree and let's enjoy that moment for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u162	I would just like to say that I have done so on many occasions, and that I now have a motion on which we are in agreement. Others disagree, but it really doesn't matter, because it's always discouraged. It is supportive policy and therefore unnecessary. Anyway, I've been through this before with the Prime Minister. By default, he's giving negative advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u163	No, no! If a motion calls on the cabinet to do things we haven't planned yet and we're okay with it, I'm in favour of such a motion. But if a motion asks us to do something we're already doing, I think she's superfluous. In the interests of the shared benefit that the SP and I see of strengthening the environment, I want to prevent the motion from being copied a thousand times. The motion in part No. Mr Bontes. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Bontes on his excellent report. The same applies to his motion in part No. 992. The motion in part No. Mr Omtzigt and Mr Segers spoke about capital restrictions. That is really up to the Greek authorities, not the euro area, the summit or the euro group. Instead of convincing the Greek authorities of something now, perhaps in the last few hours we should focus on completing the programme if it succeeds. This also offers the best guarantee of taking away the exhibits. That is what I would like to focus my energies on and not on convincing the Greeks who, hopefully, are all sitting in a different room. I advise against this motion. I shall do the same with the motion in part No. 994 by Mr Omtzigt. The report itself says that those issues will only play in phase two from 2018. We've given our appreciation. All the elements will come back when the Commission comes forward with further proposals. I do not know whether it makes sense to turn ourselves into a kind of study club and give endlessly more appreciation of proposals that even the Commission says are not real in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u164	The Commission has not said that these proposals are unrealistic. In fact, she has come up with the Five Presidents' Report to make far-reaching proposals. Some proposals the Prime Minister can find real and others can't, but let us take the democratic process seriously and also respond seriously to proposals. Then we know what the position of the Dutch Government is in that regard. That is why I urge the Prime Minister to indicate when we get a clear appreciation of all the proposals in the Five Presidents' Report, also to avoid us all asking questions about what he thinks of concrete plans.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u165	It's there, in my absolute conviction. A lot of things in the Five Presidents' Report for the longer term haven't worked out. As soon as any of these are further developed by the Commission, we will give them an appreciation. I admit that, but to now devote even more text to all those birds in the air that we have partly tried to shoot out of the sky and partly appreciate, I think it is a waste of the increasingly limited administrative capacity, while in many respects it is still as vague as it can be.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u166	The promise is if there are concrete things to come...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u167	As soon as the Commission threatens to give birth to something concrete, we will immediately come up with an appreciation on parts. If we continue to appreciate the second part of the report, we'll be some kind of study club. Then we really should start guessing what they mean by things.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u168	Then you have just demoted Minister Dijsselbloem to be a member of a study club with vague proposals. I did not think these proposals were vague and, on certain points, I found them very clear, even though I might disagree with them. I urge the Prime Minister to examine them more closely when he first says that elements of the report should be examined. That must be done, because that is what his government wrote to the Chamber today. He should then tell us what has been studied and what the conclusion is. If you want to talk about a common labour market and such, do you want to have a policy view about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u169	By studying more closely, of course, we also mean that we see it when more information is given on what the Commission means by it. The report is concrete in the first few years. It also states that the second part is much more a vision of the longer term. As far as concrete things are concerned, we are already reacting to that in this cabinet response. Think, for example, of what used to be called the shock absorption fund. It's called different now. We don't want that. On other elements, we say that we will have to look at it. But then you must have some suggestions, otherwise I find it complicated. Then you should start guessing what's meant. My proposal to Mr Omtzigt would therefore be that we agree to give it an appreciation as soon as there is more concreteness on parts.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u170	We shall vote tomorrow at the end of the afternoon on the motions tabled, so only after the debate on the revision of the tax system, but before the Prime Minister arrives in Brussels.
