ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-2.u1	Mr. Chairman. Last weekend there was an alarming article in the Volkskrant. Two mayors from Brabant ring the bell. They are subject to increasing undermining by criminals of authority. Clear language is not shunned by these mayors. Criminals would infiltrate the public administration. Mayors are systematically threatened. Municipal councils are affected and there is fear among politicians and civil servants. It even says that a mayor fears the fate of his own grandchildren, if nothing changes. That's why I'm asking questions to the Home Secretary. I'm asking these questions to him because he's the guardian of the public administration. I have the following questions. Does the Minister recognize this image? Is the problem outlined really as serious as it is proposed, both in nature and in scope? Does it occur in particular in certain parts of our country? My final question is perhaps obvious: what is the Minister going to do? I await the answers with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-2.u2	I give the floor to the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations to answer these questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-2.u3	Mr. Chairman. I welcome these questions because I share Mr Van Oosten's great concern. There is a high risk of undermining activities. I myself think you can conclude that there are undermining activities. Sometimes they come from the real estate sector, sometimes they're drug-related. Think about pot growing, biker gangs and trafficking in women. There are therefore various criminal backgrounds that affect and can undermine the administration. We must also be afraid of a waterbed effect. It makes no sense at all to solve it in one municipality, because then one goes to other municipalities. It's on my retina. Yesterday there was a consultation with the King's Commissioners, in which this subject was also on the agenda. The King's Commissioners confirmed that they have concerns about this phenomenon in their provinces. The Minister of V and J will, of course, mainly act when it comes to crime and how to deal with it. The police and the D.A.'s office are on the scene. However, the subject of the threatened drivers and the way in which we should deal with them is a concern for me, as Minister of the Interior. I think it is an important policy point for the coming period. I will organise round tables with mayors, to make this topic more open to discussion. In the article that Mr Van Oosten referred to, I noticed that one of the two mayors said that he sometimes spoke to a colleague who said that this kind of thing did not occur to him. That mayor wondered whether this was not a denial phase or a look away. In the field of safe working in the public sector, step one is therefore always to face and discuss that it can happen around you. Let's start with that step. Then I can also give a more informed answer to the question of how often it occurs, including from the mayors' perspective. Then we can also take further action on it. I can add one more thing. I recently offered training to 24 mayors from Limburg and North Brabant. They have also followed this training, with the theme "how to deal with threats and intimidation." So this is exactly the point. The evaluation showed that the mayors experienced this training as extremely useful. So I can report that this programme will become available to all mayors in the Netherlands. It will be paid from BZK's budget and offered through the Dutch Society of Mayors.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-2.u4	I thank the Minister for the first answer to the questions I have asked. I think it is very good that the Minister should take his responsibilities and organise a round table to engage in dialogue, and to discuss with each other how we can deal with this and to what extent the nature and extent is really as serious as is outlined. Because if we do, we really need to intervene, because public administration in our country will be under terrible pressure. I'd like to make another quote from the article. I may have put the mayors in a somewhat negative light, but they do have the right drive, because they want to hunt down the criminals, they want to get rid of them and they want to smoke them out. The Minister of the Interior must also take responsibility for this. I'm glad to hear that's what he wants. In order to prevent us from discussing it now and then from doing so, I would like to ask whether the Chamber can get a feedback, in the form of a letter or otherwise, from which we can trace what has been discussed and what specific action points might result.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-2.u5	First of all, I think it is good to tackle it across the board, precisely in order to avoid the waterbed effect, because one immediately leaves when one notices that in a municipality the ground gets warm under the feet. To the specific question on feedback is the answer I give. So I'm here with a letter on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-2.u6	When drivers are intimidated, we have one advantage: we know who the bad guys are. Drivers and detectives in Brabant say these are cases we can solve, if we only have the capacity, the money and the means to detect. But now they're often on the shelf. I think it is fantastic that the Minister wants to hold a round table, but that will not scare these bad guys very much. So is the Minister prepared to work with the Minister of Justice to ensure that there is sufficient investigative capacity so that the criminals who are known and the things they are doing and the intimidations they are doing are dealt with?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-2.u7	It is good to distinguish between two different themes, which also need to be addressed with two different portfolios. One is to equip the mayors in such a way that they can cope with the intimidation, that they know what to do with it, how to deal with it, where to discuss it, and that they realize that they do not have to let it happen. That is the responsibility I draw towards me. The question of detective capacity is really a question for the Justice Department. I'd be happy to pass it on to my colleague.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-2.u8	If you pass on that question, the Chamber would like to be informed. Can you promise me that too?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-2.u9	I have already promised a letter and I can just imagine sending it with my colleague in the Justice Department.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-2.u10	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-2.u11	I would like to go further on this point, because it is impossible for the underworld to take over from the legal government. We're gonna have to go hard on that. Fortunately, two mayors, real jannies, have raised this issue. I hope, however, that the Minister, as the guardian of his mayors, will take it a little more broadly and actually involve the Minister of Security and Justice, because they are also police officers. I also hope that he will involve the Minister of Finance, and it is also about the FIOD and the Tax Administration, which are looking at how to deal with it through that route. I also hope that he will look through his own ministry to see how administrative measures can be better implemented. In short, it really requires a broader approach than just a Home Affairs approach. I therefore ask the Minister to take up this direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-2.u12	That seems to me to be an excellent idea, and that is what I will do.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-2.u13	We too would like to involve this last aspect more firmly. We have often asked for strong police capacity in Brabant because we see that it is very tight and that it is no longer possible to handle it. We remember the burned-down town hall in Waalre: the moment they tried to deal with crime, the town hall went on fire. If the Minister is organizing that round table, will he really do so together with V and J, to ensure that the common approach can take shape? What Mr Recourt is saying is right, but do it together at the round table.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-2.u14	That seems to me to be a logical follow-up to that question, so I admit it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-2.u15	Thank you to Mr Van Oosten for asking this question. Crime must be combated as hard as possible. If mayors say that they can't do enough, it's good that the Home Secretary comes to the rescue. In the same interview we also read a stigmatizing statement by the mayor of Gilze-Rijen in particular. He puts 2,400 Turkish Dutch away and holds them jointly responsible for the crime that is taking place there. In our opinion, the mayor is projecting his powerlessness on a whole group of people. Does the Minister find such a stigmatizing statement justified? And if not, what's he gonna do about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-2.u16	I have already pointed out in my first reply that the origin of this crime is diverse. I have also listed several issues: the real estate sector, drug-related crime and motorcycle gangs. These are very diverse groups. I don't think we should assume it's in one corner. The problem must therefore be taken seriously over the full breadth.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-2.u17	This is very little. I also regret that this Minister is standing here. In fact, the Minister of Security and Justice should have been here, because I think he could mean a lot more in that whole process. What do these people have at a round table when it comes to the fight against organized crime? That's what you have to do. It's an integral approach. The D.A. needs to be involved or involved. There's a lot more police to go to those areas. How exactly is this minister going to do that? How's he gonna stop organized crime from taking over there? How is he going to prevent infiltration from the underworld to the top world, even to the board?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-2.u18	First of all, I'm standing here because the Chamber invited me. I do indeed think that the issue that has just been mentioned is worthy of full attention. If the subject now moves towards tackling organised crime, it is indeed better to discuss it with the Minister of Justice. However, I think it is valuable that attention should be paid to the fact that the mayors, on the basis of their own responsibilities, indicate that this is putting pressure on the municipal administration and that they also have their own responsibility in this regard. I have just answered the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-2.u19	The person who is speaking in the interview is Mr Boelhouwer. We remember him, because he's an old colleague of ours. He's a cheerful and tidy man, but the things he says are certainly alarming. What he's sketching is pretty apocalyptic after all. The underworld infiltrates the public administration and in neighborhoods lays the cards. Mayors are systematically threatened. Those aren't just noises. It's not about throwing in a window. Public administration in the Netherlands is in danger of being taken over. That's what this minister's about. It is therefore very good that he is here, but a round table discussion is very lean when I quote these sounds from the party colleague of this minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-2.u20	I fully recognize the seriousness. I have therefore accepted the word 'undermining' in my reply. That is indeed much more than throwing a window somewhere or doing something that isn't right. That's worrying, very worrying. For this reason, we are first in conversation with mayors to map the problem. I have already said that I will report to the Chamber on this and that I will do so in consultation with colleagues in the Justice and Finance sectors, if the tax authorities are in the picture. We can then come back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-2.u21	Thank you for your commitments, your coming to the Chamber and your answers, of course.
