ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u1	I would like to welcome all those present in the Chamber and in the public gallery and, of course, those who follow this debate in a different way, particularly the Minister of Finance. We have agreed a four-minute speaking time per group. Eleven participants have come forward. The first speaker is Mr Nijboer of the PvdA, who has requested this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. We all recognise the images from just before the financial crisis. The top financial managers of the Dutch insurers and banks were in the Lower House. They would drive the economy forward in the run-up to the people. They had top people and takeover plans all over the world; they would conquer the world. Of course, this included top talent and market-based salaries. Politicians who said something about that were nags. That was a mild qualification. ING-Topman Tilmant made the most of it by warning: if you go on whining about it and if you say anything about this culture, we will leave abroad. Only a few months later, the banks and insurers came to the government for support. Due to reckless behaviour, they had to apply for state aid or for the infusion of state guarantees. Society paid a huge price. The unemployment rate has risen enormously. As a result, we have the biggest financial and economic crisis since the Second World War. Over the past few weeks we have heard the same stories from bankers: don't complain about rewards; it's a search for scarce talent; we measure ourselves with international peers; it comes at a price. I had a huge déjà vu feeling. The PvdA really wonders if bankers really haven't learned anything at all. In the coalition agreement, it was agreed that the financial sector in the Netherlands would undergo far-reaching reform. European banking supervision has been introduced to strengthen supervision of the financial sector. That was missing in the past. Higher buffers are required so that the account is not passed on to the taxpayer if it goes wrong. There is a legal anchoring of the duty of care, so that people can no longer be fooled. There is a banker's oath with disciplinary law, which was only introduced on 1 April of this year. We know the strictest bonus legislation in Europe. Despite this, the PvdA concludes that we are far from there: a healthy, serviceable financial sector that is not serving itself, but to society, the entrepreneurs, people who need a mortgage and people whose savings simply need to be managed properly. This requires a new, ambitious future agenda with higher buffers. We have had huge debates here in the Chamber. Four percent buffers are enforced, but that's not enough. That's just a first step. The banker's oath entered into on 1 April must not only be a formal paper or a formal oath, but also lead the conduct of the sector. There must be a counterpower against the reasoning of directors, who compare themselves with peers, who look at the median and then say that they are always a bit underneath it. Everyone keeps saying that, it keeps going up. We have seen this over the past few years: the drivers earn 20 times, 30 times, 40 times, 50 times as much as an employee earns at ING. This must be counter-forced by workers, who must also have a say in the rewards of their summit. There's plenty to do. SMEs face derivatives problems. We will soon have a hearing with SMEs in the Lower House about the special management. The loan's stalling. Consumers' usury policies have still not been resolved; people still do not have an appropriate solution and safe and reliable payments. There's work to be done. That's what bankers need to focus on. That requires a moral-ethical compass, another moral-ethical compass. I'm coming to the ABN. The PvdA considers that the ABN summit is responsible for a decision that could not be defended and cannot be defended. A ton extra while you fire employees and use the zero line is morally reprehensible behavior. The Governing Council has abandoned it after considerable pressure, but it would of course have been better if he had never decided to do so and listened to the Minister. The PvdA wants the Minister's promise, the assurance, that the salaries at ABN will not increase again and that no new bonuses will be paid at the top while we still have shares in that company. The Board of Directors and the Supervisory Board have violated the trust of employees, of society and of politics in the bank. They have a great responsibility to restore this trust.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u3	Let me turn to that last sentence, because this was a motion of censure against the ABN summit. Does Mr Nijboer agree with me that the whole ABN summit should actually be replaced by a new, fresh club?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u4	No, I disagree with Mr Van Dijck. On behalf of the PvdA, I have made a very harsh assessment of the ton of salary increases that have been made. You shouldn't do everything that isn't forbidden by law. That also does not fit in with the behaviour we want from bankers. I was very harsh in my judgment on that raise of a ton. I called the summit to come back to that. That's what's done. That is a first step that was crucial to restoring confidence. A Commissioner has also left, and I understand that. It is at the top that there is now to restore the broken trust of employees and society.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u5	You are expressing a vote of no confidence towards the summit. You say that the trust of employees and society has been violated. That's a vote of no confidence. That is why I am asking you whether this summit should go home, because that would normally mean a motion of censure. You say: no, now it is important that confidence is regained. The question is, of course, whether it is enough for them to say, "Wrong, thank you! We withdraw that €100,000 and everything goes back to the way it was." Is that enough for you to put that censure motion back in your pocket?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u6	I have made a very clear assessment of that decision to raise a ton of salaries. I found that indefenable and morally reprehensible. I called the summit on the day itself to refrain from doing so. That is what has been done in the end. That does not alter the fact that confidence has been violated, but it is a first step towards recovery. A Commissioner has also quit. I understand that, too. I do not think it will help to demand, as politicians, that they all leave and that new people are sought before the summit. I think it's at the top to restore the broken trust.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u7	We have often talked here about the fixed salaries of bank directors. Mr Nijboer has often made himself angry about this: now for the tonne of wage increases, but also last year for the increase for senior management. Every time I propose to him to make agreements on this and to set rules for this, he pops up and starts talking about bonus legislation. Is he willing to make agreements on the permanent salaries of bank directors?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u8	I have just asked the Minister whether he wants to ensure that the salaries of the ABN summit do not increase further as long as we have shares in that company. Recently, that tonne has been reversed, but I also want guarantees for the future, as long as we have ABN shares. This is not just about bonuses, because we have regulated them in the law, also for senior management, partly thanks to an amendment that we tabled together when the bonus legislation was discussed. I ask the Minister not to allow that increase.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u9	This applies to ABN AMRO, and only as long as the company is governed by the government. If it were to go back to the stock market at some point, it wouldn't apply. There are other examples. We also had ING here, with 28% raise for Ralph Hammers. Actually, they don't think that's enough. Is Mr Nijboer just okay with that and let it go? Or is he in favour of making arrangements here about the fixed remunerations of bank directors?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u10	We have had a whole debate on Europe's strictest bonus legislation. It's accepted, too. That debate was also about compensation for fixed remuneration. Mr Merkies knows my position in that. As far as I am concerned, this really should not be done in the way it is done with ING. At the same time, ING is also firing flex workers, in addition to ordinary employees, because they would have become too expensive, we read today. That's outrageous behavior! If bankers continue to do so, we must tighten up the law further. I agree with Mr Merkies. I also received assurances about this from the Minister in the debate. Mr Merkies knows that very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u11	Mr Nijboer says very clearly: no bonuses or wage increases for bankers as long as the Dutch State holds one share of ABN AMRO. I guess it's okay after that. Anyway, does that mean that he's against paying out any bonuses to the board of directors but also to senior management, who's involved in and working hard on that IPO? Does that mean that they can't get shares, raises, phantom stocks or other incentives during the stock market or because of the stock market?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u12	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u13	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u14	I listened with interest to Mr Nijboer's contribution. He rightly places great emphasis on the failure of the ABN AMRO summit. It's not with both legs in this world. But I didn't hear about the minister's role. The State is 100% shareholder. Then I find it striking that in spring, apart from 'I find this morally reprehensible', it was not also said 'as a shareholder, we do not agree with this'. What does Mr Nijboer think of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u15	I have read and heard very well, including in the oral question, what the position of the Minister is. Mr Van Slingelandt of ABN's Supervisory Board has also confirmed this. It has clearly, time and again as the sole shareholder indicated towards the ABN summit: do not do it; I think it is unwise; I do not think it is moral to defend; take your responsibility and abandon it. The supervisory board and the board of directors have insisted not to do so because they had the law on their side. That's how it turned out. It would have been wise for the Supervisory Board to listen to the Minister. In fact, it is incomprehensible that he did not.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u16	Mr Nijboer always talks about grasshopper capitalists and hedge funds. These are investors who buy a small percentage of the shares and then can empty an entire company and force it to sell. Now the State holds 100% of the shares. It is now clear to me what the legal situation is. Legal was the top of his law, but as a shareholder you can still say: I do not agree; I do not agree with the increase in salaries. Since the ABN summit has abandoned it after it has been threatened to postpone the IPO, shouldn't we have done so a year ago? Shouldn't the Minister have just said "I'm morally outraged" but also "I'm just not doing it; I'm not signing up for this; this is unacceptable"?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u17	The Minister has indicated this in similar terms. In fact, ABN AMRO was brought to the brink of collapse by TCI, which had 1% of its shares. That's what people were listening to. Here, a very heavy advice from someone with 100% of the shares has simply gone in the wind because the minister's predecessor had already legally delineated it. Mr Klaver knows that, too. It could've happened. This policy was adopted in 2012. They have given up on a voluntary basis. The summit did not listen to the heavy appeal made several times by the Minister. That was unwise and irresponsible. This has done a great deal of damage to the bank, but I am committed to laying down the responsibilities where they lie, and that is at the top of the Board of Directors and Supervisory Board at ABN AMRO.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u18	There is a difference between unwise and unacceptable. There's a really big space in there. I have a question about the role of Mr Nijboer in this whole process. On 20 March ABN AMRO's annual report came out. In it was the increase in salaries. The reconstructions in all the newspapers show that Mr Nijboer has personally called the Minister to say that this is acceptable to the Labour Party. Is this true and when did he do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u19	It is not my custom to share phone calls with colleagues, but that Friday I told both the Minister and Mr Zalm himself that I found that tons of morally reprehensible, that I did not think that was appropriate for serving banking, that I did not think that was a sensible matter and that I would also publicly express it. That's what I did that day.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u20	Is it true that that was already at the Council of Ministers? This would partly explain the Minister's turn for the cameras later that afternoon.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u21	I think it was already known in the morning. Mr Koolmees is now giving us all the clues, but I have taken a very clear position on this all day. The PvdA thinks it is wrong, if you fire people or ask them for the zero line, to own yourself a ton. Legally, it may be, but morally, it's not acceptable. Eventually, that barrel was returned. It's taken some social pressure to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u22	Mr Nijboer defends his minister by saying that he said to the bankers that it was not good. Does Mr Nijboer think that the Minister has been too weak in this and not decisive enough? Did he play the game with the bankers by skipping between Room and bankers?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u23	No, I don't. That was shared with the Chamber during oral Question Time and in replying to written questions. Mr Van Slingelandt, chairman of ABN AMRO's Supervisory Board, has also confirmed this. The Minister has been crystal clear that he considered this decision to be unwise. He really didn't recommend it, but they persisted in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u24	If the sole shareholder strongly advises against anything and the bankers do it anyway, then there can be two things going on: whether the bankers have fun with the minister or the minister is playing a game. Is the Minister strong enough to send the House's signal to the bankers?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u25	I would like to make a third statement, which I think is the right one and which was also made during the hearing. That's the legalistic attitude of bankers: I'm entitled to it, so I'll take it. That is no longer the attitude society expects from bankers. That really has to change. We've agreed an oath for that, but we can't force every choice at the top of banks here. We are laying down the morals with regard to bonuses, especially when it comes to the question of what we still think is acceptable. That indicates a direction, but if we do not act on it, we have a problem. That problem within the sector is now very serious. That is why we must continue to make the financial sector healthy. That ambitious agenda has been deployed, but we are far from there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u26	I'll be back on March 20th and what happened after that. Mr Nijboer indicated that he himself had been in contact with the Minister and even with Mr Zalm. It is clear that Mr Nijboer and the PvdA are against higher rewards. I share that view. The difference with this case is that there's a note from the minister that the IPO didn't go through. That is a great consequence that was attached to it. Did Mr Nijboer urge this minister or the cabinet to postpone the admission of the stock exchange if the board itself did not want to waive that bonus?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u27	I made my point of view very clear, both with Mr Zalm and with the Minister. If you take such a firm stance, I think it's nice that you let the people involved know. I said that I expected from the summit and that it was very important that that tonne should be returned. That's what happened in the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u28	That wasn't my question. This was the answer already given to Mr Koolmees. I explicitly asked Mr Nijboer whether he or his group had insisted that the IPO should be postponed. For these salaries did not come back voluntarily; that had already been shown throughout the year before. The Minister had already insisted on this three or four times. Has Mr Nijboer himself called for the IPO to be postponed?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u29	You yourself have been able to see, not only in the Chamber, but also in society, that if there is a social commotion, this will not help the support for an IPO. The cabinet found that there were not enough peace and trust. This certainly didn't help. In fact, it was one of the reasons put forward by the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u30	I am surprised that Mr Nijboer picks up the phone, in the back rooms with Salmon and calls the minister and says: boys, as PvdA we do not accept that. Apparently, the PvdA, Mr Nijboer, managed to get that €100,000 off the table, which the minister himself, as a 100% shareholder, failed to achieve in a whole year. What did Mr Nijboer say in those phone calls? What did he threaten with? Apparently he manages to get that €100,000 off the table on his own and this minister doesn't for a year. That's incomprehensible. What was said in those calls and what did Mr Nijboer threaten with? Is there another file? Is there something else going on?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u31	I don't want to talk about threatening or anything. Even if you, as a MP, take a firm position against the summit of ABN AMRO, I think it is nice that you let us know in advance at the same summit. That's a proper course of action. I did. I said: I find it truly morally reprehensible what you have done and I expect you to turn in that barrel. That's what I'm angry about. I transferred it myself first. Then I brought that out. That's the position. I have asked here and there, also personally, to give up the barrel. This does not tolerate the zero line of employees. I really don't think this is possible. That's what I transferred, and I think it's the right thing to do. I am not accountable at all to Mr Van Dijck for whom I am calling.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u32	No, but the point is that Mr Nijboer alone gets a ton off the table and this minister, 100% shareholder of the bank, says for a year that he does not agree with it, that it is socially irresponsible and that it is detrimental to the bank. Still the top says: climb up a tree, shareholder, we'll do it anyway! Then Mr. Nijboer picks up the phone and says, "Gerrit, what are you gonna make me do?" And then the barrel's off the table. That's not normal. Mr Nijboer has threatened something which Mr Zalm has said: 'Oh dear, if that happens, it is better... It has to do with the IPO or anything else.' Something stinks here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u33	I have been absolutely clear to all those involved about what I found and what I find. There's no light in that. Mr Van Dijck may try to smell anything, but it is quite clear what the PvdA's view has been recently.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u34	I would simply like to repeat the question put by my two colleagues: did Mr Nijboer ask the Minister or Mr Zalm to postpone the admission of the stock market until that tonne was increased?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u35	I told you I'd ask you to give up that barrel. I said that I was angry about that and I didn't think it was defendable.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u36	That is what Mr Nijboer has said three times. We understand that this has been the case. However, the question here is whether the cancellation of the IPO was also discussed in the discussion with Mr Zalm and in the discussion with Minister Dijsselbloem.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u37	I don't have that authority at all. The Minister has made an independent assessment of the lack of peace and confidence in taking that decision. It is, of course, an issue that did not contribute to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u38	Mr Nijboer is now avoiding the question eight times. The question is very clear: did he call for a postponement of the IPO, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u39	If you set up a bank on your own, you want to be a servant banking and behavior that fits in with it. Putting employees on the zero line, firing employees and taking on a ton, I don't think that's appropriate at all. And that doesn't fit in with such a decision either.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u40	I hesitate to give you the floor, Mr Koolmees. We can all repeat this question 50 times, but I have really heard an answer. I'll give you the floor, but we're not gonna do that round again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u41	I'll make one last attempt. I am going to rephrase it, and I am not going to put it with the Minister, but with Mr Nijboer himself. Did the Labour Party find it unacceptable that, if fixed salaries were increased by a tonne, the IPO would continue?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u42	I really felt that the barrel couldn't be defended and that it had to be taken off the table. I note that this has happened in the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u43	The central question...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u44	One last attempt, you said.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u45	The central question is whether the Labour Party's group has linked this to the decision on the IPO. Yes or no? That's been asked five times now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u46	I have expressed my view very firmly. I don't think it goes with serving banking. Prerequisite for the PvdA in a general sense was.... and is still.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Of course, this didn't help. It is really the minister and the cabinet who decide when a bank is set up and when the decision-making process is ready. That's not up to the PvdA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u47	Mrs Schouten, you have a question on this point? I understand that Mr Klaver wants to ask a question about something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u48	What does Mr Nijboer mean by "unacceptable"? Does he mean "unacceptable" as a cry? Or does he mean "unacceptable" in the sense of: if that were to happen, would there be consequences?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u49	I mean by "not acceptable" that I find it socially and morally reprehensible and that I would call on the board of directors to refrain from doing so. The general public supported that. The trade unions also supported this. I believe that there is also a broad consensus in the Chamber on the fact that this decision should not have been taken. I've been trying to make that clear. It has taken some time, but in the end it has been decided to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u50	The fact that Mr Nijboer is not simply saying yes or no gives me the impression that there really is more going on here. If Mr Nijboer is wise, he himself will clarify what exactly was or was not said. Then we can get back to the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u51	I've made myself clear. I have given my views on this very clearly. Mrs Schouten has also heard it very clearly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u52	I have the feeling that the album sticks around a little bit and that answers are given, but at least not to the questions that have been asked. I do have a question about the IPO of ABN AMRO, in line with what it was about just now. I've heard the cabinet say ABN AMRO can go to the fair this year. How does the PvdA view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u53	The cabinet has postponed the decision on the setting-up of ABN AMRO on its own. There had to be enough peace and trust. It is up to the Cabinet to assess when that is the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u54	Like many of us, I have heard a lot about ABN AMRO in the last two weeks. I heard from you that the postponement of the IPO is good, because work had to be done to restore confidence. It took some rest before you brought a couch to the market. When was this decision taken? A week and a half ago? Two weeks ago, the cabinet said: we're going to stop the IPO now, we're not going to make a decision about it now. But two weeks later, the world would be completely different and the bank could go to the stock market this year. What has changed, Mr. Nijboer? And does the PvdA think it's wise that the bank should go to the market this year?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u55	I think that peace and trust were not sufficiently present, has been found Chamber-wide. The Chamber agreed to that conclusion. It is really up to the cabinet to decide when there is peace and trust again. I see, however, that an important step has been taken by the Management Board, a step which had not yet been taken, namely to abandon that tonne. No one really understood that. Everyone was angry about that. I couldn't do that. That is a first and crucial step for the PvdA Group to regain confidence, but more is needed. There's been damage at the bank. There has been damage in relation to the employees. There has been damage in relation to society. I have gone into this in detail. Trust must be regained. It is up to the Management Board and the Supervisory Board to do so. And then, of course, there are the substantive conditions that the PvdA Group lays down for the bank to be placed on its own feet. It is more than just rewards in life.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u56	Mr. Chairman. In the past period almost no day passed or misery came out about ABN AMRO. It was a long agony in the run-up to Easter, but it was one that caused the ABN AMRO summit entirely to itself. I assume the minister saw the hearing the day before yesterday. What did he think of this disgusting display? Did he think it was a disgusting display? What did he think of ABN AMRO's Supervisory Board? This supervisory board has no regard for what is going on in society and its own staff, and it does not seem to have any regard for internal control, which is so important to deal with conflicts of interest, money laundering, fraud and so on. Does the Minister consider this board of Commissioners to be appropriate? Does he think that this board of Commissioners should remain in office? This supervisory board still believes that a tonne should be added to the driver's salary. I asked questions about this two weeks ago to the Minister of Finance. He actually says: I can't do anything, the Chamber has agreed to this. Last Sunday I heard Mr Zijlstra say: it is up to the Chamber, the Chamber should shine a little. I don't think so, Mr Zijlstra! Three years ago, the SP fought hard against the part of the law on the basis of which that 20% increase, that tonne added, would be possible. We have tabled an amendment to undo that. Five parties voted in favour and five parties voted against. If the VVD had voted in favour, that amendment would have made it and we would not have been here today to discuss the rewards of ABN AMRO drivers. Those are the facts. What can we learn from this? Kilian Wawoe said this week: you have to accept it or you have to regulate it. I made proposals six months ago to regulate it. Is the Minister prepared to regulate permanent salaries? Six months ago, he said he wasn't, because he was confident that the directors themselves would take that responsibility and hold back. But at that moment he knew for six months that that tonne would be added to ABN AMRO. A year ago, on 7 March, he promised to defend that tonne at the ABN AMRO summit. In any case, that is clear from Mr Zalm's letter. In a response to this, the Minister does not disprove it. In fact, he says that the discussion on remuneration policy has been resolved to his satisfaction. Why didn't he show any displeasure in that letter? Why did he agree to it and didn't he say during that conversation: don't do it, this is unacceptable? And then why didn't he tell the Chamber that the barrel would be added? I would like to draw the Minister's attention to his active duty of information to the Chamber. The Minister himself says that he did say it, but could have said it a little louder. Where did he say that? Did he say it so softly that the stenographers didn't hear it here and didn't write it down? Why did he wait another year for him to show his anger at this massive increase? I just can't reach that. Finally, I would like to ask the Minister whether he really wants to push through the IPO this year? I would advise not to do so, precisely because that social discussion is now taking place. More than half of the population supports the SP's plan to keep the bank in government hands and make it an example bank. I ask the Minister to pick up those signals and reopen the discussion on the future of ABN AMRO.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u57	I still have a question about that state bank. Apart from the fact that not bringing ABN AMRO to the market is going to cost about 15, 16 billion, so €1,000 per Dutchman, it is also very doubtful whether a state bank will show such good results. If you look at what happened a few years ago in countries like Germany and Spain, or look at banks like Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac in the United States, you will see that a lot of problems arise with state banks. Did Mr Merkies look at that? Did he take that into consideration?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u58	You can always take one example out of it. Then let me get Lehman Brothers out. That wasn't a government bank. So you can always get a couch out where things went badly. I think there are also very good examples. We have, of course, had the Postbank in the Netherlands. By the way, ABN AMRO is now also making a profit. Even if he stays in government hands, you get that dividend income every year.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u59	I would almost call ABN AMRO a business bank. A large part of the balance sheet consists of business loans, to SMEs and large companies. When banks come in government hands, however, you see that you are given political direction. The banks then have to invest in projects that are politically desirable, for example in houses, such as in the United States, or in all kinds of roads and real estate, such as in Spain. Then it's gonna go wrong. That's what we've learned from the past few years. With that political direction, you have to be very careful. That's just the bubble for the next crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u60	Indeed, I am not in favour of a model like the Spanish Cajas. By the way, the bank isn't the way it used to be. Of course, it has become a much smaller and more local bank. There's been a lot of rejection. If Mr Koolmees says that certain activities still need to be divested, this can be done, but I am concerned that there is the possibility for consumers to opt for a bank in government hands and that that bank can set an example for other banks.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u61	With regard to the last thing Mr Merkies said, that the bank has not been what it has been for a long time, I would like to ask the following question. What does Mr Merkies think about the board now earning six tons and the CEO earning seven and a half tonnes? I have never heard Mr Merkies say that that would be too much, whereas that is the same as when the bank was four times the size, seven years ago under Rijkman Groenink. Why doesn't the SP go along with it to get those salaries down?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u62	It is incredible that I hear this from Mr Van Dijck. I did not mention him just now when I spoke about that amendment, but also the PVV voted against it. So also the PVV could have made a difference on its own. If the PVV had voted in favour, we would not have had this whole discussion today.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u63	That's true!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u64	Mr Koolmees has voted in favour, so that is true.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u65	But that wasn't my question. The PVV wants the CEO of ABN AMRO to earn no more than this minister. But the SP agrees that the CEO earns five times as much as this minister. The question is of course why a CEO should earn the same as in the time of Rijkman Groenink, since the bank is four or five times smaller than seven years ago. Why doesn't the SP participate in bringing those salaries down to the ministerial salary according to the Top Income Standards Act? Why does the SP hold on to current salaries?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u66	I fully agree with Mr Van Dijck. Actually, they're civil servants. In that respect, you could just set the beaming standard. I think that's very reasonable. What I do not understand, however, is that, while Mr Van Dijck could have made a difference on his own, he is now addressing me in this way. That's the reverse world, isn't it? The PVV could have ensured that we had not had this whole discussion today.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u67	Mr Merkies says that it should remain a state bank, and that it is so profitable. I also understand that the SP is in favour of such a state bank giving higher interest rates on savings and lower interest rates on loans. What does he think this is gonna do with the profits and the dividends?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u68	It's all about giving them a reasonable interest rate. They don't have to make a lot out of it. They must set an example for the rest of the banks, just like the Postbank did at the time. The Postbank created an exciting function which meant that there was more competition. Then you have the choice as a consumer. You can go to a bank owned by shareholders, the ING, to a cooperative bank, the Rabobank, and to a government bank. Then you leave the choice to the people themselves and you have the most diversity.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u69	Mr Merkies points out that this state bank does not have to make so much money, but that is not an answer to my question. I asked what it's gonna do with the profits and the dividends. I think they go down if they don't have to be earned.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u70	Of course, you have to compete in the market, but it's about not setting the wrong example. We can do something about that if we make this an example bank. It's not just about interest, it's about the bank's behavior. So you can set an example for other banks and people have a choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u71	Mr. Chairman. Three weeks ago, the bomb burst. Then it became known that the ABN summit had given itself €100,000 salary. €100,000 above six tons, while employees are on the zero line and 1,000 employees have lost their jobs. This minister also participated and found it morally reprehensible and inexplicable. But legally and administratively, he couldn't argue with it. What a weak bite! What a politically correct slogan for this minister's conduct. For more than a year, he knew that salaries would go up by a ton. And then afterwards do a little remodeling about this news? The same play he performed during the post-levy of 1.1 billion we received from Brussels. This Minister has clearly missed his calling. He should've gone to the stage academy. The Minister even calls it harmful to the bank, but at the same time promises to defend this increase. How is this rhyme? How can you, as a shareholder, agree to something that is harmful to the bank? How can you defend this with good decency? Why is it that the Minister has not intervened before? As a shareholder, he could have torpedoed this decision. If necessary, he could have sent the commissioners home. As a legislator, he could have strengthened the law by saying, for example, that no compensation for the bonus ban. But he did nothing and even promised to defend it. What are the Minister's words still worth? If he found it really morally reprehensible and really damaging to the bank, why didn't he intervene? The minister finally called off the IPO after all the social uproar, but that was for the stage, because less than a week later he says that the bank has to go to the stock market this year. So, what's that blow-off worth? Why does the Minister call off the IPO first and then say that it should take place this year anyway? Was it just to do him the salary increase or was it pure power play of, as it turns out, Henk Nijboer? ABN AMRO did not pay any more than the salary increase. During the hearing it appeared that they regretted the fuss, not the salary increase. They're right behind that. What does the Minister think of this attitude? They turned it back on the fuss. How will the Minister prevent this kind of exorbitant salary increase from happening in the future? During the hearing, the President of the Supervisory Board said he was proud to say that the board "has allowed banking interests to outweigh individual rights." It shouldn't get any weirder. The chairman of the Supervisory Board praises the board for having put the banking interest first. What does the Minister think of this reaction? Why doesn't he just send these alien types home? They don't get it at all. They have no moral compass or feeling at all. Without the 30 billion of taxpayers, the bank would no longer have existed and no one would have had a job. Because of them, we have been in a deep recession for five years. And to think that they can continue on the old track. They feel like wolves on Wallstreet: untouchable and indomitable. Two things have been made clear in the last two weeks: the citizens are not going to take it anymore and the decency has to go back. Citizens are looking for a decent, decent bank where they can bring their savings and receive loans at reasonable rates of interest. In that respect, I go a long way with Mr Merkies when he talks about a state savings bank. In addition, the sector lacks self-cleaning capacity. The moral compass that is spoken of is missing once and for all. The Minister constantly makes a moral appeal to the sector, also to ensure that permanent salaries do not increase. But what do we see? They do not care; the ING top man increases his salary by 28%. Therefore, the PVV proposes a balanced salary growth throughout the wage building. If the staff is on the zero line, the board is also on the zero line. Individual bonuses should not exceed 20% of what I advocated last time, and there should be no compensation for the bonus ceiling, as in Sweden and Belgium.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u72	Mr. Chairman. Last Tuesday there was a hearing with the bankers. We saw two worlds: the world of society and the world of boardrooms. The Minister has tried to bring these two worlds together. On the one hand, he said: I am morally outraged, I do not think this is possible. On the other hand, he has done nothing to stop the decision. I'm sorry about that. He shouldn't have tried to bring these two worlds together. He should have chosen not for the world of boardrooms but for society. My first question to the Minister is why, when it became known that salaries would be increased, he, as a shareholder, did not say: this is not happening, I do not accept this. Mr Nijboer spoke just now about the 'legalistic attitude' of the bankers. A legalistic attitude of: it is allowed, so we do it. That's reprehensible and bad. Maybe politics has too legalistic an attitude: it is allowed, so we are not doing anything about it. I don't think that's enough. You could have said as a shareholder: I do not agree with this, because I do not think that is right. I also think that this would have been the only right decision when this Minister heard about it. I'd like to get a reaction to this. Then inform the Chamber. Why didn't the Minister make it clear in a debate in March? It wasn't very clear, by the way, that it was also on ABN that we had to take into account that, in the case of state-supported institutions, salaries could go up? Why wasn't the Chamber immediately informed when the decision was taken? Then there's the board of directors. I was really surprised that this cabinet said: we trust the ABN AMRO summit. Last Tuesday they were here in the Chamber and I found their answers shocking. I wonder exactly what this minister is basing his trust in that supervisory board. When the President of the Supervisory Board explains that the world is made up of markets, I really wonder if you are standing with both your legs in this society. The world is not made up of markets, the world is made up of people, of society. If you think the world is made up of markets, you're going to compare yourself to your peers in the City or Singapore or New York. Then you're gonna think, "I make less than all the other bankers." However, when you're in society, you think: well, 25 times the average isn't that bad a salary and maybe we should be a little reluctant and a little modest, because we've been saved by the taxpayer, by society, by the people in this country. My confidence in that board of directors has not increased further in recent weeks. I really wonder why there is so much confidence in the ABN AMRO summit, even when I look at all the other things that are still going on. I'd like an answer to that. Then there's the IPO. I find it incomprehensible that two weeks ago it was said 'we should not take a decision on the IPO, because the climate is not good now and the confidence is gone' and that two weeks later it is said 'this year it can still go to the market'. I hear Mr Nijboer say that the extra ton of salary has been handed in, which is important to us. However, there is a world view behind it. It's not just about the $100,000. It is good and right that this increase has been turned in, but it also shows something about how the bank is thinking. It is still thought: we must give top salaries because otherwise we will not attract talent. That's the pre-2008 mentality. This bank is not ready to go to the market. We must therefore postpone it. I think this should be for a number of years because we also need to think carefully about what the overall banking landscape in the Netherlands should look like. I also want all the problems at this bank to be solved first. When it comes to Dubai, the side functions and the bank's attitude in the issue of remuneration, we must take the time to do so. I'm coming to a closure. The two worlds we saw at the hearing, the world of boardrooms and the world of society, we should not want to bring together. We should welcome those bankers to the real world, because they are very welcome there. However, this does not happen on its own, and we must do so quickly. This means not only explicitly focusing on salaries, but also ensuring that buffer requirements go further and that utility banking and business banking are separated. We need to move on now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u73	Mr Klaver takes a certain tone of this, as he did last Tuesday. He says we shouldn't choose that boardroom. But why did he support this law in 2012 and did he not support an amendment in this area, which was indeed tabled? It seems that Mr Klaver chose that boardroom at the time. Why the change?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u74	I don't have an excuse for that. You have that quite right, Mrs De Vries. A mistake was made then, and I regret it, but I cannot reverse it. All I can do is make sure I do the right thing right now. And I'm trying.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u75	I think that's a very easy answer. There's been a lot of commotion and fuss. I assume that at the time you deliberately voted in favour of the law and against the amendment. Then I find it really too easy to say: yes, I have thought about it again. Now that the law is being implemented and half of the Netherlands is on the verge, you suddenly say: we should have done this quite differently. I find that really too easy from the Green Left Group. I would therefore like to know what your justification was at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u76	You can say a lot about it, but not that I'm trying to get rid of it easily. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Ik kan niet anders dan zeggen dat het een verkeerde inschatting is geweest, juist omdat toen — mevrouw De Vries gaf de motivatie al weer — te veel voor de boardroom is gekozen door ons.]] We have shown too much confidence in that. That wasn't right, and we shouldn't have done that. I wish I could make it prettier and we wouldn't have done it, but I can't make any more of it than this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u77	I commend Mr Klaver's frank attitude, but I do find it regrettable that it is only after his term of office that this happens. Mr Klaver has a very harsh judgment on a legalistic approach, but we are making the law here and voting on laws here. In the end, he did not support Mr Irrgang's amendment, which did not even make it possible. He now blames the minister for everything and everything, but he had the power and didn't take it. Mr Klaver will not return to it himself. Only when asked by Mrs De Vries does he say that it is a mistake. That is very lean in relation to the tone he takes in the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u78	I don't hear a question, but I'll answer it. I said earlier, when it came up, that it was wrong and that we should not have done it then. Unfortunately, I cannot reverse it, but I can... Let me rephrase it: I cannot promise Mr Nijboer, Mrs De Vries and all other colleagues that I will always make the right decision and always do the right thing. I think I'll make a lot more mistakes. The only thing I can promise is that I will not run away from it and, if a direct question is asked, I will answer it directly and I will be honest about it. That's all I can promise.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u79	I once again commend this explanation by Mr Klaver and the frankness with which he says: we should not have voted like this, it was a mistake of ours. PvdA, D66, PvdD and SP have avoided it. Apologies, and the Christian Union, with Mrs. Schouten. Finally, I do not think that we have made the law that way, but that there are still moral issues. On this dossier, Mr Klaver and I always stick together, with Mr Merkies also very often and Mrs Schouten almost always. It then fits to leave one's own tone and one's own behavior in proportion to one another.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u80	That's when we were supposed to hang out. I note that this has not happened. I am now saying how we feel about this. I can't reverse it, Mr. Nijboer. I hope, and I really hope, that you will always make the right decisions, make no mistakes and never have to come back to anything. I'd like to give it to everyone. But I'm sure I can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u81	Mr. Chairman. I am dealing today with three issues: first the issue of remuneration, then the internal control of the bank on, for example, integrity and finally the future of ABN AMRO. I'll start with the rewards. Three weeks ago, when the salary increase at ABN AMRO came out, the Minister said: I think this is a wrong signal. At a time when banks are still recovering and many jobs are being lost in the sector, this is hard to understand. I fully agree with the Minister's words. It is therefore also a good thing that the salary increase for ABN AMRO's top has been reversed. Two weeks ago, the Minister mentioned the salary issue as a lump in the throat. I note that the bones have been in his throat for over a year, because he has known for so long. My question is therefore why the Minister did not express his moral indignation earlier, for example in March last year, when he spoke to the ABN AMRO summit about the increase in salaries, or in the debate in October last year, about which he himself said that he reported it to the Chamber but that nobody really noticed. Let us be clear that if the Minister had wanted to stop the increase in wages in March last year, he could have done the same. Former Minister Supposedly of the PvdA said on Tuesday at Nieuwsuur that this salary increase had not been made at all if this minister had not only called it unwise, but also unacceptable. The chairman of the Supervisory Board said on Tuesday that the minister is the owner, the sole owner. My question is therefore why the Minister did nothing last year to prevent this increase in wages. How does the Minister judge his own actions? 'Cause now the picture of a play sticks. Outside in front of the camera, he's indignant, but inside he's okay with it. I come to my second point: internal control at the bank. The written reply shows that the Minister is not well aware of what is going on at the bank. These are the risks of corruption, the inadequate control of side functions and the private interests of Commissioners, and the problems in Dubai. Of all these matters, the Minister indicated that he was not aware. He also says that this is not really necessary for a shareholder. Mr Merkies has a question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u82	I know. Would you like to ask it already?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u83	I thought Mr Koolmees asked a good, sharp question about the Supervisory Board the day before yesterday.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u84	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u85	He asked if the minister said, "Don't do it." He also asked what they would have done in that case. Does Mr Koolmees feel that he has received an answer to that question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u86	No. That's why I'm asking that question again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u87	I also ask this question because Mr Nijboer concludes that the Minister would have said so. He's got that from the board of directors. At least I didn't take that out last Tuesday. Apparently, Mr Koolmees, the questioner, didn't take it out either.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u88	I did indeed ask the President of the Supervisory Board on Tuesday evening how that discussion went. On this point, the President of the Supervisory Board, Mr Van Slingelandt, said that the Minister indicated that he was unwise. That is also the answer in the written reply. However, there is a difference between unwise and unacceptable. That is exactly the question I asked the Minister. I am very curious to hear the answer. I thought it was a good question myself. I would have stuck to the fact that the Minister of all these things indicates that he is not aware. These were corruption risks and that sort of thing. Moreover, he indicated that this is not really necessary for a shareholder. I'm surprised. This is precisely what investors will be paying attention to in the event of an IPO. Simply put: the minister is going to sell a house, but he has no idea if there are hidden defects, while the risk of claims or a lower return for the taxpayer is huge. For example, the Minister writes that ABN AMRO agreed to tighten up the procedures in spring 2014 and that it will now be all right. Why is the Dutch Bank sending a letter in February of this year, in 2015, which clearly concludes that there are still shortcomings and that further investigation is being carried out? I'd like to hear a reaction to that. In the event of a major IPO, the shareholder, the seller, must know what's going on, right? Also for a statement of no objection from the Netherlands Bank, the integrity risks must be in order. Why isn't the Minister on top of this as a shareholder? My third block is about the future of ABN AMRO and its customers. In 2008, the bank was nationalized within a few days. That was an emergency hold. It was never intended to have state-owned banks, because banking and investment are not public tasks. That is what the Minister of Finance said at the time, and all the finance ministers then repeated it. For D66, the return of ABN AMRO to the market is therefore the starting point, to recover some of the lost money and to create fair competition in the banking sector. If ABN AMRO really has to compete with other banks again, competition will become fairer. That is good for the customers and it provides lower rates. That's the point. However, there is a condition: ABN AMRO must be in order. I would like to hear from the Minister whether he is confident that this will be done properly, and what he is going to do to achieve this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u89	Mr. Chairman. "We regret the commotion that has arisen about increasing the salaries of the Governing Board." These were the words of Mr Van Slingelandt, chairman of ABN AMRO's Supervisory Board, at the hearing last week. "We regret the commotion." In fact, that phrase contains all the reasons why we are having a debate here today. For why was not the decision itself lamented, the decision to increase the salaries of the members of ABN AMRO's board of directors by one tonne last year? They were entitled to it. We have to keep the best people. We are dealing with an international labour market. We know the occasional arguments, which have been used for years to justify excessive salary increases. But where is the realization that there is still a bank at all thanks to society? Where is the realization that, at a time when many people are losing their jobs, wages have been on the zero line for years and the economy is still failing thanks to the financial crisis, an attitude of service and leadership is being demanded? Where is the awareness that a financial institution has a lot of trust from customers but must therefore also be very careful about this trust? In this sense, the debate on the increase in wages is a much bigger one: the question of what has actually changed after the crisis. Unfortunately, I have to conclude that once again the confidence of the employees, society and politics in ABN AMRO has been violated. That's a bitter conclusion. Initially, the salary increase is a decision of the Supervisory Board and the Management Board, but it is also a decision that raises questions about the role of the Minister of Finance. The increase in salaries came out three weeks ago, but the Minister himself had been aware of it for a year. I honestly don't understand why he didn't report this to the Chamber a year ago. Was he afraid of the commotion that might arise? Or was it an error of assessment? Legally he couldn't get out of the salary increase, the minister reported, but the State is the only shareholder. Why didn't he hit his fist harder on the table last year? When I look at his hand, it looks like he's hitting that fist on the table by now. Would he have done that differently with the science of today? Does the Minister have sufficient powers to act against decisions he does not like? Or should we strengthen those powers even further? If that's the case, we'd love to hear it, because we're gonna have to take care of that right here in this house. At the time, the Minister promised ABN AMRO legal defence of the decision, but said that morally it was a bad signal. However, it was no reason for him to postpone the IPO last year. At least, I didn't understand that that threat was ever made. In fact, the Minister has always said: I will defend it. Why did the Minister suddenly decide to postpone the IPO two weeks ago and not before? Has the decision to suspend the IPO eventually been an emergency grip, or has the Minister had this option in the pocket for some time? "The relationship with the board of directors and the supervisory board is good again," the minister said. "There's enough trust in each other," the Prime Minister said. But how did the Minister listen to last week's hearing? I have already referred to the fact that the commotion about the increase in wages was lamented, but not the decision itself. Surely the Minister must have felt it painful that the Supervisory Board and the Management Board still do not understand what the point is now about the increase in salaries? It is the same board of directors and supervisory board that will have to prepare for an IPO when it comes to the cabinet. Surely there must be mutual unconditional trust in the conduct of such an operation? In fact, I ask the Minister to do so. This is not only the debate of looking back but also of looking forward. We must restore the financial sector to the service of society. There is still a lot to be done, we know now, not only about the rewards but also about possible fraud cases and internal control. But the Prime Minister reported last week that ABN AMRO could just go to the stock market this year. That's quite remarkable, isn't it? First the emergency brake is pulled hard and then we continue as if nothing has happened. Does the Minister also think that ABN AMRO should and should be on the market this year, or does he agree with us that we should now make a pass on the spot, that we should think about how we want to proceed with the bank? As far as we are concerned, therefore, IPO is not a goal. Let us use time to investigate different scenarios, for example to turn ABN AMRO into a cooperative bank, where directly involved parties have a say and control and where the bank also has to answer to, for example, the account holders, the employees and the SME companies that have a credit. Let us not let this moment pass and let us make ABN AMRO a bank for society again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u90	Mr. Chairman. I hope that this debate is the culmination of all the commotion surrounding ABN and that peace is created to look to the future. No one will be surprised that the VVD thinks ABN should go back to the market. The purpose of the government is not to own banks. The financial sector must, as far as we are concerned, become an ordinary sector without state-owned banks. All the regulations in the financial sector are aimed at cutting the financial link with the government, so failing banks no longer need to be saved with taxpayers' money. As far as we are concerned, this does not include state banks, which distort the market and the conditions of competition. It is important to create a diverse and competitive banking landscape in order to have good competition on mortgage and SME credit rates. Having a state bank in a further commercial market stunned with interest rates is market distortion and cannot, as far as we are concerned, be allowed to do so. That's why you don't get the sharpest rates with state banks. This may be one of the biggest IPOs in recent years. Billions of euros of taxpayers' money are at stake and a public exchange is needed from all sides, first and foremost from the bank itself, but also from the political point of view. For this reason, the ABN summit itself must stop making such unwise decisions, decisions that cannot be explained to society and the bank's employees. We must stop pointing the finger at ABN and Finance, and politics must also be cautious. It can otherwise affect the price negatively and it is ultimately not a playground. It's about money, a lot of taxpayers' money.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u91	The government is 100% shareholder. The bank belongs to everyone, you might say. Why the hell does politics have to be restrained? Isn't that the problem? Haven't we been too hesitant for far too long and given all the space to the ABN summit? Isn't that why we're in a situation where you don't really want to be? Shouldn't we be much more activist?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u92	We are of the opinion that the bank should return to the stock market quickly and responsibly. Then you have to make sure that the bank operates in a commercial and good way, which also makes it possible to return to the market. It's the only way we can get as much of the taxpayers' money back as possible. That doesn't fit in with interfering with the details. At the time, therefore, we deliberately chose to distance the shareholdership. A separate foundation has been set up to ensure that the bank could go back to the market.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u93	Bringing to the market should not be an end in itself, nor should it be an end in itself. Surely it's the reason why this bank came into government possession? Those were the mistakes that led to the credit crisis. Those mistakes should not be made again, and if you look at ABN, surely we can see that ABN has learned too little. If you want that bank to return to the market, surely you need to intervene now, including the government as a shareholder, and say: we want this to be a healthy bank, a bank where normal salaries are paid, where no weird things happen in a faraway country like Dubai and where the side functions of the summit are well arranged? Surely it's our responsibility to be on top of that, isn't it? Doesn't Mrs De Vries live a little bit before 2008 when she says "laissez faire, let's leave it all to the market because we're not going over it."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u94	I do not think I have said at all that we should leave everything to the market. I told you to do that with laws and regulations. You send that with laws and regulations. We don't like having two state-owned banks compete with the other commercial banks. This leads to market distortions, and this is bad for mortgage rates and SME loans. After all, that bank cannot stunt its rates.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u95	The position of the VVD is known. The VVD doesn't really want rules. The VVD always opposes this, because it wants politics to stay out of this. You leave it entirely to the bank itself and therefore also to the supervisory board. In my opinion, Mrs De Vries was also surprised at the way things were the day before yesterday, even though she was a little softer. What does she think of the behaviour of the Supervisory Board? Does she think that this is the right behaviour and does she think that this is the right board of Commissioners? In other words, is she allowed to keep that advice or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u96	We have made it very clear that we do not think we can explain and defend the increase in salaries either, especially because the bank staff are on the zero line and many have been made redundant in order to reduce the bank's costs. But that is no reason for us to say now: we have no confidence in the board of directors or the supervisory board. The board of directors has chosen to return the salary increase. We believe that this is a sensible decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u97	Yes, but Mrs De Vries knows that the Supervisory Board has remained stoic and still thinks the extra tonne is very good. How does Mrs De Vries feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u98	The Commissioners have indeed expressed their regret at the commotion. They have indeed made a different assessment. We have indicated that we believe that in this case they should have taken greater account of what is alive in society and of the commotion that has provoked it. We have been very clear on this. The Supervisory Board has made a different assessment. You may differ on that, but that is no reason for us to say that we do not have confidence in the Supervisory Board.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u99	The question is, of course, whether we are talking about a ton of salary increase, at this time, when others are on the zero line and thousands of people are losing their jobs, or about social unrest. As I understand it, I fall for Mr Merkies in the House of Lords, if there had been no social unrest, there would not have been an increase in wages. The Minister contributed to this social unrest by saying here in Question Time'morally reprehensible' and 'I cannot explain'. I've heard him say ten times that he couldn't explain this. If anyone should have been able to explain this, that's the only shareholder in the bank. What does Mrs De Vries think of the fact that it is not about the increase in wages, but purely about the commotion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u100	That's a trade-off. The Supervisory Board has said that it regrets the commotion. We have made it very clear what we think of this increase in wages. I can repeat what I said to Mr Merkies, but that does not seem very helpful to me. We have said that this increase in wages is difficult to explain and not to defend, but that it was allowed within the existing law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u101	If I understand correctly, like Mr Nijboer, you are actually speaking of a motion of censure against the Supervisory Board, which is so strange and has not seen the commotion coming and which, when that commotion was there, reversed the decision to get rid of that commotion, and not because the decision was reprehensible. Would you agree with me that the supervisory board is not in the right place to guarantee the value and future of the bank in the direction of the stock exchange? You at least agree with Mr Nijboer and me?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u102	I said earlier that the Supervisory Board did indeed make a different assessment, but you also heard me say very clearly in the reply that we still have confidence in that Supervisory Board and also in the Management Board.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u103	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u104	How could all this have derailed? Salary increases from the summit that cannot be explained, leaked letters from the Nederlandsche Bank, a commissioner who quit, a minister who would defend something but doesn't actually do so, leaked correspondence between ABN AMRO and Finance; the confidence in the financial sector has gotten a pinch again. The bank's decision to continue the previously granted wage increase for the summit was the cause of all this and of this unrest. As far as we are concerned, there is no doubt about that. Even though it was legal and legal, it was unwise. It was inexplicable at a time when ordinary bank employees are on the zero line and many bank employees have lost their jobs in recent years. Why did the Minister find the decision not to explain but to defend it? That's what he agreed to do, isn't it? What exactly did he agree to? And why didn't the Minister inform the House of Representatives before and more explicitly?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u105	I am referring to a sentence which I think I heard Mrs De Vries say, but which I still want to verify. Did she say that confidence in the financial sector has been reduced by the actions of the Chamber, the Minister and society, and not by the actions of the financial institutions themselves?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u106	I have said that confidence has been squeezed and that it has all started with the decision of the ABN summit, the Supervisory Board, to opt for this salary increase. We said that we thought that was an unwise decision. That's where it all started, not somewhere else.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u107	I am pleased that Mrs De Vries is adding this, because it recognises that the financial sector itself still has a problem of confidence and that the financial sector itself must now take steps, with or without the help of politics and society, to regain that confidence. Does Mrs De Vries recognise that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u108	I've said that trust has gotten a hold of it. Something else happened after that: the board of directors decided to waive a salary increase. We think that is a wise decision. As far as I am concerned, this contributes to confidence. I would also like to thank the Minister for his comprehensive answer to the questions that have been asked. The answer is clear and contributes to peace and trust around the bank, as far as we are concerned. The VVD is also pleased that the leaks of confidential information are being investigated. The consumer must be able to vote with his feet if he does not agree with his bank's policy. That's the most powerful signal. Then they can make choices. At the moment that is still too difficult and too complicated. The VVD wants to simplify this and therefore proposes to have an independent investigation into the steps that we can already take to facilitate it, for example through the Transition Service. It may also be possible to take steps in the area of number retention, which seems to have put Europe on the long run. There are people who say that ABN should remain a state bank and promise that everyone there can borrow cheaper and get a higher interest rate on their savings. The profits and thus the dividend evaporate with such a direction on interest rates. Then not a penny of tax money comes back to the treasury, while the VVD wants as much tax money as possible to come back. Some political parties use this situation to argue for further postponement of the IPO, but these parties are basically opposed to an IPO and hope that it will be postponed. The VVD was, is and remains in favour of the rapid and responsible IPO of ABN. As much tax money as possible from the Dutch must come back. When the market and the company are ready, the first step can be taken. The stock exchange climate is now also favourable. We must make use of this by bringing a first part of the shares to the market.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u109	The IPO was postponed because Mr Nijboer made an unnamed call with the Minister of Finance. Has the VVD also been informed in good time about the delay in the IPO?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u110	Like Mr Nijboer, I am not going to answer for individual telephone calls here. I also do not understand why that is very relevant in this regard.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u111	Because a decision has been taken to postpone the IPO of perhaps 15 billion. The VVD even wants profit maximization, so you come up with that kind of amount. Those are big decisions. As a reason for that decision, the VVD once mentioned the questioning of Chambers, by the way. We consider that to be a rather narrow reason for postponing an IPO. Later Dubai joined as a reason. After that, Mr Nijboer said: I called that it was not allowed. We are really unclear on what grounds the IPO is being postponed. That is why I put that question to you. How did you hear that IPO was postponed?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u112	How did I hear about that? The letter that was sent to you, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u113	Mrs De Vries's whole speech was based on the remark that ABN should be on the market as soon as possible. What does Mrs De Vries think about the fact that the IPO has now been postponed by the cabinet? Does she regret that decision?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u114	We have indicated that the decision is not illogical, given the unrest that has arisen and the fact that time has been needed to clarify everything and to get the facts straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u115	I'm just thinking about that "no illogical" thing. Let me put it another way: would Mrs De Vries, on the basis of the facts of the last few weeks, have decided to postpone the IPO? Or does it want to move forward in full speed and think that this had to be resolved, but that we should not have allowed a delay? Would she have made a different choice than the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u116	We didn't link the reversal of the salary increase to the IPO. For us, the central point is that the IPO goes fast and responsibly, but that the market and the company are ready. We didn't think this unrest was convenient. That is why we were right to get all the questions and facts straight first, to get some clarity, then to have this debate and then to look again at what the cabinet is doing in relation to the IPO.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u117	Mr. Chairman. My group is extremely unhappy with the state bank ABN AMRO. The Minister of Finance seems to be playing a painful double game and ABN-topman Zalm no longer seems to have any political feeling. The planned and now fortunately withdrawn salary increase of a tonne for ABN AMRO's official summit shows that the bank is still very far removed from what lives in our society. Confidence in the banking sector has fallen further. Once the right moment is there, ABN AMRO must return to the market. Banks don't belong in the hands of the state. Socialist plans about popular banks may be nice for the stage, but they are an attack on economic freedom and the free market. I would like to hear from the Minister what specific criteria must be met before the bank goes back to the stock market. Fortunately, there is still one plus to note on this farce, namely the new resentment in the coalition. Within the VVD there is more and more displeasure about the performance of PvdA Minister Dijsselbloem, and that is right. Stunting with billions is irresponsible. It's messing around, it's sanding, the coalition's under increasing tension, and that's good news for the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u118	Mr. Chairman. "Discussion between ABN and Finance escalates" headlines Het Financieele Dagblad on 1 April. That wasn't a joke. It was the preliminary low point of a constant negative coverage of ABN AMRO. It started with Dubai. I agree with Mr Koolmees on this point. How many issues remain with ABN that the Minister would have to include in a prospectus for a public listing because there is potential liability? I'd like a comprehensive answer to that. The increase in wages was reversed and that is what has been said. However, there is more to this bank than salaries. The unresolved problems surrounding the interest rate derivatives of SMEs, the special management department and the ABN AMRO collection agency, which sometimes seems to have a pre-emptive footprint, seem to indicate a bank that does not yet understand its social role. I'm here to talk about the bonuses. How's it going with an IPO? Is there any additional remuneration paid at the beginning or at the end of the stock exchange to the board of directors, to employees in the form of money, shares or, for example, phantom shares, or otherwise? I'd like a clear answer. Then the role of the minister himself. Two weeks ago, in the Chamber debate, he tried so hard to pretend there was a bone in his throat. However, it turned out to have swallowed a smooth, soft piece of fish fillet. He didn't object to the raise. In fact, he promised to defend it. So I would like to ask you one more question: did the Minister warn ABN AMRO a year ago that he would publicly lose his salary increases and, more importantly, that he would postpone an IPO for this? I'm asking another, factual question. In the hearing, the President of the Supervisory Board said that the wage increase had already been paid by the end of March. The Minister said this happened from June 1st. I'd like some clarification on this. Only then was the correspondence to seal it. So this is a relevant question. There were letters that were previously not made public because it would contain information sensitive to competition. These are the letters that were made available to the public and just appeared in the media a few days later. If it contained information that was sensitive to competition, which information was it, and who is now being held liable for it? Why does the Minister tell one story for the cameras and towards the Chamber and behind the scenes towards ABN AMRO a different story? In October 2014, however, it was announced that directors would refrain from raising wages for 2012 and 2013, but would not say anything about 2014. We also saw this in the post-tax of 642 million. Over the past few weeks, the Minister's image, the image of ABN AMRO and the image of politics have not been very good. Does the Minister still have faith in a good future for ABN AMRO? Does he still have faith in ABN AMRO as a partner, given the nasty game of leaks? The Prime Minister took an advance in advance. He has full confidence in ABN AMRO. But, yeah, what's that statement worth? The last time he said he had complete confidence, he said that about Minister Opstelten and Mr Verheijen. We know how that turned out. Finally, the future. What are we going to do with the decision to make an IPO? For the CDA, first of all, there must be more peace. We need to look at the long-term yield of a stable bank. That's different from short-term profit maximization. Does the Minister share this with the CDA? In addition, the CDA would like a private bank. Banking is not a central task of the government. The ABN AMRO of the future has to do its job, without flaunting. It must finance SMEs and large businesses, provide mortgages and not engage in risky experiments. She must be of service to society. The CDA wants to prevent a large foreign player from swallowing ABN AMRO. A protection structure is therefore desirable. Does the Minister share this? The CDA wants to avoid an HBU scenario: selling a Dutch player abroad, under which Dutch entrepreneurs suffer badly, because the portfolio is immediately disposed of. This only makes Dutch society worse. On this point, too, we would like to receive a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u119	I hear Mr Omtzigt say that he wants a closer look at different options and scenarios for the future of ABN AMRO. Does he share my view that we should not look at an IPO now all the way, but instead we should get an overview of the different options that can then be weighed by this Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u120	I do like to get an overview of all the options. For the CDA, it's certain it must be a private bank. There is therefore some light between what a number of other parties, such as Mr Merkies' party, want and what the CDA wants. It would be nice if the Minister could sort that out in the short term. If Mrs Schouten were to ask what we think of a cooperative, I heard her say that, then I think it would be difficult to transform an existing bank with 22,000 employees afterwards into a cooperative. A bank can grow from the bottom up to a co-operative, the Rabobank has problems with this at the moment, but if it is imposed on being a co-operative, for example, I would not know who the members should be and how the capital is financed. In theory it is beautiful, but in practice I look forward with interest to a detailed proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u121	It's nice that the CDA is already answering a question I haven't even asked. That's profit. The cabinet now seems to be moving in one direction, namely as soon as possible. I have heard the parties in the cabinet say the same thing. For us, it is important that we can put the different scenarios next to each other and weigh them. Perhaps every scenario has its hooks and eyes on it, but I can hear Mr Omtzigt say what the hooks and eyes of privatisation are bringing to the market. But it's good to hear he wants that insight, too. I will table a motion asking the cabinet to look carefully at the various options, so that a weighted assessment can be made.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u122	We have a variant on such a motion. For us it is important that a private solution is chosen. I hear Mrs Schouten use the concepts of 'privatisation' and 'exchange' as synonyms. For the CDA, these are not synonyms. It is very possible, for example, that there may be opportunities for private placement which have been rejected in a very easy way at an earlier stage and which are privatisation, but not an immediate admission to the stock exchange. Mrs Schouten asked if there were any other forms of privatisation. Yeah, there are.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u123	At least I can see that the CDA is thinking about it. Indeed, we are in favour of a bank in government hands, like a majority of the Dutch and the PvdA, albeit before the elections. That was one of their big points. Then we should at least have the debate on this. Then we can't agree, but we shouldn't want to make that IPO this year like an idiot. First, a step back to a fundamental debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u124	We think that bank should be private. But we do want some more options on the table. But for us, private matters are paramount. I am somewhat surprised that, where the State currently has two banks, namely SNS and ABN AMRO, the SP chooses to hold ABN AMRO as a public bank. That's a bank that handles a lot of financing for big companies. This does not seem to me to be the central task of the government, even in the view of the SP. I expected the SP to say, you know what, if you want a state bank, you keep the SNS. That is not our idea, because by holding two banks, and then ABN AMRO, we are getting very close to a kind of Soviet-style economy. We don't really like that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u125	I think we're a long way from a Soviet-style economy. Nor do we say that all banks should be in government hands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u126	Oh, thank God!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u127	However, we have made this proposal for ABN AMRO. However, my question was not about that. After all, I know that we disagree. Does Mr Omtzig agree with me that we should not go public this year as an idiot, but that we should have the debate in which he puts forward his arguments and in which I put forward my arguments for a bank in government hands, first because it is now playing in society? Does he agree with me that we should have that debate first and then look further?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u128	Mr Omtzigt, are you trying to answer this question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u129	Since I blamed someone for not answering the precise question entirely, I think it is right for the President to say this to me. I would like to have a broader debate. That debate is indeed about the way in which privatisation is being carried out. That is a somewhat narrower discussion than Mr Merkies would like, but I am sure he will put his options on the table at that time in that debate. I do not rule out the government taking steps to this end this year and we will not be opposed to it at that time. I'm just saying it's fair and square. There is no veto in front of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u130	I have not heard from Mr Omtzigt about other banks that are now bypassing the bonus ceiling by raising the fixed salaries very hard. ING has given itself a 28% salary increase. The ING top man earns nearly 1.7 million. We had a debate on this six months ago. Then the minister and the CDA still assumed the self-cleaning ability and the moral appeal. They assumed that banks would be reluctant and prudent with salary increases. Now that does not appear to be the case. Does Mr Omtzigt agree with me that we should take more legal action on this now that the banks have shown that morale is in the wind?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u131	The CDA is willing to look into that. The CDA is pretty shocked by the bankers' attitude in the hearing. I would like to draw Mr Van Dijck's attention to a CDA amendment to the banking tax in June 2012 that the bonuses for the summit at 25%....................................................................................................................................................................................... If the bonuses increased, a million fines had to be paid through the banking tax. ING is now circumventing this by increasing its fixed salary. We think that is quite the wrong signal. We find that even worse after the reports today about what they all do to flex workers. We're willing to look into that. I am also making an appeal to ING, which was really saved only by the support of the Dutch taxpayer, to finally take that into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u132	Madam President. My contribution is limited to one of the incidents surrounding ABN AMRO which has led to a postponement of the IPO, namely the issue of remuneration. What should people at home think about that? People who remember well the time when a banker was mostly a decent man who looked after your pennies like a father. Drivers seem to have learned very little from an important lesson. Greed, delusion of grandeur and losing sight of the primary utility function of financial institutions have been the causes of the financial crisis. The attitude of financial directors, again in this Chamber last Tuesday, finds 50PLUS self-centered, business-based, regrettable and disenchanting. The moral compass of directors of financial institutions such as ABN AMRO, ING and AEGON does not point in the right direction. The magnetic field is missing, as Dr. Wawoe described it strikingly. Unfortunately, this attitude of financial directors confirms the social image that has grown since the crisis: profits are mainly for directors and the zero line, losses and financial disasters are borne by collective employees of the bank, the State and ultimately the taxpayer. Research shows that many clients from different banks would actually want to leave their current bank. But where are they supposed to go? The service provided by banks is becoming more expensive and increasingly sober. It is the pension funds that are going to take over the granting of credit to SMEs, just where banks often fail to do so. That too finds 50PLUS significant. The primary utility function of banks seems to get in the experience of many people in the background. The same applies to confidence in banks and their directors. That is a dangerous development. How's the Minister going to turn that tide? How are we going to reverse that tide? Last Tuesday's round table showed how two different worlds of experience were diametrically opposed to each other in terms of the desired level of directors' remuneration: the world of society and politics on the one hand, and the world of directors of financial institutions on the other. Commissioner Van Slingelandt of ABN AMRO spoke of a dilemma in this context. 50PLUS would like to say: a diabolical dilemma. How do we get out of there? 50PLUS sees no reason to go further into the technique after the contributions of the previous groups. It is clear that the existing rules on remuneration and codes of conduct have not yet been sufficiently effective. I ask the Minister of Finance what he will do about it. There is now an important task for the Minister. This will also be the case after the possible IPO of ABN AMRO. The State and the taxpayer are and will remain, even after independence, the dreamed back and rescuer in need for financial institutions with a general utility function. The taxpayer will lose 10 to 15 billion to the rescue of ABN AMRO alone. That creates obligations. 50PLUS urges the government to set up an independent, wide-ranging State Commission to deliver a concrete opinion on a socially and economically sound remuneration structure for financial institutions with a general utility. A constructive dialogue between the financial sector and society must be launched quickly. The trenches war that is now under way will only lead to losers. Restoring peace and trust, that's all that matters.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u133	Mr. Chairman. One of the spearheads of our movement Think is: justice. The top salaries are not fair at the moment. Almost the whole of the Netherlands agrees on that. Citizens pay taxes. Entrepreneurs pay taxes. That tax saved banks during the credit crisis. That is what we think is right. But what do we see now? Now that things are going well, the banks are going to sit on their money. They don't give credit to companies and they don't give people mortgages. In the Netherlands 45% of credit applications submitted by SMEs are rejected. In Germany and France this is only 15%. There's bankers there, too. Only Greece is doing worse than the Netherlands. The Dutch citizens and companies have saved the banks, but the banks are not helping the citizens and businesses. Instead, they pay themselves bonuses. What kind of delusional world do these bankers live in? What are our solutions? First of all, we believe that ABN AMRO should remain a state bank, just as long as it does its core tasks properly. These core tasks are: business lending and mortgage lending to citizens. They must be at the same level as in the best countries in Europe. Only then can the bank possibly go to the stock exchange. Our second solution concerns top salaries. We are proposing to introduce a legal ceiling so that we can get rid of these ridiculous salaries. The top men who pay themselves millions are just employees. It doesn't fit that kind of salary. A statutory minimum wage was introduced in 1968. After almost 50 years, we could introduce a maximum legal wage. The time is right for that. That's what you see in this debate. We are thinking of a maximum wage of ten times the modal income. That's about three and a half tons a year. Three and a half tons is a lot of money. There's a lot you can do with that. It's easy to enter. We can adjust the existing minimum wage law and change it to minimum and maximum wage law. Dare to think differently. Dare to be righteous. Minister, dare to take on the banks.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u134	This brings to an end the first term of office. The Minister has indicated that he would like a short suspension to prepare himself for his answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u135	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Chamber for the many questions asked. I will be the first to address the issue of rewards, specifically at ABN AMRO. Then I come to the IPO and, in conjunction with that, the issues arising from the Dubai office and the DNB monitoring letter. As far as the rewards are concerned, I think we can honestly see that our political and social views on this matter have been considerably strengthened since the start of ABN's nationalisation. When the new directors were attracted to the national bank, agreements were made with them which we would find incomprehensible at the moment. I'm just saying it the way I see it. It was agreed that they not only received a salary, which you can find, but that they also received bonuses, up to 60% of the fixed salaries. With normal operation, with normal performance, drivers would get nine tons. If they were to perform up there, they would get even €960,000 a year. That's changed several times. CRD III and CRD IV have been dealt with. The Dutch legislation has been amended and there has been the Act liability limitation DNB and AFM and bonus ban state-supported companies. Then came the Act on remuneration policy for financial enterprises, which I tabled and defended, with a bonus ceiling. All this has led to many adjustments in remuneration policies, in many institutions, but certainly also in ABN AMRO. In March last year, the Supervisory Board, which is primarily responsible for the remuneration policy, came to speak with me and the chairman of the board of directors. The specific reason was the issue of a deferred 2010 bonus. That was a bonus that would come to pay out in 2014 until European legislation CRD III said this type of bonus could no longer exist. The board said that it would have been agreed that the two tonnes per driver would still be paid out. Finance has always said that we did not agree with this and that this simply could not be done under the current law, and that no approval was given by the shareholder either. That was the reason for our discussion in March, a very different matter. So it was about a one-off bonus of two tons. In that discussion it was also discussed that the Supervisory Board intended to implement the 2012 decision to increase fixed salaries by 16.7%. More precisely, that decision was fully taken and implemented in 2012. This was also possible on the basis of the legislation adopted in the Chamber at the beginning of 2012 and entered into force in June 2012. This decision was subsequently converted into a new remuneration policy and approved by NLFI, which holds the shares on behalf of the State, with the explicit approval of the shareholder himself, the Minister. It was then decided at any time to waive twice, in 2012 and 2013, that decision to increase salaries by 16.7%. This was also reported to the Chamber in response to questions from Mr Merkies of June or July 2013. In the conversation in March, which was actually about the one-off two-tonne bonus, it emerged that in 2014 the previously decided salary increase would enter into force. It was therefore the implementation of an old decision. This is important in the context of how you can and must deal with it as a director, as a minister. Many have asked how the Minister has raised this issue. Did he just say he thought it was unwise, or did he go this far to say it was unacceptable? There's no verbatim record of it. The correspondence which Members have seen is not a report of discussions either. It is a reflection on a number of aspects of the topics and conclusions that some have drawn from them. I made it very clear in those talks, both in March and in the discussions which took place later in September and in autumn, that I would find this decision, which I cannot contest, unwise, undesirable and harmful to the bank. We've been talking about that for a long time. The fact that there would be noise and debate and criticism has certainly been recognised by the bank's directors. However, they made a different assessment, as was also shown in the hearing, with a strong emphasis on good employership. Rights were granted and agreements were made with the directors of the banks. They are convinced that the quality of the bank must also be well rewarded. And you can argue about "good." The outcome of those talks was two-fold. Firstly, the one-off bonus which, as I said, was the reason for our discussion in March, which was finally abandoned. Secondly, we found that they did not want to return to the previous decision of 2012. We have found that I find this unwise and undesirable, but also that I have to accept it because, even as a 100% shareholder, I cannot retroactively change the law, nor can I formally reverse decisions adopted by my predecessor as shareholder. The members of the Chamber can agree with all that, they can say that this decision should not have been taken at the time, but at the very least we share the responsibility for this. It was possible within the law, it was then implemented and well found, the Chamber knew that it had been found right and that the salaries had been increased by 16.7%. I cannot say as a director in March 2014: with retroactive effect I will waive those rights. The only way I could have done that is to say that some people have also suggested it was by abandoning confidence in the directors. So, while you are entitled to it, you know how I feel about it now, if you persist, I say you have confidence in yourself as a driver. That consideration of going so far, I have also made it in all openness. I did not go there simply because the legislator and the shareholder took that decision in 2012 with the agreement of the Chamber. The only thing the board and the supervisory board do is let that decision do its job. Voluntary abandonment by the Management Board shall no longer take place. On that basis, I do not think that a supervisory board or even a board of directors should be sent home. That's an explicit consideration. The Chamber may decide otherwise, but this is my view. At the same time, I said to the directors: you know what my opinion is, I will not deny myself, but I accept that this is a legal and administrative matter. It was correct in 2012 and with everyone's consent and knowledge so. This is an extremely difficult dilemma, because the decision to which you are bound as a minister and which you are supposed to defend on administrative and legal grounds is extremely difficult to defend in the current circumstances and the current climate. I admit that this is a double message, but I think I should deliver it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u136	If it turns out that the Minister has even considered giving up trust in the Supervisory Board and the Board, then it is actually quite a question, not whether he has said that it is sensible or not, but whether he has said to them 'don't do it' and 'I find this unacceptable'.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u137	No, I did it in compelling terms. I do not have a verbatim report on this, but I have expressed myself in compelling words. If you say the word "unacceptable" and the board of directors would say: yes but, nevertheless...; if he were to speak about good employership and standing agreements and say: we cannot open contracts etc., then you have to go ahead and cancel the trust. At that time, as a responsible minister, successor to your predecessors and enforcer of the law, you have to ask yourself whether you are willing to send people home because they stick to a past appointment. I would like to see them not do so and in the end they did not. However, I do not think it is right to send drivers home for that reason. I didn't do that, and I won't.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u138	With me, the question remains how compelling that profession was. I understand now that the Minister has not said: do not do it, do not do it. Mr Zalm writes in the correspondence: we confirm that you will defend this. He doesn't write: legal defence. The Minister does not go into that in his reply. He doesn't write: I didn't agree with this. Why didn't he? This now breathes on all sides that the Minister actually agreed. Why didn't he just say, "Don't do it?" Why didn't he write in the letter after that: I don't want to do this, you shouldn't have done this, I don't agree with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u139	Again, the correspondence is not an interview report. I have made it clear in the most clear terms 'don't do it', just to use Mr Merkies's words, but, again, the literal terms are not recorded anywhere. The ultimate consequence is: pronounce yourself unacceptable; I have heard several of you say that. That would mean that if the supervisory board were to persist on the basis of its arguments, then you would have to take the consequence and give up the confidence. If it had been a new decision, the shareholder would simply have had complete freedom and even the power to say: I am not signing up for this, this is not going to happen. The point was that the concrete had already been poured, that the decision was there. We cannot go back to that when it comes to the conditions of employment laid down in contracts. Even so, you can give up trust in people, but then you give up trust because they stick to previous agreements that have gone administratively and legally neatly. And that's a step I'm not taking, which I haven't made and which I won't make.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u140	For the sake of completeness the following, also in relation to the other negotiating dossier, namely the variable remuneration from 2010. Mr Zalm's letter, which was leaked, states that the Supervisory Board considers that this variable remuneration from 2010 was rightly awarded. That was before the law on the bonus ban and on the legislation CRD IV. However, the Minister did say 'unacceptable' or 'we are not going to' because the chairman of ABN's board says: in order to avoid any fuss, I am not going to do so. The image is now that a deal has been made. On the one hand it says 'this is unacceptable' and on the other it says 'I accept this'. Is that a picture?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u141	No. I do agree with Mr Koolmees that this is the image that has emerged and which is also called up in Mr Zalm's letter, but I repeat in my letter that it is really two distinct discussions. We don't sit here and shake hands with each other. The distinction between them is as follows. The decision on that one-off two-tonne bonus was never accepted by Finance and NLFI. We didn't like the basis of it and the law had changed by now. The successive annual reports of 2011 and 2012 also did not mention that there was still a bonus to be paid in 2013 or 2014. So on many grounds we have said: sorry, but this cannot be done. The law has now changed, there is now a bonus ban and there is not another right from 2010. That's the big difference with the other issue. The decision was passed neatly, with the shareholder's signature and the approval of NFLI. That was a decision that in itself could not be contested. The decision on that one-off two-tonne bonus is and was contested by us. There hasn't been a deal, a trade-out or anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u142	The shareholder disagreed with it and also objected to it, but legally it was correct. Now the Minister's argument is that he can't do anything legally to stop that salary increase. However, if I had read this letter in this way, if the Minister of Finance had said 'unacceptable, that is not going to happen', we would have also received a letter containing the following: in order to avoid any fuss, we will refrain from it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u143	That is purely speculative; we do not know that. The big difference is that the first issue, the one-off bonus, administratively and legally just didn't add up; that was never signed by a mine predecessors. So we said, "I'm sorry, we're not gonna accept that." The second issue was that we could not fight politically-administratively and legally. All this has been done neatly, documented and with signatures underneath and so on. That is where I made a compelling appeal to the Supervisory Board and the Management Board to refrain from doing so again. But that was not what they wanted. I say about speculation in the sense of "if you had now stepped on your head, things would have turned out differently," I say: I have been there and I haven't made any clarity about how important this was to me and how worried I was about it. Nevertheless, it has been said: sorry, we have agreements about this and a deal is a deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u144	I did not find Mr Koolmees that speculative. Eventually, the board itself has waived accepting this higher reward. That was after the informal power of the shareholder had been used. It was said that the IPO will not proceed. So the board of directors has given up. If the pressure had been increased in March and the Minister had more authority then it would not have been so speculative to put it here: it would not have happened?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u145	That's really speculative. I did not postpone the IPO of ABN AMRO in order, as it were, to put the directors of ABN AMRO on the spot or to force them to abandon salaries by way of a detour. I have postponed the IPO I shall go into this in detail later because the Dubai issue and the tremendous criticism from society and politics on the issue of pay had now been added. I felt that we should have the debate on this first and that we should not be able, in that climate, to discuss these matters together, as a cabinet, to make a happy decision to start the IPO. I have said, therefore, that I have also been clear in the media on this issue, and that these issues must first be dealt with and discussed. I had a lot of questions lying around, all of which should have been answered. I said that we would see further afterwards and take a decision on the IPO as soon as possible, which we are still in favour of. Maybe we disagree on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u146	I certainly think so, and certainly about the pace at which it happened. The central point is, of course, that in the end the board of directors abandoned it because there was a great deal of commotion. There was pressure. I do not understand why this finance minister says that his hands were fully tied in March and that he really could not do anything at the time. I thought that was the time to inform the Chamber about it and assert its authority. I think that if he had informed the Chamber at that time, the commotion at that time would have become so great that the Minister might not have had to assert his authority at all. Then the reward would not have gone on and we would not have been in trouble and actually gotten into big shit over the last few weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u147	Mr Klaver actually says that the Minister did not get his way inside the Chambers and should have started rioting outside the door in order to build up the pressure. That's not how it works. Nor have I threatened to postpone the IPO, to which one of Mr Klaver's colleagues asked. Also in March or October, I did not do so in the direction of the board of directors. That, too, would be inappropriate to me. We simply found that we had a disagreement as to whether this 2012 decision should come into force and what its consequences would be for the bank. We had a disagreement about that. It is not my style to say: you do not accept that I do not want it and hold on to the formal rights, then I will go outside and force you or I will force you to postpone the IPO. The decision to postpone the IPO was only taken after the conflict in Dubai, the rewards, the broad and social debate and the criticism that came about, including on the part of the bank's employees. In this climate, we have said that we are not going to take a decision now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u148	The Minister is putting words in my mouth as if it were about riots outside the talks that have taken place. I'm talking about informing the Chamber. That also concerns your position, Mr President, it is about informing the Chamber. That's really something other than rioting somewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u149	It's been noted. I give the floor to Mrs Schouten.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u150	I may have to respond to informing the Chamber, but I will be able to do so later.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u151	I think that's wise. We are going to listen to Mrs Schouten first.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u152	I want to continue at the last point, because there is tension in the story. The minister says that he did not threaten to blow off the stock market, but that he did foresee that commotion would arise and that he pointed that out to the bank three times. Later that commotion was the reason to delay the IPO. About Dubai, the Minister reported in a letter to the Chamber on 19 March that this is no reason to call off the IPO. At some point the Minister could have thought that he was pulling the emergency brake at the very last moment and that he might have done so earlier, because he provided that commotion and knew that the hassle would cause and that it might eventually harm the market?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u153	Anything can happen, but that's not how it happened. The issue in Dubai itself was not a cause for me, or not enough, if you will, to postpone the decision on the start of the IPO. I still think so. Then a thick pile of parliamentary questions about Dubai came my way, which had to be answered. I was also entitled to assume that this would be the subject of a debate in the Chamber. The award decision has caused a lot more commotion than I expected. I am politically experienced enough and I feel the sentiment enough to know that such a decision will lead to a lot of criticism, criticism that I share and have also made known to ABN AMRO. However, the commotion was even bigger than I could have expected. That combined with the issue in Dubai, the stack of parliamentary questions that had already been raised and the prospect of a parliamentary debate on both issues led me to say to my colleagues: I think it is wise not to bring the decision to the Council of Ministers next Friday. I have, of course, found that out among a number of colleagues in the cabinet. You don't make that kind of decision on your own. Those colleagues, the premium and the Deputy Prime Minister agreed. As I have always said that I would inform the Chamber in the first quarter, it seemed appropriate to send a short note stating that the decision would not be taken in the first quarter. The reason was the combination of factors in the week before and around that weekend before. There's never been any mention of it in advance. Nor have I ever threatened the board of directors or the supervisory board.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u154	Perhaps it is a bit of a question of conscience, but is the fact that the increase in salaries has been reversed after the Minister announced that the IPO was not going through for the Minister was a nice bycatch? Or was it ultimately meant to be a means of exerting pressure to ensure that they really moderate that salary?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u155	No, it wasn't meant to be a leverage. I thought and think that you should take such a decision on the start of the IPO because we have already taken the decision of principle and we have also discussed it in the Chamber, and we should not take it when there are so many questions and there is so much discussion, and there is also a parliamentary debate on the issue in Dubai and the rewards. That is why I said that this debate must take place first. Hopefully after that, we'll go back to a climate of peace and trust. The expression is known: trust goes on horseback and comes on foot. Then we'll continue with the IPO. That will be a separate decision of the cabinet at a later date. I never meant to postpone the IPO until the time when rewards would be waived, nor did I ever send these signals to ABN AMRO. That link was never made directly by me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u156	It seems rather powerless to me, to be honest. As a 100% shareholder, you invested 22 billion in such a bank to keep it alive. Now you're sitting there a year ago and then there's a decision that you yourself say is morally reprehensible, that it's a lot of fuss and that it's harmful to the bank. That's what the minister writes up to four times in his letter. I can't believe he's gonna take that bone anyway. The decision was postponed by the board two years earlier for a reason. They didn't want it because they knew it could cause a lot of commotion and be very harmful. Now the 22 billion-dollar shareholder says he doesn't want it to happen. The Minister has resources in his hands. He has considered sending the Commissioners home, but he could also change the legislation somehow. With an amendment he could still make a change in the law. In other words, the Minister had resources, instruments. If he can't stop this, then who can? He is 100% shareholder and legislator at the same time. I don't understand this powerlessness. The minister stands by and sees how such a bank is deliberately damaged. That's gonna matter on the stock market billions of dollars.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u157	The question is clear. The point is that Mr Van Dijck has stepped over one thing. That is that I was not formally asked for a decision. There was a decision. That was taken and approved by my predecessor in law, NLFI. It also fit within the legislation as agreed by the Chamber. That's the big difference. If a new decision had been submitted to me, I could have said quite simply: it is not happening. There was a decision. The only thing that happened after 2012 is that the drivers themselves gave up on a one-off and voluntary basis. By the way, one decision was taken at one time. Mr Van Dijck says that I could have blocked the decision. I could have done that if I had been a minister in 2012. Probably I wouldn't have done that at the time and in that context and I would have liked it. I'm not losing my predecessor. Time has changed. We are looking at this much more closely and are now much more critical than a few years ago. The second argument was that I could have tightened the law. The law can always be strengthened if there is a majority for it, but you cannot retroactively deprive someone of their contractual rights by quickly tightening up the law. If we were to tighten up the law on bank remuneration today, that would apply from today. You cannot say retroactively: you received a salary increase in 2012, forget it. It just can't be. I didn't feel like coming to court against ABN AMRO, knowing that I would lose, because, again, the decision has been taken entirely lawfully. Finally, you say I could have fired the board. You are right in that, but if you see how this went and on the basis of which the board intended to implement this decision, I really think it is wrong to send Commissioners home to do so. We simply disagree on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u158	I think it is very formalistic, because you represent the interests of all those taxpayers, all those Dutch people who put €2,000 per person in that bank. If that bank makes a decision, whether it may or not, which is harmful to the bank.................................................................................................................................................................................................. But this is a new time. Now the people are on the zero line. Now a thousand people are being fired and now €100,000 extra salary is being awarded. In that context of the new era in which that bank moves, you must assess that decision. Then you could still say: I find it unacceptable, I'm not going to defend it; either you come out with it, or I bring it out myself, and I burn you all the way down to your ankles, because I find it unacceptable. You could have said that. In Zalm's letter, you are compared to the Pope. "The Minister's opinion is more important to us than that of the Pope." In other words, you may not have formally had the opportunity to intervene, but you obviously had all the possibilities.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u159	I abstract the fact that Mr Zalm is Protestant and therefore the Pope's authority is probably not that great. But this joke aside. Let us say that if Mr Van Dijck had been a minister, he would have done it quite differently. Then he had come out but had not defended the decision but demolished the board to the ground. Then he would have been standing here and asked why he wouldn't have just intervened. In the ultimate situation described by Mr Van Dijck, in the given legal situation with the administrative arrangements, the only option you still have is to give up trust in the supervisory board. Mr Van Dijck could have done that, not me. He may criticize me for that, but I stand by that consideration.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u160	If it is true that the Minister would indeed be so displeased and he knows that it would cause such a huge commotion in society, then I wonder why he did not report it to us a year ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u161	A lot of questions have been asked about that. I've informed the Chamber at two moments. In mid-2013, in response to questions from Mr Merkies, I gave a total overview of what the legal possibility of that conversion, the conversion of bonuses into fixed salaries, meant in practice. For most State-aided companies, this has led to a conversion factor around 16, one to a conversion factor 0 and one to a conversion factor 20. That's what I reported. I also said that ABN AMRO had been decided to abandon it once in 2012 and 2013. This was then discussed again in the debate on the Wbfo, i.e. the law I tabled with the ceiling on bonuses. At that time, I informed the Chamber again, but I should like to say in all honesty that I once again said that ABN AMRO had abandoned this once in 2012 and 2013. At that time, and possibly already in March, I should have said explicitly that this means that it started in 2014.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u162	I am glad that I asked those written questions at the time, because that is why we knew at least that that decision had been taken to abandon it for 2012 and 2013. To say that we have to assume implicitly that it is in 2014 is not correct, because a year ago that was the subject of that discussion. Then it was decided not to abandon it in 2014. That is not a formal decision, but it is a decision, just as a decision was taken in 2012 and 2013. Shouldn't the minister have brought that out?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u163	In fact, the situation was that the contracts had been modified. There had been an increase in wages and the board of directors gave up twice on a voluntary basis. In 2014 they didn't do that anymore. This was also reported in ABN's annual report in previous years. The remuneration policy is always accounted for in the annual report. But, once again, in retrospect, for example, in that debate on the bonus law, I could, or perhaps should, have added to it: that means that in 2014 the decision will simply be dealt with.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u164	I love austere finance ministers, but the Minister is now very sober in apologizing. Does the Minister of Finance regret that he did not explicitly report to the Chamber in October that this was the case? If he had done so, it would also have become clear in October how things were in the Chamber. I am extending it a little, because the Minister just said: with retroactive effect, I cannot reverse a legal decision. That is exactly what happened to variable remuneration in 2010.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u165	Mr Koolmees drew another parallel between the discussion in 2010 on the bonus and the salary increase. The bonus in 2010 was never accepted. There has been constant discussion as to whether that bonus was lawful, whether it was appropriate and whether it could still be within the appropriate legal framework. NLFI and Finance have always said: "Sorry, it can't be done. We don't agree. Show us the shareholder's signature; we never agreed to that." ABN AMRO had a different memory and finally the conclusion was: that bonus goes away. The remuneration decision for the salary increases has gone well. You can now have a view on that. I have one and I think I share it broadly with the whole Chamber, but that decision has gone well. It's really two different positions. My ability to intervene was really different.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u166	I understand the Minister's argument. However, the difference is that in 2010 the Minister used the argument that social and legal conditions had changed and for the other component of remuneration: that is what we agreed at the time. However, he also indicates at the same time, including to the Board of Directors and the Supervisory Board of ABN AMRO, that it is harmful to the bank if it continues. And that just before an IPO! We've seen the commotion of the past few weeks and the IPO has been postponed. I would like to say that ABN AMRO has done a great deal of damage. In retrospect, wouldn't it have been much better to pronounce the word unacceptable and say "this is not going to happen"? If not, wouldn't it have been much better to discuss with the Chamber how the Chamber looks at this? The Chamber was now completely overwhelmed by this decision on 20 March.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u167	In October, however, it was my intention to outline to the Chamber the full palette of all the discussions on remuneration and the developments in it. I do charge myself afterwards that I did not say at the time: ladies and gentlemen, understand that this means that it came into force in 2014. We could have had the debate by then. By the way, that would have been exactly the same debate. Mr Koolmees probably said to me that I should not accept it and that I had extensive and intrusive discussions with ABN AMRO on this subject, but that it was a fact that the decision was passed neatly and was approved by all those involved, namely the legislator, the shareholder and the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u168	The difference is that the Chamber could have ruled on it. I'm going back a little bit in time. This was discussed with the Minister in March 2014. I wonder why he didn't report it to the Chamber at the time. He could say that it was a decision that had actually been taken two years earlier and was only then effective, but in the years before, that legal possibility had not been used. That is also how we think the banking sector should work: not everything that is allowed by law should be done. Now they are doing it, and that seems to me to be a fact that should be reported to the Chamber. What was the Minister's consideration not to report it to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u169	The recital was twofold. On the one hand, it was simply a stand-alone decision that the ABN Summit had received a salary increase of 16.7%, with the remark that they had abandoned it in 2012 and 2013. That fact was well known to the Chamber, because it had been changed with the Chamber. On the other hand, all aspects of remuneration policy, including pension arrangements and the like, are reported in the annual report published in March. Mr Klaver now says that I could have reported it immediately in March or October. He's right about that, but those two facts were already there. It was standing policy; no new decision had been taken. That existing decision was known and the Chamber knew that it would not be introduced for two years. There have been many moments in between.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u170	We knew that it would not be introduced for two years, but that it would not be introduced in the third year. I really appreciate the fact that this minister has put up with his bonus bill against bonuses and salaries in the banking sector. I believe that the Minister has a good sense of what is going on in society and of the embedding of the financial sector in society. His fine political feeling, as the Prime Minister would have said, should have indicated that this would not be accepted by the House of Representatives and society. Even though it was a stand-alone decision, it was very legalistic to say that he did not have to inform the Chamber. He should have said to the Chamber at that time: pay attention, the space that has not been used for two years will be used in 2014?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u171	That was my intention in the debate in October, when we met again to discuss the whole of the legislation. I did not do that explicitly enough, which I did intend to do, because I have no interest in keeping these things away from you. This decision was implemented in 2014. Once again, I would like to point out that in March, October or even now, the Chamber could have found something, but that the Chamber is also a legislator. If things have gone well in terms of legislation and decision-making, the Chamber can only appeal. This compelling profession has also been created, coupled with a great deal of criticism from one's own organisation, the employees and society. All of this has led to the abandonment of it. That is the only thing I can actually see. The Chamber cannot just say: we did agree to this legally in 2012 and we knew it, because we were informed about this in 2013, but we do not want it retroactively. That is not possible in terms of working conditions, even among top drivers. I hope you accept that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u172	The Minister is right that the decision was taken. That is not disputed here either. It is more about what prevented him from reporting that explicitly to the Chamber after all, in the sense of: pay attention, dear Chamber, the decision is now being dealt with?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u173	There's nothing that's kept me from doing that. At that time, I considered that it was just a standing decision that was implemented and that ABN AMRO itself is accountable for its remuneration policy, but that will only happen afterwards, of course, in March, when the annual report is published. Later, in October, I realized this. Then I outlined the whole palette of bonuses and salary increases from ABN AMRO to the Chamber. What I failed to do at the time... I think so myself, because my intention was precisely to inform the Chamber fully about all the discussions that were going on and on. I myself feel that I failed to do so at the time. I should have just said straight forward that the 2012 salary increase had started by now; "be aware of that."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u174	It's a good thing the Minister says he should've done it differently. That seems to me to be the conclusion on this point, but he had still foreseen that this would produce a commotion. I think he himself said he expected the whole Chamber to jump up when he reported it in October. The room didn't jump up. The Minister knows the Chamber well enough to know that we normally do. Wasn't that a signal for him to name this after all? Or did he think, "Great, I got off and it's okay?"
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u175	No, because if that had been my naïve idea, that wasn't the case, of course I knew that at some point, for example in ABN's annual report, the remuneration policy is simply made public, as is the case with all companies. Once again, I really intended to provide full information about this in that debate. That was also a logical moment, because we were talking again about the remuneration policy at banks. I should have explained what a one-time delay meant. I didn't realize that until afterwards. So the answer to your question is whether I didn't think of that right away is: I realized that afterwards, when I was wondering why the Chamber was sitting. I believe that one of my colleagues said to me at the time: you didn't say it loudly either. Yeah, okay, that's true.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u176	Have you finished your section on remuneration policy or did you have a piece of text on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u177	I have a few more factual questions to answer. We've had the big line. Mr Omtzigt asked when it had entered into force. Mr Van Slingelandt said that it started in March. That is a factual error on the part of Mr Van Slingelandt. It was only implemented in the month of June and then paid retroactively to the members of the Management Board for 2014. I checked it again, because I also heard Mr Van Slingelandt say that. I thought, "Wait a minute, I said something else!" I checked it again, so it started in June. Mr Nijboer has asked whether I can guarantee that there will certainly be no new bonuses or salary increases until the company is fully privatised. I can guarantee him that. This is really a matter of the past. By the way, there were many issues from the past, because the bonuses also came from 2010, for example. This was also a decision of 2012. Between now and the moment we sell our last share, there will be no more bonuses at the top or for the layer below. Salary increases are also excluded. I believe that the only agreement is that the salaries of the directors of ABN AMRO are linked to the general banking cao. If something happens in relation to inflation or something like that, ABN AMRO's directors will also receive a percentage. That is why they have also gone from €600,000 to €607 000 in recent years. I'm not going to revoke that appointment; that seems to me to be too childish. Here's the deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u178	Mr Omtzigt, I know that you were the first to be on the interrupting microphone, but this was an answer to Mr Nijboer's question. So I'll give him the floor first.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u179	I thank the Minister for this clarity. There is still the law that allows this increase of a tonne, which has now been waived once. Can I assume that there was a structural withdrawal from that tonne? Are we not having the same kind of discussion next year or in two years' time because a supervisory board says that it is all legal because the signature of the previous minister is still underneath it? I'd really like to be assured of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u180	Yes, that's how I understood your question. Your question was: is it now certain that there will be no further increases in wages and that this 16.7% will not come up again as long as the State still has one share? The answer is: yes, that's for sure; that's not going to happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u181	Thank you for that clear answer. If I sum it up correctly, this means that there will be no additional bonuses or salary increases on top of regular collective bargaining increases and so on throughout the privatisation process. There will also be no other forms of incentive payments, such as phantom stocks or whatever one can imagine in the financial sector, paid to the top of the company, including the low below. Does this also apply to the completion of privatisation, or is it only during the entire privatisation process?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u182	It's until the time of the sale of the last share. There can therefore be no bonus paid a year later on the basis, for example, of the performance of the market. Once the company is sold and in private hands, of course, the 20% ceiling for bonuses applies. In the future, ABN AMRO will be able to introduce a form of incentive payment or bonuses up to the maximum of 20%, but not over the period in which the State was still the owner. I think that is the answer to your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u183	That's clear. During privatisation and after completion of privatisation, as a reward for completing privatisation, no bonus payments, additional increases or other forms of share and option-related profits will take place before the ABN AMRO summit.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u184	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u185	I welcome the commitment to Mr Nijboer. In the coming period, as long as the bank is in the hands of the state, that tonne will no longer be added, if I may sum it up easily. That guarantees the Minister, but how can he guarantee that? To me and his colleagues he made a full statement that he could not stop it in March 2014, that he had no means whatsoever, that it had all been approved and so on. What means does the Minister now have to guarantee this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u186	Because the Management Board and the Supervisory Board agree. And then it's relatively simple.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u187	I find it really remarkable that the Minister can do that now, a year later, but also says: in March 2014 my hands were tied, I could not do anything, because the Chamber would have agreed to this and my predecessor had signed it. Now, however, the Minister says quite easily: I have talked about it with the supervisory board and the board of directors and they agree, so it is not going to happen. Surely the Minister understands that it's a little strange that apparently so much has changed in a year? Last year he was powerless and now he can just guarantee it won't happen. I welcome it and it is also quite right that it does not happen, but I find it striking.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u188	I do not know where Mr Klaver has been for the past three weeks, but I think that since the moment this information came out, something has happened and got over ABN AMRO. I'm not saying that to provoke pity. I'm just saying that as a fact. That fact, the huge criticism from society and politics, wide out of the Chamber, and certainly also from its own staff to its own directors within the bank, has led to the directors and Commissioners saying: a line underneath it, we are abandoning it. That is not a question of powerlessness, but of taking it seriously, as I say in connection with the hearing, of the criticism that has come to light. Certainly not in the last place was the point, which was also part of my criticism: how does this relate to our own employees? It is precisely the criticism of our own employees that has rightly had a great deal of impact.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u189	All the more reason to report to the public, because this shows what public pressure does. The Minister of Finance keeps saying: I have implicitly reported it. Honestly, I don't see how the Minister implicitly reported it. Until last March 7th, he didn't know that they would give up on that extra €100,000 in 2014. That was new information for the Minister of Finance at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u190	Sure. And, of course, in the answers to Mr Merkies' parliamentary questions in the summer of 2013, I could not say anything about 2014. That's why I only wrote that the board members themselves, willingly, had given up for 2012 and 2013. That was a decision at the time: we will abandon it for 2012 and 2013. That's what I reported in 2013. Then I was told in May 2014: das war einmal, that's over now, it goes in from now on. Then the discussion arose with the well-known outcome. In October of that year, when we again had an extensive debate in the Chamber on rewards and bonuses, I outlined the whole picture of all the discussions I had with ABN AMRO. In that debate, it remained too implicit that they only abandoned it in 2012 and 2013. I did say that they didn't do it in 2012 and 2013, but I should have said that explicitly: that means that they won't do it in 2014. I couldn't have reported that to the Chamber before.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u191	At least now we have clear that the Minister says he did not implicitly report it in the reply to my written questions in 2013. In fact, he is saying that the moment when I mentioned it implicitly for the first time was in that debate in October last year. But what exactly did he say? Should we have realised from his remark "it was in 2012 and 2013" that there was no change in 2014? He can't call that "Login to the Chamber"? That's very implicit. Was that really the Minister of Finance's report?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u192	Mr Merkies will come back to it again, but my answer will not change. My answer is that the members of the Management Board themselves, voluntarily, have indicated at any time that they will refrain from doing so for the years 2012 and 2013. That is the decision they have taken once and made known...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u193	Yes, but what was your implied report? That's my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u194	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u195	I already shared that information with you in 2013. I did so again in the debate in October 2014. I could have added: that means, ladies and gentlemen, that it did come into force in 2014. After all, the decision was to abandon it once, in 2012 and 2013. I can say three times that it should have been more explicit and better, but I do not think it will be stronger.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u196	I shall go a little further on Mr Klaver's question. Now, if you look at what has been going on in the past week in terms of commotion, frustration and irritation in society and politics towards the ABN AMRO summit, these are really all matters against which the Minister warned in 2014 when the ABN AMRO summit decided to increase the fixed salaries. I have a question of conscience for the Minister. How does he now judge, looking back at his own actions on this file? Should it have been different?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u197	On the issue of explicitly informing about 2014 in 2014, it should have been different. But what Mr Koolmees is actually suggesting is: shouldn't you have checked the bomb and set it off sooner? That's not my administrative style. When I speak to the directors of ABN AMRO from my responsibility as legislator, shareholder and minister, and I come to a certain conclusion that bonus really cannot, I am not going to accept that, of the salary increase, I have to say that it has been legally and administratively correct and that my predecessor has accepted all of this and I understand that; moreover, I do think it is a bit of it and know that I am not going to let the bomb go out on the street, hoping that the riot will break out quickly, after which they will return to their steps. That's not how I'm gonna be. That is why, when it came out, on Friday 20 March, to which Mr Koolmees referred, I immediately said: politically and legally this was done correctly, and I also know that I have difficulty defending it. I will defend it, I said, because that is how it happened, but I think it is extremely important. That's what I've been saying ever since, and I'm gonna keep finding it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u198	The Minister answers a question I have not asked; I understand the answer. In March 2014, the Minister said to ABN AMRO's summit: undesirable, it is damaging to the bank. These are the words of the Minister in the first instance. He advised the ABN AMRO summit not to do so. A year and three weeks later you see commotion, disturbed relations, hassle and frustration among the employees, which is indeed what the minister warned you about a year ago. With that in mind, would it not have been wiser to say harder a year ago: you really shouldn't do this, you really should give up on this voluntarily, because this is really bad for me as a shareholder, for the value of ABN AMRO, for the public purse and for the trust of the employees in the ABN AMRO summit?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u199	Firstly, I have indicated to ABN AMRO in the strongest possible terms: do not do this. I have done so for many reasons, which we have exchanged. I did not go as far as Mr Koolmees by using the word 'acceptable'. If one does not bow then one can leave. If it had been a new decision on a new issue, I wouldn't have moved. There are some new issues on which I simply give my opinion when I am formally in need of my approval. Of course, this does not apply to a lot of business matters. But this wasn't a new decision. I had to deal with this reality, and I think the Chamber as legislator too. How do I look back on my own actions? I also deeply regret the situation which has arisen, because the bank has now been damaged. Could it have been otherwise? Looking back at those conversations, I think the only way it could have been otherwise would have been if I'd gone through with my leg and fired the board of directors. Once again, for a decision that was taken neatly in 2012 and with everyone's agreement, I think that goes too far and cannot.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u200	Stretched leg? You could have said, "Listen, I'm not gonna defend this." Maybe you're legally and corporately right on your side, but I'm not going to defend this as a representative of the people and minister of all taxpayers. They would have scratched themselves three times behind their ears. The Minister said for an hour that he could not do anything about it, because they were agreements with a signature of his predecessor, while after a call from Mr Nijboer it is off the table: until the last share has been sold, there will be no bonus and no salary increase, but purely the collective agreement will still be followed. Can we see the document containing the appointment with the board and the supervisory board and the signature of the minister, which does not include the 2012 agreement, which the minister first said he had to commit himself to, but which is now apparently out of the question? Can we have that piece?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u201	No, because I don't have one of those. I made a deal with them. Do you know why I can meet them? That's because they agreed. The directors and the supervisory board who are responsible for this, in fact, give back their legal rights, which they really have acquired nicely, with open eyes. They say, "Forget it! I can't force that. I cannot, with retroactive effect, take away from people their working conditions which they are legally entitled to, whatever else I think of them, unless they are told to do so themselves. That's why it went the way it did. I also note that the PVV did not vote in favour of the SP amendment on conversion. That amendment has been tabled twice. It is remarkable that the PVV Group is now speaking at the highest level, while it has twice had the chance to make that conversion impossible, which I am legally defending.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u202	As far as we are concerned, the beaming standard is sufficient for drivers. The amendment was based on six tonnes and 20%. As far as we are concerned, they can earn top incomes according to the beaming standard and the Law standards. What matters, however, is where it says...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u203	No, no, no, Mr. Merkies.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u204	I'm just saying there's some bullshit in here. This is just not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u205	Mr Merkies, you'll have a chance. Mr Van Dijck is at the beginning of an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u206	The Top Income Standards Act would be sufficient for ABN AMRO as a state bank. However, what matters is where the agreement with the drivers states that they will refrain from any wage increase and any bonus, and from the €100,000 already agreed in 2012 which is now being waived for the third year. Where is that agreed and where is it officially established? Apparently it's a deal, but then it's got to be somewhere. Now it might be a matter of a light-hearted one: well, you know what, there's so much commotion, we're gonna give it up, but that same commotion could start again next year, just before an IPO goes out.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u207	I don't think so. The fact that the 2010 bonus has been waived is stated in the correspondence that the Chamber already has. I have been informed that we are now abandoning the 16.7% previously agreed. I don't have that in black and white yet. I also think that the Chamber should not have all these pieces. When I tell the Chamber that this has been agreed, the Chamber must also have some confidence in it. If it turns out that it is not, then the Chamber has every reason to send me away immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u208	I would like to give the floor to Mr Merkies, who wanted to correct something.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u209	Mr Van Dijck makes a statement, but it is simply not. This amendment was just about getting that 20% standard out and it didn't say anything about the level, which we did, of course, say something about at other times.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u210	That's what's written in the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u211	That's true. The SP has never tabled amendments to set up fixed salaries on its own. The PVV did it again. So, honor who deserves credit! I would like to make one more point about the IPO: it has not been cancelled. I say this explicitly to Mr Van Dijck. Maybe that's what he was hoping for, and maybe that's what others are hoping for, but he's not. We have already decided that the way forward is for ABN AMRO: back to the market through an IPO. We have also dealt with alternatives in the letter, which, by the way, is very comprehensive. That's how we talked about a co-operative. We have had a wide-ranging debate on this. Not everyone agrees; some say that you should not sell at all, others say that you should not sell yet and others say that it should become a cooperative. However, a majority has agreed that we continue the path towards the IPO. In the letter I also wrote that in the first quarter it will be decided when it really starts. That cabinet decision has only been postponed. Mr Omtzigt asked in the course of the work whether the postponement was a cabinet decision or a decision of the Minister for Finance. A trade minister has quite a lot of powers to put matters on the agenda of the Council of Ministers, but in this case I have found it with the Prime Minister and the Deputy Prime Minister. Then I decided not to raise it until Friday the 27th. As far as I am concerned, it will soon be back on the agenda, but that still requires a number of steps to be taken. We are talking about the issues that I will discuss very briefly: Dubai, the monitoring letter and so on. However, I would like to say in all honesty that ABN AMRO is making great progress in business operations and in results. That was one of the conditions: is the company itself ready to start the IPO? Another condition was the answer to the question: is the financial sector as a whole ready? The third condition: is there sufficient interest in shares of this type of bank at the moment, so that you can also get a reasonable price for them? So the test of whether it's time, we've postponed. It will be resubmitted to the Council of Ministers as soon as possible. I would suggest that we re-enter the debate. I will try again to convince some of the spokesmen that we are making a good decision. We'll see if there's a majority for that. A number of aspects have been highlighted in the previous debate in the Chamber: defining the social position and the role of the bank in the statutes, the protection structure and the costs of the stock exchange. Once again, attention has been paid to the role that institutional investors, patient investors, could play. For example, there were a number of other issues, also expressed in motions for resolutions, about which we will be able to discuss again when the cabinet decision on the start is submitted to the Chamber. We will then go back to these aspects.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u212	How much has been incurred so far for the IPO?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u213	I can't say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u214	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u215	So far, no costs have been incurred for the IPO itself. However, costs are incurred to prepare the company for the market: all kinds of improvements in business operations and results, investments and so on. There is a club people within ABN AMRO working on an explicit project to prepare the IPO. But please don't ask me to visualize all that. That would really be a pretty pointless exercise. On the real cost of the market, namely that of selling and rolling out, we will go into the letter. For example, Mr Nijboer has explicitly drawn attention to this. He is deeply concerned that it will be far too expensive and that the business banks that we will hire will then take on far too much. So we shall deal with that. By the way, there are many misunderstandings about the IPO. If we had decided on the 27th IPO, it wouldn't have started right away. It would only be the formal signal to ABN AMRO that everything has to be prepared. The actual IPO is only there when you apply for the stock exchange listing. That moment is not certain at all. The decision on the day on which we are going to apply for stock exchange listing will also be taken later. Then we also decide what the initial price will be, what the allocation will be et cetera. So it's really a kicked process. I also hear a lot of misunderstandings about selling the bank in one go. That was never meant to happen. That would also be very unwise. It happens in instalments. The volume of such a tranche may be 10%, 15% or 20%. So it will be very gradual. The Court must therefore realise that the sale may take years. I say that also because some people already seem to know that we have missed billions of dollars in this discussion about rewards. That is entirely speculative. "Yes, but the stock market is so high now." Yeah, so what? If we had now decided on the IPO, it might have taken place in October/November. Maybe the stock market will be very low again. It's all speculative. I think we should take a lot more rest. We're gonna do this process carefully. We'll get the bank ready for that. Then we decide and ensure that we achieve an optimal profit, within the public framework conditions that we will set.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u216	Mr Van Dijck, a brief question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u217	Yeah, a quick question. It's really weird that you're gonna call off the IPO first and let the Prime Minister say a week later, well, this year's gonna work. The decision in question concerned an IPO in September. The only thing you have achieved is: because of all the commotion we have postponed the decision and now it is not September, but a month or two months later. What is the trigger for the Minister to announce the IPO now? Is that the requirement for internal control to be in order, as mentioned by DNB? Is it "Dubai"? Is it the salary issue? On what grounds is the bank now ready and the Minister says: okay, now we can announce it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u218	This brings me to my last two topics: "Dubai" and the DNB monitoring letter, which unfortunately has been leaked. Let me get my answers. In general, the Cabinet assesses whether the company is sufficiently prepared, whether it is in good shape itself, whether the market is interested in it and whether the financial sector is sufficiently stable to carry that privatisation without risk. That's gonna take a lot. Many cases are mentioned in the DNB's monitoring letter. By the way, all banks in the Netherlands receive letters of this kind. The themes are sometimes the same. The theme of anti-corruption and integrity, for example, was a specific theme research conducted by DNB in 2013. DNB then went through all the big banks to see how that was secured. Vulnerabilities have been seen: that is not properly regulated, that needs to be formalized, that does not work properly. The banks involved have all received such a letter. Then all these banks also started working, including ABN. A number of cases have been resolved to the satisfaction of DNB. The letter that has been leaked shows that a number of things still need to be improved. Sometimes that is just that a decision really needs to be formalized. In other words, the Supervisory Board must also formally decide that this is the new protocol. Some things have already happened. They were completed last year or early this year or will be completed this month. That's all going concern, I'd almost say. I do not want to be too light about it, because vulnerabilities in the fight against corruption or relations with third parties must, of course, be avoided and addressed. That is precisely why DNB conducts this type of investigation with the banks. People are asking if they've got their shit in order. And, yes, ABN AMRO needs to do further work on this, but my picture is that a lot of work has been done and that there is already a great deal of work to be done. However, I would like to leave that to the supervisor, because it is also simply the supervisory authority's responsibility to see to it. I don't know if the situation with other banks is the same, because I don't have that information. Again, it's supervisory confidentiality. It has been said that I will soon be able to put my hand in the prospectus, but also in a general sense, when it comes to the Stock Exchange. That is what I have to do with my other hand. This is ensured in various ways. First of all, the supervision of DNB continues. Even after the stock exchange, the bank remains under the supervision of DNB. It will regularly walk into the bank to see if things are in order and to ask how business is handled. This will always lead to further improvements. That's regular surveillance. A number of aspects may be important, because the prospectus must, of course, include a very comprehensive risk section. By the way, that's what happens at every IPO. Every possible risk is reported there. Claims and claims made by someone in the Chamber are also reported there. They may result from legal proceedings. Against an average large bank in the Netherlands, dozens of court cases are conducted at the same time, by people who have ever had a problem or do not feel right. All possible claims of any substance should be dealt with in the risk section of that prospectus. For this, of course, the directors of the bank are primarily responsible and really responsible. In addition, it is supervised. The AFM monitors the robustness of the prospectus. And, of course, I am politically responsible that we are not fooling around there... that we are not wronging the truth, let me put it nicely. In addition to the prospectus, there is the statement of no objection. DNB will also go through the aspects of the bank's internal control, again in the light of the IPO. He'll see if the bank's ready. We'll see about that. If the Nederlandsche Bank says that he thinks some things are not in order, then of course the Stock Exchange cannot take place. That's how the order's gonna be.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u219	I think I was a little more shocked by that letter from the Dutch Bank. This may be a regular investigation with all other banks, but it is clear that they cannot detect things like corruption properly, that the event is floating. That means you just have to figure it out by accident. I cannot imagine that this minister himself would not have wanted to know if this bank were to go public. The NLFI apparently didn't know about it either. Suppose this bank goes to the stock market and at that point it turns out that there is indeed a corruption scandal. Well, then as a finance minister, you'd have a problem bringing that bank to the market, wouldn't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u220	I'm gonna have to be very specific. The letter from DNB doesn't say there are corruption scandals. Again, that letter was sent to all major banks in the context of the anti-corruption and integrity research. The letter from DNB states where there are vulnerabilities, that this must be adapted, that the protocols must be in order, that the front desk should be more involved etc. Many of these have now been addressed and others need to be addressed. I'm not waving it away either. They asked if the minister should have known. There's no way you're gonna get that answer with a ruler. In general, I do not need to know everything about what is exchanged almost daily in the supervisory relationship between DNB and ABN AMRO. A lot of people work at DNB. Most of them are banking supervision. They monitor many aspects of business operations: from payments, to the business bank, capital ratios, integrity, appointments and rewards. All aspects are now under surveillance. If DNB or ABN AMRO constantly informs me about what is going on, I do not see the function of this. The Chamber did not want that either. The Chamber has asked Mr Weekers' motion to put NLFI in between. So it's all kicked. Matters for which the Executive Board and the Supervisory Board are responsible must be resolved within the bank. A number of cases require involvement, or at least informing shareholder NLFI. I would like to know about some things, for example because they can become an issue in the Chamber, although that is sometimes difficult to predict. There are some things I need to know formally, because I need to formally approve. That's all arranged and kicked. I do not want to know everything if that would be at the heart of Mr Merkies' speech, nor do I want to know everything in the supervisory relationship between DNB and the bank. That really doesn't serve any purpose.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u221	I think there's something different going on than any company going to the market. I think the Minister is very vulnerable in that way. Also NLFI apparently didn't know about it. Then there is the risk, I am not saying that it is true, that it is necessary to find out that there is corruption, and that the Minister is in the meantime bringing the bank to the stock market very nicely. I thought that was gonna be crazy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u222	Sometimes truths are very annoying to hear, but there is of course that risk. ABN AMRO is a very large group. Even if internal control is completely in order and all those protocols etc. that DNB asks for are implemented and work well, then there may still be corruption somewhere in the bank, which I do not know about, nor NLFI or the supervisory board and the board of directors. That may also be the case when ABN is sold. That is the reality. All you're obligated to do is make sure that everything is as well as possible in advance. DNB has pointed out weaknesses, so they need to be addressed. If you sell, you have to expose all the risks you know. They're supposed to be in the prospectus. If things come up that aren't in the prospectus afterwards, it could lead to legal proceedings. That's the real world. That's the way it's gonna be with IPOs. You can't know everything at any time. Even if you've implemented all the laws and regulations 100%, things can go wrong in such a big company.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u223	I'm not asking what the minister couldn't know and what else could come up. I am concerned about postponing the decision on the IPO. I asked earlier today whether this had anything to do with the increase in salaries. The Minister replied that it had to do with many more aspects. He mentioned the coverage of Dubai and the letter from DNB. A number of things came to light that did not make the social climate in which a decision was to be taken on this IPO would be correct. Now, less than two weeks later, the Minister says that this decision should be dealt with in the Council of Ministers as soon as possible. I sincerely wonder what has changed in the last few weeks. What has changed in the last two weeks when it comes to Dubai or the letter from DNB?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u224	The fact that I say that I hope to bring this up as soon as possible before the Council of Ministers does not mean that it will be discussed in the Council of Ministers next Friday. The condition of rest and trust must still be fulfilled. How do I see that condition? For me, the most important thing is that the exchange of information, which has now taken place with the Chamber, has been the many written questions, two or even three letters and this debate on the Chamber. It is important that we have clarified a number of things with each other and determined where we stand and what we want. Whether that is sufficient remains to be seen, because the debate is not even over. The simple fact that the Prime Minister has said that he expects it to be possible this year or that I am now saying that I hope to be able to do so as soon as possible does not say so much. We will have to see when we think it is time. I think it is important that a number of things have been clarified. As I said, such a supervisory letter from DNB, which I don't need to know at all, is just business by the bank. As soon as that letter is public, hundreds of questions can be asked. Those are stated, which I have also stated, and they need to be answered. Only when ABN AMRO has responded adequately can we take another step forward. It is up to the Chamber today to establish that and, of course, to the supervisor.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u225	It is not a question of what information the Minister has. It concerns the justification for postponing the IPO for the time being. That happened a week or two ago, but when I hear the Prime Minister say that the bank should go to the stock market this year, and the Minister of Finance says 'I hope to be able to deal with this decision as soon as possible in the Council of Ministers', I wonder what has changed in recent times. From the Minister's answer, I would point out that the IPO is not at all certain in 2015. It could just take longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u226	As far as I am concerned, a number of questions raised in the social and certainly also in this political debate must first be answered and exchanged. We will then be able to determine with each other whether this has achieved some peace and confidence, in order to use these terms again. We shall then discuss it again in the Cabinet. It is my ambition that that peace and trust should return as soon as possible, surely. It would also be crazy if I said, "Forget it, it doesn't matter." Of course, I hope that they will return soon, that we will succeed, that the bank will succeed and that I will succeed. Then we'll get back on track. Again, the cabinet still believes that the IPO is a good way forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u227	Last year we held a debate in principle on the future of ABN AMRO. At that time, the Minister set three conditions for the sale of the stock: the market must be ready, there must be buyers and ABN AMRO must be in good shape and have the place in order. The Minister states that the bank is making progress, the return is good and things are getting straight. The Netherlands Bank has indeed listed a number of points which need to be improved in the coming period. At the same time, the Minister is attacked by a report that there would be possible malpractice in Dubai in mid-2014. The Minister then writes in a letter to the Chamber that he was not aware of this. I was surprised that the Minister had no knowledge of such an important issue. Research is being conducted by a foreign supervisor who is very relevant to such an IPO. That is why I am asking whether the Minister was also surprised that he was not aware of this. I would also ask what the Minister will do to get this sort of thing on the table, because this seems to me to be relevant information for the decision on an IPO.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u228	I would like to take back the fact that things can go wrong in a large group like ABN AMRO. I do not talk it right at all, but the moment it was discovered in Dubai they also intervened. People were fired and the supervisor was immediately informed. Both Dubai's supervisor and the Dutch Bank are now conducting an investigation to see what's going on. On the basis of the information I have received from ABN AMRO, I am saying this so emphatically because I cannot, of course, look or look at ABN Dubai's offices and who has also carried out internal investigations, there is no question of corruption, money laundering, fraud, terrorist financing, etc. There are internal procedures to distinguish between private bank account holders and business bank account holders. Those internal procedures have not been followed. We'll hear the final judgment on that. Is that in itself a reason to delay the IPO? No, the combination of all the fuss around it, the questions that have been asked and the justified criticism of the rewards, was reason for me to say: I am now taking it off the agenda of the Council of Ministers and I shall return to it when that debate has been held. Once again, what information the Minister should have or should not have is not to be drawn with a ruler. If you can give me some practical criteria, I'd like to think about it. My only request to ABN AMRO, which I absolutely did to this bank, is that if you think that this could be an important topic in the public debate, or it could be harmful to the bank's position or affect the stock market, then make sure that I know as soon as possible. Why? I may not be the chairman of the board, but I am being called upon to do so. And that's right, because I'm the shareholder. I manage 100% of the share on your behalf. But, again, it's hard to pull a ruler. Does this mean that any suspicion of integrity or any issue in the bank should be reported to me? Please don't!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u229	I agree with the Minister immediately, but an investigation by a foreign supervisor that is ongoing at the time when the Minister has to decide on an IPO I do find relevant information. I hope the Minister agrees with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u230	I agree. This was an example in which earlier information would at least have been helpful. That's what I talked to ABN about. Without saying "I want to have that and that in future," I have once again informed ABN, which was also mentioned by NLFI at the shareholders' meeting: pay attention, the information at this stage, even as long as you are in the hands of the State but certainly in the run-up to the market, must be as good as possible. I think I have answered the most important questions about Dubai and the DNB letter. There is still work to be done and the investigation into Dubai is now taking place. I also propose that we return to the stock market and the future of the bank on the basis of a very comprehensive letter which will reach the Chamber once the cabinet has decided to launch the Stock Exchange. That will take place later. I do not want to dwell on that for too long. Somewhere in the debate and I believe it was said in the hearing that no compensation for the bonus ceiling is allowed in Belgium. As far as we have been able to verify, this is not the case in Belgium. So there's got to be some kind of misunderstanding. Sweden was also mentioned, but we have not yet been able to verify whether this type of conversion is explicitly prohibited in Sweden. In Belgium, at least, that is not the case in our view. Mrs De Vries also asked questions about switching, a subject which concerns many fathers and mothers in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u231	I did indeed talk about Belgium in connection with the hearing. I remember the previous debate on the bonus ceiling in which the Minister said: 'I think that fixed salaries in the financial sector are too generic for other sectors. Staff costs are too high and this affects competitiveness and financial stability." So this minister believes that salaries in the financial sector are too high. Then there was talk of compensation, that 20% and that ceiling. However, no measure was introduced to prevent, for example, ING from now giving 28% salary increase for compensation. Then the Minister said that he hoped that they would handle it prudently and responsibly. Does the Minister consider what is happening in the sector to be prudent? Nationale-Nederlands is 39% salary increase for the top, at ING 28% salary increase. Does the Minister consider this prudent? Is this what he expected or is he saying it's unacceptable? Maybe he's doing it now and he's putting his fist on the table right now, so that this kind of bonus restrictions are compensated?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u232	No, I do not think that the increase in salaries is prudent, nor is it appropriate in the current circumstances in the financial sector. I do believe that the cost levels in the financial sector are too high and that salaries are too high. Compared to similar functions in similar sectors of society, too much is still being paid in the financial sector. I haven't made a secret of that before. However, one has to realise that you sometimes have a view as a politician and as a minister, without instantly putting or putting legislation against it. The legislation in the Netherlands is based on bonuses. Why do we interfere with bonuses in a private sector, which is the financial sector? We are doing this because the conclusion from the financial crisis has been that the perverse incentives of extreme, exorbitant bonuses have brought great risks to the financial sector, but even worse: for the Dutch economy and the Dutch taxpayer. That makes it legitimate and gives us the legal basis to say that we are tackling the bonuses. Some here, including the PVV, believe that permanent salaries should also be reduced. Of course, that raises many questions, including whether you can maintain that legal status in the private sector. Why in the financial sector and not in other sectors, because large listed companies currently pay much more than in the banking sector? I think that is a much broader debate. In the financial sector, we rely on bonuses. Do I find the current salary increases for the top prudent? No.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u233	In the law we then dealt with, the Rewards Policy Act for Financial Enterprises (Wbfo), there was first a delegation clause. First, there was a ban on compensation in that law, which was advised by the Council of State. Well, that's right. Not out amended, but out advised.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u234	Correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u235	The question is, of course, the following. If it could be done in Belgium or Sweden... The intention of the law was of course to counter the unbridled exhibitionist self-enrichment through bonuses, but that should not mean that through a waterbed construction the fixed salaries go up. Is the Minister prepared to look again at the delegation clause and, if necessary, how it is done in Sweden? I think it is too abject for words that bonuses are now restricted and fixed salaries are rising.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u236	I'm willing to take another look at Sweden. I'm curious about that myself. So that's what we're gonna do. In fact, we had included a hook in the original bill in order to intervene if the increase in salaries was too large. The Council of State has said on legal grounds that we could not do so. Why am I defending this conversion up to 20% salary increase and why did the Chamber approve of that? This is because existing employment contracts intervene. With bonuses that people have previously been promised, which are also in the contract, a line or they are significantly reduced. At ABN AMRO, a line goes through it. In return, because you're taking rights, you have to allow some compensation. That is not 100%; a bonus is not 100% sure either. Therefore, that conversion to 20% was established. Apart from that, the restriction of fixed salaries would face legal objections. The Council of State has pointed this out to us. Again, I find the argument to focus your sec on the bonuses and tackle them strongly. That's a big perverse incentive. We have seen this in recent years before the financial crisis. That's the distinction. Mrs De Vries and others referred to it as switching to other banks. We often talk about this with the Chamber, I would almost say weekly. The Chamber knows the state of play. There is a national changeover service in the Netherlands that makes it as easy as possible for people. This is currently being evaluated by the Dutch Payment Association. This will also be the subject of an opinion from the ACM. We'll see how we can further improve the service. This may be about how the Transition Service works, but it is also possible to improve it by simply raising awareness. We will also ask the Social Consultation on Payment Traffic if it has more insight into the possibilities of making transfers easier. However, the debate in Brussels remains. We have entered European bank numbers. Being able to take your number with you requires European decision-making. I have mentioned this, but I note that this theme unfortunately does not live in other countries. That will therefore require a little effort, but I am also committed to doing so in Europe. Mr Krol has advocated the setting up of a State Committee on Social Rewards. No, I have to rephrase. He advocated a more social pay structure for the financial sector. We have just made, and not for the first time, a comprehensive law. It's about the rewards in the financial sector. This law replaces a number of existing schemes, such as the State-supported banks Act. They were all brought together in the Wbfo. It just came into force on February 7th. That is why I do not feel like starting the study project again, as it were. The law just stands. I am not saying it to boast, but it is true that this is the strictest law in Europe when it comes to remuneration in the financial sector. I now want to ensure that this law is properly implemented. So no state committee, with your permission. I think I answered the questions with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u237	I have asked some crucial questions about the Commissioners. I actually want to know what the Minister of Finance thought about last Tuesday's hearing and what his qualification was. I would also like to know whether he thinks that this Board of Commissioners of ABN AMRO is still suitable for continuing to do its work. Does he think that the Commissioners should remain seated?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u238	That last question is simple. Yes, I think that, despite the fact that we had a different assessment of whether the inclusion of the salary increase was sensible and whether that would be positive or negative for the bank. With damage and shame we have seen what its effect has been. I regret that. I followed the hearing with interest. Indeed, you can see that the Commissioners responsible for remuneration policy are looking at this with a different perspective. They are not blind to the social debate, but they are looking at it with a different perspective, namely from international competition. Personally, I think that this is a stronger story for some institutions than for others. AEGON is really a large international group that has most people and most activities outside the Netherlands, for example in America. This is already less true for ING, but ING is a large international group, although it is much more European. ABN AMRO is, of course, a Dutch bank. They do have activities abroad, but they are really much and much smaller than in the period before The prey could be written. That is my view. So the argument of international competition is far from being equally strong for everyone. In the law we have also made a distinction: groups and international holding companies, even if they are Dutch, which have most of their activities outside the Netherlands, get a different position. So we took that into account back then. For the rest, I think that Mr Van Slingelandt has also said that this decision should not have been taken, given the criticism and value I attach to it. That is my view.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u239	What I am also concerned about is the attitude expressed by the Board of Commissioners of ABN AMRO. In fact, the Commissioners continue to persevere, saying that if it had been up to us, that tonne would still have been given extra. I would like a qualification from the Minister of Finance of that attitude. On that basis, does he still have confidence in this Supervisory Board and what else can he do with it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u240	The Supervisory Board has its own position and may also have its own opinion. The Commissioners are not officials of the Ministry of Finance. Secondly, I have also heard Mr Van Slingelandt say that, in the light of the whole debate and the discussion that has taken place, he also thinks that things should have been different. Thirdly, Mr Van Slingelandt has put a great deal of emphasis on good employership. That is one aspect that we cannot completely throw aside. After all, we, too, agreed that the contracts of directors were adjusted in 2012 and that the salary increase was included. In any case, I am referring to the shareholder, NLFI, the minister. In any event, the Chamber made that legally possible and also knew in 2013 that it had taken place. The Commissioner is the employer of the drivers. He must also say: I once offered them this, this is in their contract, so they are entitled to it. I think that weighting should have taken place differently. In his own way, Mr Van Slingelandt has said the same. It's a well-known fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u241	I am not concerned that you could not make mistakes and that a board of Commissioners should be completely flawless, but the point goes deeper. Mr Van Slingelandt did say that he regretted the commotion. He even talked about the emotion he regretted, but not about the decision itself. In fact, he made a speech in which he tried to convince us that in the market in which he operates there are no good people to be found for much less money. This reveals something else, namely that these bank directors are still aware of the mentality of 2008; "we have to pay a lot to bring that talent in." That worries me. How does the Minister view that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u242	I do not have all the quotes by Mr Van Slingelandt here with me, but there was a little more reflection in it than you are now suggesting. Secondly, he has once again strongly emphasised his role as an employer of the directors and the obligations he has. Thirdly, he defended the initial decision. That's what I think is right. That was the initial decision of the Supervisory Board and so you have to explain why you came to that decision. He did. The bottomline is, of course, that that decision has been reversed and that the directors, with the approval of the supervisory board, are now definitively abandoning it. You cannot agree with that, but Mr Van Slingelandt has simply justified why the Supervisory Board considered that the 2012 decision should now be implemented.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u243	I don't think it's the bottomline that paid the salaries back. The bottomline is that we wanted another bank, that we want a cultural change at that bank. When I hear the supervisory board, I think: when they get the chance and are out of government hands, those salaries will blow up again, because they keep saying: we operate in an international market, we are free entrepreneurs. They don't see themselves as part of this society. I am concerned about this aspect, not whether they have done the right thing in the end, and whether that reward is being reversed. But I am very concerned about this mentality, which I call the mentality before 2008. I think that the Minister is getting over that a little too easily and is trying to repeat Mr Van Slingeland's words at the hearing, which simply explained what he was doing. How does the Minister assess the competence of this Supervisory Board?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u244	I have discussed this social anchoring several times, particularly during 2014, with the Supervisory Board. We are very aware of that. If I had the impression that this sensitivity was not of the importance that ABN AMRO should be anchored in the public value it should mean for Dutch society, I would have long ceased trusting the Supervisory Board, but that is not the case. But Mr Van Slingelandt also had a responsibility as an employer and as chairman of the Supervisory Board to those directors, in the light of the decision of 2012, when the contracts were amended and those people received a raise. He didn't run away from that. He has defended this by saying that two years have been given up voluntarily, not anymore. He also said that, in the light of the whole debate afterwards, I should not have changed the exact wording and could not have changed it. I very much agree with him. Personally, I regret that he had not reached that conclusion before in the discussions with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u245	It is, of course, very important to realise that this Commissioner did not take back the €100,000 decision. He was still right behind that decision, and he was gonna do it again tomorrow. He regretted the social unrest that had arisen. In the eyes of many, that means that such a Commissioner has a very thick board in his head. After all, he doesn't feel the spirit of time at all and misses what is called the moral compass. The Minister warned him a year ago that this would happen, that it would harm the bank, that it was morally reprehensible and that the bank should not do so. But with that thick board in front of the head, they're just buffed. They simply said that the €100,000 will come and that we are right behind until today. Surely you wouldn't want to go on with such a board of commissioners?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u246	I think it's something else. If Mr Slingerland had to take this decision again, he would have taken another decision. I think he said that implicitly or explicitly. However, it is to his credit that he has also tried to explain why the Supervisory Board initially considered that the salary increase should continue. We cannot agree with that, he himself has properly confirmed that he knew from me that I did not agree with that, but he did simply answer for that initial decision and gave his arguments for it. I think he's right to do that. He gave those arguments in relation to the directors, the agreements made, the contracts and the labour market. Again, I have discussed this repeatedly with him and the other Commissioners: pay attention, work on that social trust. ABN AMRO must be a bank serving Dutch society and the Dutch economy. That is what is needed and it is also the expensive duty of ABN AMRO, if you look at the history and the price paid by Dutch society. There's no misunderstanding between him and me. If I had any doubts about that, I would not be able to go on with this board of Commissioners.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u247	All three Commissioners said that they were still alive in 2006, in the time before the crisis. ABN AMRO's Commissioner defended this in the sense of "they are entitled to do so in the context of good employership"; he always talked about "good employership." If, despite this spirit of time, despite the moral compass, despite the fact that ABN AMRO has been saved by the taxpayer and is five times as small as before the crisis and despite all your warnings that this is harmful and morally reprehensible, it does not realize that it should not take such a decision, you have to deal with foreign Commissioners who do not feel that and who are now sitting with the fried pears. He regretted the tumult; therefore he should not have done so, but as far as he is concerned they are still entitled to that €100,000 in the context of good employership. You can't go on with a club like that, can you? That's not banking now, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u248	I disagree. Once again, I am convinced that if Mr Van Slingelandt and the supervisory board had this as a new decision, they would not do so. The decision came from 2012, when the moral compass of all of us was apparently different. We've all agreed to this. We knew the salary was increased by 16.7%. The minister, the shareholder, agreed and the Chamber knew. Our moral compass or the moral force field, the term "magnetic field" was, I think, used at that time, apparently, different. That circumstance is real. That is what Mr Van Slingelandt referred to when he talked about his role as an employer. Commitments have also been made, commitments have been made and contracts have been adjusted. He's weighed that against that changed circumstance. Unfortunately, they have made these earlier promises very difficult, with all the damage that they have done.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u249	There will be a second deadline, Mr Nijboer, but you insist on asking the question in the first period.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u250	That's right. I understand the Minister's answer to Mr Van Dijck's question on the moral compass, which was different in 2012. After all, he voted against the possibility of allowing the 20% conversion. Mr Van Dijck agreed. Mrs Schouten, the SP with its amendment, the PvdA, the PvdD and D66 had the compass in the correct way. I would therefore like to refute the idea that the Chamber was broadly in favour of this, because a number of parties wanted to make this possibility impossible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u251	That's correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u252	The Minister was still in the Chamber at the time and therefore voted in favour; I am sorry, Mr Dijsselbloem, at that time. There are two more questions I have to ask you. One question is whether, in addition to what happened in Dubai, further issues could be mentioned in a prospectus which could lead to liability of the Dutch State in the event of privatisation. In other words, are there any things that we as a Chamber should know about ABN AMRO at the moment that could significantly affect the value?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u253	Ask yourself the second question, which seems practical to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u254	The second question is whether the Minister can write a letter on the privatisation options in the short term. He said he's doing that at the time of the IPO decision, but can he bring that up? These are the things he can do to protect the public interests he has also mentioned here. For example, private placement, gold shares and such things can be dealt with.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u255	The first question was whether at the moment there are things that the Minister knows and therefore wants to share with the Chamber that would affect the value of the bank in the course of the stock exchange or would carry those risks and should therefore be included in the prospectus. There are no such things at the moment, but I repeat the question exactly. There can of course be cases, but the question was about matters I know and can now share with the Chamber. Having said that, we are, of course, going into a very careful due diligence process and there will be an extensive risk section in the prospectus. It lists all possible risks, claims and so on. I hope that Mr Omtzigt will not be alarmed and say: if all this is still going on, the IPO cannot continue! I can tell the Chamber on a note that every IPO of a large company comes with a very thick prospectus with a very thick risk section. Big companies have risks. Large companies have to deal with claims, court cases and ongoing investigations in supervisors. Unfortunately, that's pretty standard. That does not mean that the IPO could not take place. In the coming months, as long as the stock market has not yet started, large pieces will appear in Het Financieele Dagblad, which says that ABN AMRO has this scandal, doesn't mean that the stock market will have to be shut down or postponed again. I'm not gonna do it like that, because then it's gonna get really messy. Once we have made the decision and when the IPO has started, the process of further strengthening the company will continue. The prospectus will take stock of the state of the art in terms of risks and possible claims and will be reproduced in the risk section. The second question was whether I could send a separate letter with the various options prior to the decision on the IPO. The honest answer is no. I'm not really prepared to do that. I have already sent an extensive letter on the decision in principle to enter the stock market. I have not yet prepared the date of that letter, but we have also had a debate on it. In that letter we also discussed different forms of sale, non-sales and other modalities. That is what we have had the debate on. The majority of the House supported this approach, but also asked additional questions on a number of aspects which Mr Omtzigt also mentioned. As soon as the cabinet sends a second letter on the stock market, which will launch, I will go into these aspects again: the patient investor, the institutional investor, the protection structure and so on. We will then deal in detail with all those points which Mr Omtzig considers important. Then we have another debate with each other. Only when this has been done to the satisfaction of the majority will there actually be a decision to launch the IPO. That's how I wanted to do it. Otherwise, I'm gonna keep sending letters. This is really going to be an extensive letter; "a best letter," Mr Nijboer would say.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-3.u256	Thank you. This ended the first-term response. I suggest we suspend for lunch first. After that we have votes and an order of business. Then we shall continue with this debate.
