ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u1	Mr. Chairman. After last year there were rumours about questionable agreements between the NIS and the Honorary Division in the contract for the Honorary Division Summaries, the VVD Group has repeatedly argued in favour of making such agreements, which, as we know, involve 75 million tax dollars, public and public. The NOS always refused this and yesterday it became clear why. The Media Commissariat forces the NOS to adapt the contract on several counts in a crystal-hard compulsion decision and states that "by inviting FOX Sports presenters and analysts to the Studio Football programme and announcing them as originating from FOX Sports, the NOS actively cooperates in the marketing of the FOX Sports pay-per-view channel. In doing so, the NIS is acting in violation of its responsibility as a public service broadcaster..." That's a big deal. The company Media & Marketing and the commercial payment channel FOX informed the NOS in an email dated 2 January 2014 that "... ways to generate (impulse) purchases for live games are of great value to us." In this way, the NOS, as the Commissariat so strikingly describes, is "stringing for the cart of third parties" and thus throws out journalistic independence. If this is not adjusted before 17 March, the NIS can expect a fine of up to EUR 1 million. As far as I know, that's the highest fine in Dutch television history. The VVD Group is very displeased. I have the following questions for the Secretary of State. What is the verdict on the compulsion of the Commissariat? Did the Secretary of State get spooked, too? What does he think of the statements made by NOS director Jan de Jong, who said this morning on Radio 1 that editorial independence was not affected? Does the Secretary of State share that view? Is this not the same weird situation as when the Pauw programme would contract that Mr Roemer would be a guest every night, but that it would remain independent because they can ask him what they want? Is it true that the Media Commissioner has been able to check only on the so-called "service ban" and not on editorial independence because this is not allowed at the moment? Is the Secretary of State prepared to adapt the regulations in force as soon as we are going to amend the Media Act? Would it not have been an excellent task for the NIS Supervisory Board to look after the journalistic independent point? Wouldn't it have been a task for the NPO who, in the current situation, only afterwards and not beforehand gets an insight into the contracts? The NPO may pay mandatory, but does not know whether journalistic independence is being juggled. I have more questions, but I'll swallow them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u2	You don't have time for that anymore, do you?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u3	Mr. Chairman. I will answer Mr Elias's questions, but I will say that the decision of the Media Commissioner is, of course, still open to appeal and objection. I do not know whether the NIS will make use of this. The first question was whether I was shocked, too. Let me turn it around: at least I am pleased that there is a Media Commissioner who not only points his finger or shows his teeth, but also bites through when that is really necessary and when parties, such as the NOS, break the Media Act. It's a good signal that the Commissariat won't let that happen. Mr Jan de Jong's reaction is entirely up to him. I think it's a bit light-hearted. If a serious fact is noted by the Media Commissioner, saying that the independence of commercial influences is also at stake, some modesty would be appropriate. Then I come to the question of whether the Media Commissioner can also check on editorial independence. For the record, it is not the case that the Commissariat looks at the independence of each programme, but it does check whether it is free from commercial influences and interests. This is not the case, at least in the Commission's opinion, and it is therefore taking action. In view of the forthcoming revision of the Media Act, I will once again have a discussion with the Media Commissioner and ask whether there is a feeling that there is sufficient room for manoeuvre to be able to act decisively if broadcasters break the Media Act or if editorial independence is at stake. The role of the NPO is currently such that agreements are made on the front of the price and that the NIS is given a mandate. I would very much like to see this competence of the NPO increased, namely that it can also be considered whether the resources for sport are being used in the most efficient way possible. This also requires the adaptation of the Media Act. This is in line with the proposal I made to the Chamber earlier this year in the letter on a future-proof media system.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u4	I thank the Secretary of State for the commitments. I have some supplementary questions. It is good that the Media Commissioner is here and that it is taking place, says the Secretary of State. Yeah, at your service, but it didn't happen until it was written in the press. It cannot be true that the control mechanism only works when it is discussed in the press. I would also like all contracts to be made public, now that the discussion is really taking place openly. That is the next question to the Secretary of State. There is also a deal with the Star that has been deployed and that would also be at odds with the Media Act. Is it true that the Media Commissioner is watching this too? When are we gonna hear about that? Then, of course, there is the old point that the agreements that the NOS has now made with FOX could be made by a commercial broadcaster. Moreover, there could undoubtedly be disadvantages in this respect too. This is all the more so because agreements have been made here with public money that could also be made by a commercial channel. My final question concerns the following. There was more overbiding by public service broadcasting, including in other programmes. Is this being investigated, too? We are always opposed to unfair competition, but certainly when it comes to taxpayers' money.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u5	Oh, that was a real sad thing to do. I'll start with the first question. A lot has indeed been said in the media about this contract on the rights of the Honorary Division, but it cannot be ruled out that the Media Commissioner would have investigated it if it had not. It is independent in this and often conducts investigations into such contracts. In addition, the Media Commission itself indicated that the investigation has not yet been completed. It makes a comment on the agreements on Star Income, which it itself states should be examined further. It cannot therefore be ruled out that the Media Commissioner is going to find something about it in the future and, if there were also a violation of the Media Act, will act as a enforcer. As far as disclosure is concerned, I have indicated earlier that I am extremely unhappy with the whole secrecy surrounding agreements on sports rights and that I would like to see this become more open in the future. In this particular case, I find it complicated. It is up to the NIS to do so. The NOS has also made agreements with third parties, including the corresponding penalty clauses. So I can't force that at the moment. Finally, when it comes to a level playing field, I fully agree with Mr Elias that you should not overbid with tax resources. The only way to test this is by the way not so much a question that lies with the Media Commissioner but rather with the ACM if a complaint is lodged with the ACM by a market participant, so that it can look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u6	I believe that the Secretary of State should do more than his last answer to Mr Elias when it comes to enforcing public access. Among other things, because there is increasing pressure on the commercial assignment for public service broadcasting, in particular the NIS, you can see that the pressure is increasing to conclude those contracts, to bring in that big programme and to keep the ratings up. This will mean that these kinds of deals are increasingly being made. I think that the Secretary of State, because he is responsible for that policy, should really make more work of getting all the things that are going on out there public. Otherwise, the House of Representatives will no longer be able to exercise proper control over the independence of public service broadcasting. That's what this debate is all about. So I'd like to hear a little more sharpness from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u7	I think that I can reassure Mr Verhoeven fully about future contracts. I have said that I do not want this anymore, but what has already happened has happened, and the agreements made by the NIS with third parties cannot be unilaterally terminated. Those are the things that have been done, no matter how annoying I am. As far as the future is concerned, I have clearly told both the NIS and the NPO what I think. Contracts paid with taxpayers' money must be completely open. There should be nothing secretive about that and, as far as I am concerned, we should be able to discuss it in public if there is a need for it in this Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u8	Thank you for your answers and thanks for coming to the Chamber. You may stay for a while, because the following questions will also be asked to you.
