ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-8.u1	I welcome the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment and the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations and give Mr Heerma the floor on behalf of the CDA as the first speaker. Speaking time is two minutes, including tabling motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-8.u2	Mr. Chairman. We have had a good debate with each other in a number of stages on the question of the resilience of our democracy. Before I make a motion, I would like to express my appreciation for the way in which the cabinet and these ministers have shown themselves to take the importance of this issue seriously. This was perhaps the most explicit statement made by the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment in the second term last week, when he explained the difference between this cabinet and the original discussion with Minister Donner in 2006. On the basis of the debate in the debate, the "judge chamber" on the motion and the presentation by the cabinet in the debates, I am very confident that the Chamber will be able to support the motion. I am very curious to see what the cabinet will do to implement the motion. I would therefore like to retable the original motion, which was tabled during the budget debate last autumn. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, in a resilient democracy, there is no room for groups that abuse the democratic rule of law in order to overthrow and abolish it;]] [[Whereas this includes, inter alia, cases where groups would advocate Sharia;]] [[Whereas the European Court of Human Rights also states that Sharia is inherently contrary to the ECHR;]] [[calls on the Government to make proposals to ban groups whose objectives inevitably lead to the abandonment of our democratic rule of law,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Pieter Heerma, Mr Dijkgraaf and Mr Potters. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29279-258]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-8.u3	In the AA, we debated extensively and also heard how the government intends to implement this motion, if it is adopted. Mr. Heerma is about to file the motion. Can I make it clear that he also intends to carry out the motion as indicated by the cabinet, namely by making an international comparison and going further into the question of when there is a sufficient danger, the clear and present danger, and that on that basis it will be assessed whether further action is necessary? That is briefly how the cabinet has promised that this motion will be implemented. Is that what Mr. Heerma is trying to do? He's not filing a reinforced motion, he's filing the motion he filed last time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-8.u4	I shall retable the motion because I did not have the sharpest moment of my career in the last May session and the motion was suspended. That is why there is a need to retable the motion. The motion that was filed received "judgement chamber" from the cabinet. We have used the debates to discuss this with the cabinet and to hear how the cabinet will carry out the motion. The intention of the proposers is clearly stated in the motion. Mr Van Dam asks me to give the cabinet the room to say what it intends to do if the motion is adopted. The basic position of the cabinet was: it is not necessary. I want to give the cabinet that space. In doing so, the proposers assume that this will lead to proposals. Once there are or are not, we will have the debate again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-8.u5	Finally, Mr Van Dam.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-8.u6	I would like to make it a little clearer, because that is important for the consideration that my group has to make. The implementation of this motion, such as the cabinet, which has already promised to do more or less when it is adopted, can count on our approval. Is that why Mr Heerma is now tabling the motion? Does he also intend that the cabinet should give effect to the motion as indicated in the AA?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-8.u7	The motion was filed. The only reason for re-submission was that the deadline had expired. The cabinet has given that "judgement chamber" motion and has indicated how it will implement it. I didn't make a plea here that that's outrageous. I congratulated the Cabinet on the fact that it seems to have taken this discussion more seriously than a previous cabinet did when the CDA started this discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-8.u8	It is true that the cabinet uses a broader and more resilient concept of democracy than Minister Donner did at the time. However, this motion calls for action. The cabinet has said that it will not take action and will not take action, but will make a good international comparison. That seems to me to be valuable, but they are not measures. Mr Heerma is asking for action. Can he just answer Mr Van Dam's question? He's got a lot going for him.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-8.u9	The intention of the authors of the motion was clear in the budget and has not changed. In reply to Mr Van Weyenberg's question, I can only say that I agree more with Mr Van Dam's summary of the debate than with Mr Van Weyenberg's suggestive summary. If he thinks the cabinet is only going to do what he says with the motion, maybe he should just support it. I wonder whether Mr Van Weyenberg will regret that in the long term, given his own approach to the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-8.u10	Finally, Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-8.u11	The reason not to support the motion is not that it is said: Cabinet, do an investigation. I'm fine with that, and that's what the Cabinet is going to do. I see no objection to that. However, the motion calls for action. I simply repeat the question put by Mr Van Dam: is it indeed the only thing Mr Heerma is trying to do with his motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-8.u12	Perhaps Mr Van Weyenberg should read the transcript of the debate again. The cabinet has given a lot more space. That is why it gave the House its opinion on the motion. That has been explained in the debate. Mr Van Weyenberg may interpret it as he pleases. The debate on the resilience of our democracy and the question of whether the rules we have allowed sufficient scope to ban parties seeking to abolish democracy has been going on for years. The authors of the motion have an opinion on this. That is not Mr Van Weyenberg's opinion. If the motion is passed, which I have great confidence in, I expect the cabinet to investigate. I also assume that we will see proposals here to make democracy more resilient.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-8.u13	Perhaps it is a bit of an improper method, but I would like to respond to Mr Van Weyenberg in this way. It is clear that the government is being asked to make proposals to ban groups. A legal comparison is therefore being made, and the cabinet is looking at whether further proposals are needed and what the proposals are, in order to avoid the abolition of democracy in a non-democratic way. I think that's the interpretation that's meant to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-8.u14	My party also believes that measures should be taken if a party in objective and action is to overthrow democracy. According to the Cabinet, that's possible. Mr Potters must therefore stick to the facts and not distort my group's position.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-8.u15	Mr. Chairman. We have had a fascinating debate in two rounds in general consultation. The debate focused on two topics. The first has just been put forward by Mr Heerma. I would like the debate to be taken a step further, without immediately sharing the conclusion contained in the operative part of the motion. I understand that Mr Heerma is tabling the same motion. You have to, because she had expired. However, he could also have chosen to table a motion which goes beyond the previous one. He won't. He's filing the same motion. That is where we are at the point where we have debated in detail, namely that the cabinet could carry out further investigations. What is the international view of this? Is sufficiently sharp when there is imminent danger? Is the current instruments sufficient or is there a reason for further tightening up the instruments? With this explanation, if that is the step the cabinet is about to take, I welcome the way in which this debate can continue. The second part of the debate was about the fact that a resilient democracy also requires a resilient society. A resilient society is based on shared values. I believe that we should make it much more explicit and promote it and transfer it, in order to strengthen interconnectivity in society. For that, I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas a resilient democracy needs a resilient society in which views that go against the democratic and moral foundations of our country find little resonance and are actively rebutted;]] [[Whereas a resilient society is supported by interconnectedness based on shared values;]] [[Whereas the strengthening of interconnectivity and the transfer of our shared values can be supported by the government;]] [[calls on the Government to develop ways in which policies can incorporate or strengthen the transfer and transfer of these shared values in different policy areas and the strengthening of interconnectivity in society,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Dam. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29279-259]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-8.u16	Mr Van Dam has rightly used an important part of his term in the AA to emphasise the importance of a resilient society. The operative part of this motion is quite broad and general. What is Mr Van Dam thinking? In what areas would he like to see proposals from the cabinet to strengthen this resilience of society?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-8.u17	As has also been pointed out in the AO, these are not measures sec. Minister Asscher made it very clear that it is already important for members of the cabinet to speak about it. But I would like to see this in more than one policy area than just that of integration. In cultural policy, greater attention should be paid to the interconnectivity in our society and the values that we share and which have shaped this society. The CDA's scientific institute has just presented a beautiful report that addresses this issue, which also highlighted media policy and the important connecting role that media play in our society. More attention should be paid to this in media policy. I share that view. I'd like to see that a little more. I can imagine that the Minister of State for Citizenship and Fundamental Rights is taking initiatives to talk more about this in society. Those are a few examples, but I'm sure there are others. I like to give the Cabinet the free hand to be creative.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-8.u18	Mr. Chairman. Mr Öztürk is on the train, I am here to replace him. We regret that the VAO had been removed from the agenda on issues of integration. But since it is about the resilience of our democracy, I shall begin with the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Labyrinth study showed serious shortcomings in the Motivation study and that the Motivation study did not give a representative picture of the views of Turkish-Dutch youth;]] [[Whereas the Director of Motivation has advised the Minister not to publish the Motivation Study, as more explanation was needed;]] [[having regard to the fact that the Minister has published the study;]] [[Whereas the Minister spoke in general in interviews and contributions to debates on Turkish-Dutch youth, while the Motivation study was not representative;]] [[Whereas, as a result, the Minister has further deteriorated the image of Turkish-Dutch young people and has thereby further reduced their already low labour market opportunities;]] [[instructs the Minister to apologize to the Turkish-Dutch youth,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the discussion on tackling anti-democratic groups further enhances Islamophobia and Muslim hatred in our society;]] [[noting that there may already be two anti-democratic groups in the Dutch Parliament with the PVV and the SGP;]] [[calls on the government, an independent agency, to examine carefully and in principle to what extent the party positions and statements of the PVV and of the SGP are contrary to our rule of law and/or Constitution,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29279-260]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29279-261]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-8.u19	The VAO integration has not been removed from the agenda but is rescheduled after the summer recess. There was a majority for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-8.u20	Since Mr Kuzu has just tabled a motion for a general discussion which has not yet been concluded, I would ask him to withdraw it and submit it after we have had the debate on it. If we are going to table motions in this Chamber about debates that are going to come, it will at least be a mess.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-8.u21	There's a little time pressure on it. 90% of Turkish-Dutch young people are currently saying that they are asking the Minister for an apology. By the way, there is a parallel with this AO. We are talking about anti-democratic groups, we are talking about the resilience of our democracy. This discussion was fueled because it would put pressure on the resilience of our democracy. So I'm sure I can see interfaces.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-8.u22	Mr. Chairman. The debate rightly focused on the search for the right balance between great democratic freedoms, in which parties must also be able to take positions that are uncomfortable and abrasive, and the responsibility we have with each other to protect democracy itself, even if it can be compromised through democracy itself. During the budget debate in November, we discussed it here the first time, and then a number of times very intensively. I think the cabinet agrees with the authors that there is every reason to look at this issue again now, to look at it in depth. The threats to democracy are different than before, the phenomena are different than before, the organisations are different than before, but the instruments are the same as before. In our response, we have already shown that there is indeed a toolbox to defend democracy, but that there is every reason, for example, to review the criterion of the imminent danger, in view of these changes in the world, and that we will come up with proposals when we see opportunities to improve it. In other words, the pre-opinion on the motion on item No. 258 remains: Judgement Chamber. I was very pleased with the debate between Mr Van Dam and Mr Heerma, which consolidated the general consultation in the reading of the motion before us. Mr Van Dam's motion for a resolution 259 is about the intrinsic resilience of our democracy, so it is not by legal means but by protecting the resilience from within. Of course, there's a lot that's going to make that happen. First of all, this is our popularity and the fact that democracy is being supported. Secondly, that's what children learn in education and what they get with it. But this also applies to the fact that it is not a bad thing to go into this complex period to see how, in various areas, we could improve the more explicit transfer of these values. By always letting it go implicitly, you sometimes take away the opportunity to be part of those values, to internalize and convey them yourself. I would therefore like to leave that motion to the House. The motion in part No. Mr Kuzu's 260 instructs the Minister to make an apology. I'm not sure that's something you're pre-advising. If I had to, I wouldn't recommend it. The motion in part No. 261 will deal with my colleague Plasterk.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-8.u23	Before the Minister gives his opinion on the motion in part No. 261, I would like to check again whether there is sufficient support for tabling this motion. I was reminded that there were no four MPs who supported her. I therefore ask again whether the motion in part No. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). I see that's the case. Then the motion is part of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-8.u24	I'm making a point of order. I sometimes find all kinds of motions, but I think Members always have the right to table motions. That is why my group supports the submission. This is not a statement of support in substance. I would like to emphasise this to the people who do not follow the procedures, like us, every day.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-8.u25	Of course. I think that is true of many of my colleagues. However, according to the Rules of Procedure, four Members of Parliament must support the motion in order to allow it to be part of the debate. Mr Segers has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-8.u26	I have a question concerning Mr Van Dam's motion. I would like to know a little more precisely when things will be worked out and when we will see proposals. Is that about budgetary treatment? Is that, among other things, in the treatment of the new Media Act? This has so many similarities with so many policy areas that it would be nice to have some insight into how this is going to land.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-8.u27	If the motion were to be adopted, we would have to understand it in the cabinet. The motion does indeed affect many policy areas, so we need to look at who is going to coordinate it and how. I think it's good to let the Chamber know after the summer how we intend to proceed with the motion. That is not the end of that, but a route planner: how do we deal with it and what does it mean in concrete terms? I'd like to do some serious work on that if that motion made it. Mr President, I would like to ask you to give my colleague Mr Plasterk the floor on the motion for a resolution on item No. 261.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-8.u28	I now turn to the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-8.u29	Mr. Chairman. I should also like to refer to the debate that we have had before. 261. It would be an extremely undesirable path if we asked an agency to start assessing the content of their views by the electorate's elected political parties. As we have discussed in detail, it is up to the judge to decide whether political organisations should be banned. In so far as this is not the case, the Dutch law, unlike, for example, the German law, has no "Parteiengesetz" to assess the substantive views of political parties. I would therefore advise against the motion. Finally, and perhaps aboundingly, I note that it is not unusual for political parties to have views contrary to the Constitution. For example, I know political parties who believe that the crowning title of the mayor should be removed from the Constitution. That view is contrary to the Constitution. That in itself does not raise any objections in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-8.u30	Thank you. This brings us to the end of this VAO. We shall be voting on the motions tabled tonight.
