ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u1	In the first term on the part of the government, the State Secretary of OCW will begin his response to the Chamber's contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u2	Mr. Chairman. I think it was Mr Duisenberg who referred to the fact that the Netherlands is back in the top 5 of the most competitive economies. The report on this subject states that one of the pillars of this success is that we have such good education in the Netherlands. So when we talk about the raw materials that make our country so strong and good, it is mainly about knowledge, skill, talent, courage and perseverance. That is why it is so important to have high quality education. Every child has the right to good and, above all, challenging and contemporary education, education that suits him and offers opportunities. I see fantastic examples of this. Mr Slob is not here today, but he said at the beginning of his speech that he appreciates and respects the people who work every day for good education in the Netherlands. I also see, over and over again during my work visits, that wonderful things are happening: schools that are renewing themselves, schools that are working on new educational concepts and schools that are working on the craft of good education. In other words, congratulations. At the same time, challenging education is not just a matter of some good examples. Challenging education requires a culture of continuously improving all schools for all pupils in the Netherlands. Although schools are free to think about the question and determine how they do it, I, like many of the Members, am enthusiastic about, for example, a learning methodology such as learning power. In this context, schools in teams of teachers start talking about how they can make education a little better every day. Perhaps it is nice to say in this context that the first national school leaders' summit will take place in Rotterdam in a week's time. More than 500 school leaders have applied in the meantime. They come together to think about what breakthroughs are needed to bring our education a little further. One of the things on the agenda is that, under the leadership of Jaap Versfelt, we are still a little bit the inventor of learning power with his method and those more than 500 school leaders are just going to experience it. In my opinion, a better promotion of something like learning strength is impossible to imagine. To achieve a change, more is needed than just beautiful words. It's not gonna happen by itself. This requires a culture of shared conviction and commitment from everyone involved in education: teachers, school leaders, administrators and, of course, the two of us; we wake up to this every day. I have listened carefully to the contributions of the Members of Parliament. I will end a number of themes with the Chamber. I will start with the issue that may be most appropriate to the budget: everything that has to do with funding and transparency and the discussion about the money for young teachers. The second block concerns flexibility in the system. The third block deals with appropriate education and the questions that have been asked about it. The fourth theme is everything related to the curriculum and the course 2032, which is the content of our education. Fifth, questions have been asked about the refugee problem and the reception of refugee children in education. Finally, I would like to say a few words about the integrated child centres, in which Mrs Ypma, in particular, stood still. Questions have been asked about funding by Mr Van Dijk, Mr Slob and Mr Duisenberg, specifically because there is 125 million for the maintenance of teachers' jobs. Mr Duisenberg drew it into his contribution a little wider, namely to the advantages and disadvantages of the system of lump sum payment. I think this is justified. Schools and administrations have a great deal of freedom to shape their education and to determine how they use the resources to do so. This autonomy also translates into the financing of institutions through the lump sum, as it was called. At the time, they deliberately opted for a lumpsumsystematiek. This is in line with the tradition we have in the Netherlands with Article 23 of the Constitution and with the great autonomy of institutions. At the same time, we have a model of system management, in which we give schools room to determine the deployment, but at the back we look at whether the quality of education is being improved. The introduction of the lumpsum put an end to bureaucracy and increased the autonomy of the institutions and the possibilities for local tailor-made work. Inherent to that system, it is not possible for each euro to indicate to each institution how it has specifically contributed to the overall result. That does not mean that the lumpsum is a free pass for institutions to spend educational money on other purposes. The government monitors both the quality of education and the legality of expenditure through standardisation and independent supervision. Schools are required to produce annual accounts and annual reports, in which the auditor supervises the legality of expenditure. At the same time, I understand the wish of the Chamber to keep the finger on the wrist very well. The cabinet has deliberately opted for large investments in education, while many other sectors had to do with less money. With the help of a number of opposition parties, we have increased that amount considerably in the autumn agreement. Then it is important to continue to monitor what happens to that money and whether this leads to the improvement in quality that we are aiming for. The possibilities for this vary from sector to sector. The Minister is dealing with a limited number of higher education institutions. Then you can quickly make arrangements at institution level about exactly what you expect from the use of additional resources. In primary and secondary education we are dealing with a very large number of institutions and it is therefore impossible to make agreements at institutional level. That is why we make agreements at sector level. We have laid these down in the sectoral agreements and there is a performance box attached to them. This performance box sets out the objectives that we want to achieve with education after 2017 and for a number of parts after 2020. The various agreements on the use of additional resources agreed on the results. This is linked to indicators, so that we can keep track of progress. We report to the Chamber periodically on this. It will soon receive the report on progress in the sector agreements. Then we can jointly look at whether we are on course, where things are going well and where extra effort is needed. These reports are produced in cooperation with the field of education. There is therefore also an increasing awareness of the results of education and its developments. We can follow that in a number of ways. I think it is very important to have an insight into outcome indicators during the budgetary debate in the Chamber, in order to make the effectiveness and quality of education at system level clear. We often talk about this, for example following Trends in Image, Education in Figures or the Education Monitor. The Chamber received a letter from the Minister and me last week. It said how we can work with a dashboard. I can say comforting words to Mr Bishop in this respect: this does not create additional burdens for the field. It's something we're all mapping out to make sure we have a good picture of developments. I also think it is important that at school level it is clear how the school is doing, how it is doing and what choices it is making in the use of resources. Last week I sent a letter to the Chamber about the importance of greater transparency in education. A number of members have raised the issue of public access to annual reports and annual accounts. I think that is very good, because it can be used if the participation council, parents, pupils or teachers want to know whether the money for education is being spent properly, what happens with the use of resources behind schedule, what considerations are being made, whether it should be used as a way of speaking to move more hours or whether it should be used on other things. Schools have the room to make these choices, but they must be clear about this to the staff, the parents and the pupils. Before I go into more detail on the questions about the 150 million, I think it would be good to take a look at what funding systems are in place. In my opinion, it was a question from Mr Duisenberg. How, for example, can you keep your finger on the wrist within a lump sum, but perhaps also in other forms of funding? How can you track what schools do with extra money or find out if this ultimately contributes to the quality of education? We are going to have an irrevocable debate on this because we are simplifying funding for, at least, secondary education. I think it would be good for the breadth of the debate to include these issues. I now turn specifically to Mr Van Dijk's question as to how we are going to carry out the motion of his hand and of Mrs Ypma's hand, which has just been adopted. We can carry out that motion. Of course, there are a lot of institutions in the Netherlands, about 10,000. We have a lot of data. The implementation organisation DUO collects and publishes these annually. These relate to data on numbers of FTEs, on persons per job and by age category, for school and administration. I'm gonna make sure the Chamber gets this information. Yesterday I learned from Mr Duisenberg that this can be done very quickly. The link to that data can be forwarded via WhatsApp. If it's okay, he'll have this on his phone within a minute and a half. Of course, I will send another letter to the Chamber for the Acts of Procedure, containing the information mentioned. The motion calls for an overview of the whole year 2014. This requires data on both the school year 2013-2014 and the school year 2014-2015. We now have the data on the first part ready. They're available. The data on the second part will come in spring 2016. Then we can make the total picture. At the same time, however, this calls for a relativisation. We can, of course, take stock of these figures together, and we can present them to the Chamber, but the question is whether this will ultimately provide a precise insight into the use made of the 150 million. I also think that a hugely broken picture does not exactly do that yet. I asked the PO Council and the VO Council about the use of the 150 million. They themselves indicate that, in their view, this money has been properly spent on the objectives for which it was intended; it has been very badly placed in the preservation of employment. I don't think you're gonna get that out of the numbers I'm gonna send to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u3	Let me say that the glass in this discussion, which we have been having for years, is half full. It is half-full because yesterday many parties in the first term of the Chamber said: we need to understand more about where the education money is. Mr Duisenberg has asked constructive questions about this. The written reply states that the Secretary of State is prepared to examine other ways to obtain more information on the use of the additional funds. Well, let's go, let's go. The SP would like us to cut up that lump sum. The money for the teachers has to go to the teachers. Let that be clear. Can the Secretary of State explain exactly what he's going to do to get more clarity about the education money?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u4	In my opinion, yesterday's debate was whether you could finance in other ways, which would allow us to better monitor how specific budget linked to specific targets is being used, and whether this ultimately leads to certain results. In the current system, I think that lumpsum for the total use of a school's resources combined with inspection supervision, auditing and sectoral agreements is workable in itself. The system has been agreed on where we want to see improvements. This involves a whole range of topics, such as more masters, better skills of students and more challenging education. We're gonna measure that every year, and we're gonna report to the Chamber on that every year, and we're gonna be accountable. Mr Van Dijk says that he wants to have a better view of this. There are, of course, other forms of financing. They may have the advantage that you can follow much better what each euro has been spent on, for example when you set up a specific scheme. This also has disadvantages, however, because it makes it less flexible and more accountable. I feel that we should have that discussion in this Chamber only once. Now we all say at the front: we attach very much to the lumpsum, because we want to do it as freely as possible. But at the back there are a lot of questions about exactly how the money was spent. However, it is of two and one. Or you opt for a very rule-free funding system. Then you have to accept at the back that you can no longer issue a receipt for every euro. Unless, of course, you're all in the front, and you decide that you want to make a different arrangement. I think it would be good to have that discussion here openly and honestly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u5	I totally agree with the Secretary of State. The choice of lump sum funding, whereby school boards get one budget, inevitably means that we do not know exactly where the money is. Now many parties are struggling with the question of where that money went. We're looking at solutions. A radical solution is to stop the lumpsum, but there may be more roads to Rome. I see some willingness on the part of the Secretary of State to consider that. He has also just said that he is going to carry out my motion, so he will come up with the final figures in the spring of 2016. Very well, then we'll start the debate. For the moment, the question remains as to what exactly we can arrange today to see in general what ways there are to clarify the use of educational money. I think the Chamber can come up with some good proposals for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u6	I do not know exactly what Mr Van Dijk would like to decide. At the time, we made the choice to run the 150 million through lumpsum. I don't think you can reverse that immediately. I would also like to nuance the picture that we have absolutely no idea of what that money has been spent on, because we really do have a system of monitoring for schools at institution level with annual accounts and annual reports. This way they can't just spend it on things that have nothing to do with education. However, you want to follow exactly what every euro has gone into in respect of certain investments. That will require a different funding system. I think it is right that I should undertake to send you a letter indicating how you could follow this in a different way in the future and what are the advantages and disadvantages of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u7	I sometimes feel that the debate on the financing structure and the discussion on the accountability structure is miraculously mixed. Does the Secretary of State agree with me that in a financing structure based on lumpsum, you can actually build in a accountability structure that basically gives insight into what happened to the money? This should certainly apply to sums above ground level. If you spend 150 million for 3,000 teachers, you should at least be able to find out in the course of the figures what the autonomous development would have been and what the development has been with the addition of this part of the budget? I don't think that's related to lump sum funding. Does the Secretary of State agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u8	We collect a lot of figures and we can also give those trends. In fact, I asked the PO Council and the VO Council to do a poll among their members on how that money was spent. I have received a letter from both institutions, in which they give an indication of how that money was used afterwards. With all the blows to the arm, I think they have succeeded reasonably and I am not so afraid of the numbers. The poll of the PO-Council indicates that it has resulted in 2,600 additional FTEs and the VO-Council talks about a number of 1,700 additional FTEs. It is by the way the ex post construction of something, where the link between what you put in it at the front and what you justify is looser than when you assume a specific benefit in which that one-on-one goes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u9	I would almost say: I would like to encourage the Secretary of State, in his mind, to look above all for complicated funding structures that give rise to false accuracy, because that is the next debate we will have. However, I would encourage him to consider how aggregated figures can systematically come to the Chamber that gives us the insight we want. I think we can do both. When I look at what the Secretary of State had just sent through the app, I see overall figures in FTEs, so I can't figure out exactly what the development has been on the main lines.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u10	That's a pretty complicated one, too. It is specifically about the maintenance of employment. 150 million went to schools through the lumpsum. That's not one FTE per school, which you can say you can charge extra. For a small school, this may have been a very small part appointment, which has enabled such a school to hold someone else's back for another year. You don't get that one-two-three out of those numbers, unless you make it a specific arrangement. I do agree with Mr Grashoff that you can finance lumpsum at the front and that at the back you can ask a more detailed question of accountability to schools. It's possible. That is also one of the options I would like to take with me in that letter. That too has advantages and disadvantages. This requires a high burden of accountability, including towards schools. Well, then we'll just have to talk about whether we want to.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u11	I have a short, practical question. You have just promised a letter to Mr Van Dijk. Can you tell me when you're going to send that letter to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u12	I'm guessing between now and three months.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u13	Thank you. Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u14	Mr Rog asked about the costs of unemployment benefits, as the PO Council in particular had indicated that unemployment benefits had increased considerably, which seemed to have triggered the discussion that this money would have been used for this purpose. I don't know if that's a valid suggestion, because it's not a choice whether or not you pay WW benefits. You're gonna have to do that anyway. I know one thing for sure: if that 150 million had not gone to education in 2014, then the WW payments in that sector would have been even higher and the number of jobs would probably have been significantly lower. Of course, it is good to look at the costs of unemployment, what they mean now and to what extent they also affect the total amount of education money. The first projections of the Participation Fund estimated expenditure on unemployment benefits to reach 265 million. That's what I read back in those pieces. In the meantime, there is also a better understanding of the implementation of unemployment developments and the costs involved. This amounts to a much lower amount, EUR 215 million. That's good. This also means that unemployment is less high than we expected. But within that total there is the part of the statutory WW and a part that comes on top of that because there are agreements made about it in the collective agreement. The Participation Fund estimates that this will amount to a small EUR 70 million in excess of the statutory WW benefit for primary education. If you convert that into jobs, based on salaries, with employers' costs of just over €60,000, you're talking about some 1,150 FTEs that you could finance from there. Of course, we do not agree to collective agreements as a government. The social partners can agree on this in a collective agreement and, where appropriate, also on the phasing out or abolition of these super-statutory WW benefits. In principle, that seems to me to be a very good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u15	I have correctly understood the Secretary of State: 70 million in the super-legal section, so what is extra spent on top of what is legally required per year, and that for the sector po. Can the Secretary of State also give an indication of what amount we are talking about for the other sectors?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u16	Let me give you a rough indication. The figure is approximately 27 million and about 10 million in the MBO. For higher education, this is a bit more difficult to map.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u17	Following this debate, the PO Council sent us a brief overview, on the one hand, of the additional resources that have gone to primary education over the past period and on the other hand, of the rising costs, including these. Is the Secretary of State prepared to respond in writing to that image? That doesn't have to be here, because then we're going to do some sort of math test here. Can he give a comprehensive written response to all these developments, so that we can really talk here armed with facts about real expectations that we may have of this extra money? Because if that picture is true, we agree that we should not expect these 1,500 teachers to be there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u18	I will, of course, do so, because I also welcome the fact that this is being put into perspective. I have just said that the picture of the WW payments seems to me to be different from what was presented by the PO Council. So I think it would be a good idea for us to put our image against that too. I shall continue with flexibility in the system, because that is also an issue which I believe has been raised by all the groups. More space and flexibility is also very high on the agenda. In the schools I visit, this is often something that is cited when I talk to teachers, school leaders and administrators. Here in the Chamber, too, it is regularly discussed. I think this is important for two reasons. On the one hand, flexibility is important to renew, improve and reform schools and, as education professionals, to be able to take responsibility for setting up education in a contemporary and challenging way. That is one of the reasons why, for example, we have adjusted and relaxed the hours standard and why we are coming very soon with the Regular School Scheme for schools that have earned our trust. In that sense, they get a kind of carte blanche to show free of a lot of rules what they can do about innovation in education. I'm excited about that. On the other hand, flexibility is important to enable students to organise the most challenging education career for them. This includes taking exams in subjects at a higher level. Exams can be done earlier, for example in the penultimate year or in the previous year. We have also recently made it possible to speed up the process of VWO. They are all ways of achieving greater flexibility within the system. I am very much in favour of the possibility of taking courses at a higher level and I am very excited when I see that schools are working on this very concretely. It can be done for a little over seven years, but I still see very few schools using it. In 2015, the total number is about 2,000 pupils. I would prefer to see many more students taking advantage of this opportunity. That requires adjustments from schools, but they have that space. I'd say take that space, too. Here again there are nice examples, for example the Picasso Lyceum in Zoetermeer. This school really profiles itself: "If you come to us, you can get your diploma, but if you're good at exact subjects, you can do it at vwo level." That only shows that it is possible to offer challenging education. Schools can already explicitly mention on the list of grades and diplomas that one or more subjects have been completed at a higher level. These additional efforts by these students are thus visible. In response to the call for a tailor-made diploma from the VO Council, I say that goes a step further. Then you're not just talking about the question of what makes you understandable on the rating list or the diploma, but also about the civil impact of taking exams at a higher level. That's being mapped out now. I'm talking to the minister about it. Of course, it also has all kinds of effects on further education. The Education Council is also working on an opinion in this area. I think it is possible to write a letter to the Chamber before the end of this year on further flexibilisation in education. I will take this subject with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u19	Did you finish the block with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u20	No, but I see Mrs. Siderius at the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u21	We are trying to put it together a little bit and do the questions at the end of the block. If you indicate clearly when a block has ended, we can then ask the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u22	I have given a number of examples of the flexibility needed to make education more challenging for children who can handle more. The room for more flexible equipment also touches on the concerns expressed about early selection. What does that mean for children's chances, i.e. Mr Van Meenen's shufflebox or Mr Grashoff's straitjacket? The Minister has already said a lot about this. We are an early-selection country, and at the same time we manage to build up and stack up to give young people good opportunities. Not for nothing did the OECD mention the Netherlands as one of the good practices in 2012. Those strengths of the Dutch system must be well guarded. Mr Van Meenen said: the system is no longer possible, the system is on the verge of collapse, the system is bankrupt. I'm fundamentally different about that myself. In my opinion, no one in the Netherlands is waiting for a very large system discussion, for another major system change, for a renewed discussion about middle school. It is about how we can provide sufficient flexibility within the current system to accommodate up- and down-flow, stack up and so on. I understand the concerns expressed by Mr Grashoff about the mixed middle class. The Education Inspectorate noted in its Education Report a slight decrease in those mixed broad bridge classes and a decrease in multiple final recommendations in primary education. Primary schools, even with the new law in their hand, always have the right to issue multiple school advice. Inside, they can make agreements with each other with secondary schools on how they advise. Mrs Ypma or Mrs Jadnansing I don't know exactly who it was anymore, but it was one of the two people who pointed out that in a particular region the agreement was made to deliver only single opinions. This can be done within current legislation and regulations, but the question is whether it is desirable. Honestly, I don't think that's desirable. I find it undesirable for double opinions to be categorically excluded. For me, that is also one of the reasons why I would like to engage not only with the region concerned but also with the VO Council on how to do this in a good way, and in a way that is in the best interests of children. Questions have also been asked about the return. The Chamber has asked a number of times about the construction of the underbuilding efficiency. Does that give positive or negative incentives? I have very recently sent a letter to the Chamber stating that we are going to change some of the calculation of the underlying return. A high school that realizes a lot of upswing scores positively in the underbuilding return. If a double-advised student fails to reach the level, the negative score is absent. In this way, we want to reward the good performance and talent development of children in schools. If that doesn't work, then there's not a-two-three a big minus behind it. In other words, vo-schools are not taken care of if they place students with double advice at the highest level and if they do not achieve that in the end. It does challenge the schools to get the most out of children's talents. I come to the point to which Mr Grashoff asked: the broad classes of bridges. Also subscribes to the importance of this. If you look at the developments, we can see that the number of broad bridge classes decreased slightly between 2008 and 2013: from 67% to 59%. Mr Grashoff assumed that perverse incentives had a negative effect on that trend or that they had at least brought that trend to fruition. We have had research conducted into the effects of inspection monitoring and calculations on the behaviour of schools. This shows that the magnitude of the undesirable effects is very small. However, I can understand Mr Grashoff's concern. It is too early for an action plan to include broad bridge classes, but I would like to keep my finger on the pulse and keep a close eye on developments. In response to the Education Report, the Minister and I have also underlined the importance of broad bridge classes. Maybe it's good to have a conversation, with the VO Council and perhaps with some schools, to talk about their reflections on how to convert broad bridge classes into more category classes. Then we get a better view of the motivations of schools.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u23	I have a question about the so-called "suitable degree." I understand you can only do high-level courses. That sounds fantastic. What strikes me, however, is that the Secretary of State says that it is up to the schools to facilitate this. Shouldn't it be the case that if a havoleer says he wants to do a number of courses at vwo level, the school should organize that for that student?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u24	I think that's a very interesting thought. Can I chew on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u25	I think it would be better if you just agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u26	I understand that, but I'd rather not go back on commitments. The VO Council has made a big plea for the customized diploma. Then I immediately bounce the ball back by saying: if you think that flexibility in secondary education is so incredibly important, why is there not enough use of the space that already exists? I am enthusiastic about the existing possibilities, but I also see that the number of students using them is still very small. I hope that we can come up with smart ways to open up the offer to many more students, and this could indeed be one. I am very much in favour of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u27	I understand the Secretary of State is already working on a letter on this subject. I hope he will then raise this point specifically in that letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u28	That's what I'm telling you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u29	Mr President, I actually have two interruptions on two different aspects, namely the broad secondary school, the advice and the customized diploma. Is that okay?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u30	You're very competent and I'm sure you can take those two things in one question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u31	Then it's gonna be a longer interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u32	Go ahead. Of course, you can ask them both.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u33	Mrs Siderius spoke about the tailor-made diploma, and I would like to add the question as to whether the poor use of this diploma can be due to the fact that it is not sufficiently embedded in the overall system of education. If so, that would explain why it remains a bit of a fremdkörper. Is the Secretary of State prepared to clarify the degree of customisation by recognising it and by introducing rules that limit that flexibility? He can also indicate that this diploma is not only about subjects that you do at a higher level, but sometimes also about subjects that you do at a lower level. What's your diploma? That kind of thing has to be known. What do you have access to with a diploma like that? Those are the questions that need to be answered to give it more body.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u34	This immediately affects Mr Grashoff's fundamental questions. I didn't say for nothing that this would make things more complicated in itself. In principle, it is possible to write on a numerical list that a student has done certain subjects at a higher level. A school can therefore make it clear and that is a reward for the hard work of a student and for the fact that he is good in a particular profession. The question is, what good is it gonna do for your follow-up study? It's no problem to go to college if you've done the Havo with three courses at vwo level. After all, with a Havo diploma, you can just go to college. It gets more complicated when you knock on the door of that diploma at a university, because a diploma with three courses at a vwo level is not yet a vwo-diploma. You're talking very fundamentally about the civilian effect of this kind of thing. I am a great supporter of completing subjects at a higher level, but sceptical about slipping. If you can do courses at a lower level, it will be very easy to say: I don't really like this course or I'm actually not very good at it, let me do it at a lower level. Then it is not an improvement in the quality of our education at all, but rather a deterioration.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u35	It's interesting to think about it. You soon fall into examples in these kinds of discussions, but I do. It is a very personal example, by the way. I once went to TU Delft with history in my curriculum. I don't think it was very interesting for that training if I had done that course at havo- or vwo-level. This shows that there is indeed a relationship between the opportunities you have to flow through education and certain limitations you have. Someone with dyslexia can be worse in languages and better in exact subjects anyway. Isn't that supposed to be the value of such an instrument?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u36	Mr Grashoff underestimates this. If you are going to do a technical education at TU Delft, you will have a lot to do with the technical courses you have done at vwo level, but of course there is also something like broad academic education. Mr Grashoff has also done languages, social studies and history at a high level. That bildung makes sure he's a highly evolved human being. It is not entirely wrong for universities to point out that it is very important that you have not only done that level in the monodiscipline in which you then study, but that you have done so across the board. I think that is a very valid point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u37	The next question, another subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u38	No matter how an example can be abused! But we'll talk about that again under the drink.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u39	The question is, of course, who did!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u40	My next topic concerns the broad secondary school and the multiple advice. I am pleased that the Secretary of State expressly states that he does not like agreements on single opinions and that he wants to discuss them. Does he also want to discuss this with the PO Council? It is also about the independence, the maturity of primary education to keep pace and not to be intimidated from secondary education. Does the Secretary of State agree with me that the teacher's professionalism also plays a role in this? In fact, I believe that such agreements interfere with the teacher's professionalism in primary education, but I still have to meet the teacher or master who then has the courage to stand up and say: I think that this child should receive a number of advice. That should actually happen. Then we'll have a teacher who'll do what he's doing. Finally, on the broad seventh grade: I would very much like to receive an answer from the Secretary of State on a longer term. I have the feeling that the broader middle class is already a gradually disappearing phenomenon over a much longer period of time. We used to have two-year bridge periods. You never hear about it again, but it was in our order. Can the Secretary of State say anything about it? Shouldn't we be a little more active in this broad junior class? I find that decline, which seems rather structural, alarming enough to really do something about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u41	On the first point, the advice at the end of primary school, I can be very brief. I fully agree with Mr Grashoff, so I will also speak to the PO Council. It does affect professionalism. He's talking about the teacher's professionalism. The great thing about the final opinion is that we also call it school advice. Not only the last teacher you had in the 8th grade, but also the teachers in the groups before and perhaps even the internal counselor come to an advice together. Of course, it's professional advice. If a school thinks that a child is on the cutting edge of havo and vwo, then such a child should receive a Havo/vwo advice and not be forced to choose one of the two. I'm gonna work on that. As far as the second point is concerned, I think we should first focus on the analysis and developments. When I read back the Education Report, I also see some caution in the education inspection. It notes a turnaround and also points to a risk, but itself indicates that it does not yet know enough what the motivations of schools are to shorten their bridge classes or to give certain departments a little more autonomy. We need to get a good picture of that first. I would like to give a long-term perspective and not just look back until 2008, before we do something about it. Mrs Siderius, Mr Rog, Mrs Ypma, Mr Van Meenen and Mr Slob called for attention to be paid to appropriate education and specifically to the problems of home-owners. It's an important subject. There is still a lot of work to be done in the area of appropriate education. However, I would like to stress once again that the problem of homeowners is not due to the introduction of appropriate education, but was one of the reasons for introducing appropriate education at the time. When discussions on appropriate education were held here in 2010, one of the holes in our system was that schools could easily refer parents and children: "Sorry, we can't help you, go to the next school." At that school they were told exactly the same story. This can no longer be done with appropriate education. It is precisely the fact that we have a duty of care and that a school must offer every child who enrols in a school a suitable place at that school or at another school in the partnership that is, in my view, a real step forward, even when it comes to reducing homeowners. With appropriate education, we solve the problems of the old system step by step. The actual provision of appropriate education for all pupils requires, of course, a substantial change, not only in thinking but also in doing. This means that school administrators, school leaders and people within the municipality must also be actively involved in guiding these children towards education. These major changes not only take time, but also require continuous attention and commitment from all concerned. We follow closely the introduction of appropriate education from my ministry and, of course, from the inspection. I also report to the Chamber on this very regularly. In the latest progress report, I indicated that I am going to make an extra effort along a number of roads to reduce the number of students sitting at home. First of all, by mapping much sharper and much better for how many children they are and who they are. I sometimes say, name names and numbers. We can stare at numbers, but that's just kids. Let's just make lists; this should be done especially at local level. One has to go on, call the bell and ask why someone doesn't go to school: "we have appropriate education now, register your child, then we'll look for a solution." That's the way to eventually bring the numbers down further. Bringing that better into view sometimes also requires perseverance. I am pleased to see that more and more collaborations choose to invest this perseverance function, sometimes in the partnership and sometimes in the municipality. This also includes more tailor-made opportunities for students who are temporarily or partially unable to attend school. All this with the ambition to have as few homeowners as possible by 2020 or at least with the ambition to let all students who come home go back to school within three months. Of course, all members are very curious about what has been happening since the introduction of appropriate education. At the end of the year, the Court will receive the latest figures. Let me also give some good examples to some of the problems we have experienced over the past few weeks and months. Take, for example, Midden-Limburg, where very hard work has been done to reduce the number of homeowners. The efforts of secondary education, the partnerships, have reduced the number of homeowners from around 60 to 80 to now an average of 8 to 10 on an annual basis. In my view, this is still 8 to 10 too many, but it is a significant reduction compared to the years before the introduction of appropriate education. In addition to the figures I send to the Chamber before the end of the year, she can also expect a letter from me about education at a location other than the school. I will make a number of proposals that will give more scope to guarantee the right to education for young people who are temporarily or partially unable to attend school. I think that much more is already possible within the appropriate education system, but if there is anything more to be offered, then the Chamber has asked me, of course, to do so. Mr Van Meenen has sparked the very fundamental debate or it would not help if we laid down a right of learning for pupils in the law. He even mentioned the Constitution. De facto, there is already a right to education in the Netherlands, if only because it is enshrined in international conventions which affect our current system. The law on compulsory education is such that it ensures that a young person uses that right. Parents should ensure that the child is enrolled in a school and also ensure that the child visits the school regularly. Since the introduction of appropriate education, schools have a duty to care for pupils so that they receive additional support when they need it. Students can also use and effect their rights. With the establishment of partnerships, there is also a clearly recognizable party in the region, which together with the municipalities has become responsible for solving the problems of pupils at home. If I had the feeling that a change in the law would, in a manner of speaking, mean that every child should have the right to good education and that the problem of homeowners would have been solved, then I would make that change immediately. In fact, I think I would have done that a long time ago. But with the inclusion of a right of learning in the law, I don't think the problem of homeowners will be solved at all. The solution to the problem is much more at the level of municipalities and schools, which must work together and succeed in finding a solution for pupils sitting at home. We need to make a big effort on that, and that's where all our energy needs to go.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u42	The Secretary of State rightly says that it is a very fundamental point, but then he makes the same mistake that I have made for a long time: assuming that it is all well arranged and that it is as logical as what children in the Netherlands can go to school. However, practice shows that this is not the case. There are thousands of kids sitting at home. Where this happens, it is precisely the lack of position for pupils and older people that is encountered. I suggest we get that sorted out. There must be much more active rights that parents, and therefore pupils, have in order to assert that right in any form whatsoever. That is another problem. The offer is either you're in school or you're at home. It is precisely this right that should make it possible to find a different arrangement under supervision. That is why I think it is very important to lay down that right. I think the Secretary of State and I can find each other. If it doesn't, it won't hurt. I will ask the Secretary of State for each motion if the Secretary of State does not go along with that in order to look closely with professors of education law at the way in which that should be done. I can see that this is complicated, but that is my request. Is the Secretary of State prepared to do this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u43	As far as regulation is concerned, my view is always quite simple: you have to start making regulations and submit things to Parliament if you solve a problem with them. I simply do not quite see what problem we are solving with Mr Van Meenen's proposal. De facto, there is already a right for children to receive education. Schools should organise a good educational place for children if they register there. The question is what Mr Van Meenen is asking for adds.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u44	A duty to a school is really something other than a parent's right. We see that this is not happening in practice. Students are simply refused. There is no right to that from the position of parents or pupils. That's my point. Hopefully the Secretary of State will be convinced by now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u45	No, because I do not think Mr Van Meenen's example is a good example. If children are refused a school, parents and pupils can enforce their rights with the law in hand, because the school has a duty to organise a good place for that child. I do see that this is also one of the things that has reappeared over the last few weeks, and that there are still schools that do not give sufficient form and content to this under the pretext of the argument that they do not know exactly what the duty of care means. However, I am quite strict in this: these schools too must implement the law. If we do this in a proper way, what Mr Van Meenen is asking for does not add anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u46	In spring, the Secretary of State said in the magazine Balance sheet about the 10,000 children who do not go to school: I don't see the problem; appropriate education is just there for every child. Now it appears in practice that this is not the case. The Children's Ombudsman has sent out really alarming signals: the duty of care is not met, there is no suitable place, the number of home seats is not falling. Even 90% of schools say they're circumventing care obligations. The only answer the Secretary of State has here today is: register your child primarily at a school, because schools have a duty of care; problem solved. Then how does the Secretary of State look at the 90% of schools that say they're avoiding the duty of care and prefer to transfer such children to another school, because it's all getting a little too complicated for them?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u47	I can be very brief about that: if those schools are there, please let me know which schools they are. Then we'll go after it with the inspection. I don't think the problem is that the law isn't right. The problem is compliance with the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u48	So I understand that the Secretary of State will have 90% of the Dutch schools examined by the Education Inspectorate in the next six months. Is that what the Secretary of State is proposing here? Surely it is not possible for children to be dragged from one school to another and get disappointed after disappointment and rejection after rejection? Apparently, the policy devised by the Secretary of State does not solve the problem of children who do not receive education. Isn't it time that the Secretary of State actually took measures to ensure that these children really get tailor-made work, so that they can, for example, receive part of their education at school and that compulsory schooling is respected much better? Why is the Secretary of State not prepared to do so, and why is it that the mantra that the duty of care is there and that everything is'so' solved, constantly floating around this room and in schools?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u49	Mrs Siderius spoke of 90%, but I absolutely cannot bring that percentage home. If she says that it is not possible for pupils and parents to be sent from one school to another, my response to that is simply: yes, it is not possible. I believe that schools have a duty to provide a suitable place for a student. Then let us all appeal to these schools as political, but also individual parents with pupils.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u50	The Christian Union stands for inclusive education, if possible. Children with a slight disability should simply be able to participate in mainstream education. Children who really need additional support should be able to participate in special education. However, I am now getting a lot of signals that children with disabilities who, in principle, could easily participate in mainstream education with some support will still be transferred to special education. These include children with Down syndrome and children with forms of autism. Does the Secretary of State recognize those signals and what is he going to do about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u51	I recognise Mrs Dik-Faber's signal, but that was one of the reasons for introducing appropriate education. The Netherlands does not have a good name in terms of inclusive education. We are one of the countries where children in the past too easily received an indication, a stamp, and were sent to a special school. I have the impression that the introduction of appropriate education has brought about a slight reversal. This makes it possible to create a place for children with physical or mental illness in mainstream education, instead of sending them to expensive special education. The money you save with this is used in regular education to have some extra hands and extra guidance. So, fortunately, I am using that word on behalf of both of us, namely that more and more schools are making that move to the other side.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u52	Unfortunately, I myself get many signals that point a different direction, among others from Each (in) but also from parent organisations. Too often things don't go well. I therefore ask the Secretary of State if he would like to talk to Elke(in) and the parents' organizations in order to find a solution. Previously, the Chamber adopted a motion by myself and my colleague Joël Voordewind on a window where parents can ask questions. Has that window been set up and functioning properly, so that we can take steps together on the basis of parents' experiences to secure a place in education for these children?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u53	Yeah, that window's there. For all questions about appropriate education, please visit the website www.passendonderwijs.nl. There is also a demand function behind this. In fact, we have a small army of educational consultants who actively look at how to create something like this for children and parents who sometimes need more help to get out with the school. If you have any signals that indicate that the shift in some regions may go to the other side, I am happy to get it. Then I would like to talk to the organisations you have just mentioned; I have not yet reached those signals. I think there are also many examples in the Netherlands where appropriate education is used as an opportunity to give children with disabilities much more a place in mainstream education, so that they can just go to school in the neighbourhood where they live and with friends around the corner.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u54	Sometimes you have those views and thoughts where you hope you're wrong. I hope I'm wrong, but I'm very worried about the number of signals I'm getting and the atmosphere around appropriate education. In my contribution, I made a comparison with the pgb file for a reason. I do not do that because I wish the Secretary of State to do so, because I do not wish any Secretary of State to do so. On the basis of this debate, I have the feeling that the Secretary of State is here with a certain calm: in fact it is all 90% in order and there is still a raffle here and there. If the difference in perception of reality is so great, then I am even more concerned about it. This means that the urgency and effectiveness of the Secretary of State will not be sufficient, because he is not sufficiently aware of the problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u55	Mr Grashoff does not have to convince me of the urgency of the problem. I see he's trying to do that by making a comparison with the pgb. I don't think this is entirely right. Many of the problems we are facing today are much more the old problems that have not yet been fully solved by the introduction of a new law, rather than the new problems associated with the introduction of this law. I think it is fair to say that we cannot deal with a number of problems from today to tomorrow. Think of fewer homeowners and more children who can get a place with extra help in mainstream education, i.e. more inclusive education. I think it takes a number of years for the final positive effects of appropriate education to land well in all classes. Until then, we will discuss this regularly in the Chamber. I will continue to inform the Chamber of the developments. We're gonna put the stick in there every six months. As far as I'm concerned, the Chamber keeps me on top of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u56	I'll help the Secretary of State hope so. I feel that we should look at it in a much more fundamental way. The necessary conditions have not been sufficiently met. That's a system restriction. If that limitation is in place, it cannot be solved without deep measures and we have a serious problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u57	Mr Grashoff should then be more specific about this fundamental system restriction. I can't take them all the way home.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u58	In particular, the size of the classes and the unimaginable attention and care required to provide education in a good way with children with a clearly higher demand for care in a group of 30 pupils, for that particular child and for those 29 others. I have a strong feeling that this is heavily underestimated.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u59	Someone who used to be in special education and is now in regular education requires extra attention, hands and expertise at school level. I don't underestimate that. However, I do not see why this could not be done in mainstream education, because the child brings money for additional support. The extra attention and expertise was given to such a child first in special education. That's not cheap and it costs extra money. That's the beauty of appropriate education. You couldn't do that in the old days because there wouldn't be any money coming to mainstream education. In the current system, that money can come with it. So I don't see it as an obstacle, but as an opportunity. That does not mean that special education has disappeared today or tomorrow. In fact, I think this will always exist for a specific group of students. The possibilities to offer more customization and to give children who used to go to the sbo a place in regular primary education are indeed there in my view.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u60	I am glad that GroenLinks also draws attention to the problems it raises in the regular schools. Among other things, by introducing appropriate education, our initiative law is even more necessary. I'd like to comment on the homeowners. I just talked about the duty of care. I would now like to comment on the position of parents. The Secretary of State was also at the demonstration of homeowners. On stage, the Secretary of State told the parents who were on the Square: you should simply enroll your child in a school. The Secretary of State repeated that today. Isn't that a little naive? These parents have of course already registered their child in a school, but the school could not provide the support or bypassed the duty of care. So these parents are just empty-handed. Isn't it rather naive to give the advice: register your child at a school? Does the Secretary of State consider that all these parents should go to court to enforce the right to education?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u61	That is not very naive, because not all the parents and children I spoke to during that demonstration had registered their child in a school. It'll start with that. You need to register your child at a school to enable that school to look with a partnership at what exactly is needed to give that child a suitable place. That's the very first step. I repeat again here today: parents must take a first step before anything can happen. If schools run away from their duty of care, parents can enforce that duty with the law in their hands. In fact, I think they are very much in favour of this. When schools throw their hats at it and do not provide a suitable place for pupils, they ultimately fail to fulfil their legal obligations.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u62	These children have been enrolled in a school, but they have fallen out, for example because it did not fit. They came home because of this and they did not manage to go to another school because they do not have the right support. I find it shocking that the Secretary of State for Education says that if it all doesn't work out, you should go to court. His colleagues have already ensured that the right to care in home care has been lost. The right to education is also lost. That is precisely why Mr Van Meenen's motion is so important.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u63	I fundamentally disagree with Mrs Siderius. It may well be that a student falls out of education, but then it is important to ensure that he returns to it as soon as possible. Nor can I hear Mrs Siderius' solution to this problem. After all, it starts with a school that together with parents and students looks at what is needed to give a child a good place. Customisation can be used. Suppose for any reason a child cannot go to school five days a week even those children were at the manifestation then it may also be helped with part-time school and some learning at home or learning at another institution. I'd like to offer those possibilities.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u64	My question is in line with the latter. In the view of the Secretary of State, what legal possibilities are there for these forms of tailor-made work, either limited in time or longer in time, considering what the child needs to design and offer? It's often still stuck with the obligation to be there. That bump has made a lot of kids homeowners. What possibilities does the Secretary of State see in this respect?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u65	I see two possibilities. I have already mentioned in an earlier debate an article in the Law on compulsory education which provides that a student in the event of illness may be temporarily or partially relieved of the obligation to attend daily school. That article can use schools to set up customization. There are children who are chronically or severely ill and who can't go to school every day either, but maybe one or two days a week. Supported with some education at home or in the hospital or with videoconferencing they can come a long way. I don't see why this couldn't stand up for this target group. The second possibility brings me to the letter on education at another location. In areas where this has perhaps not yet been fully clarified, we can tighten this up a little more in order to fund the possibilities of tailor-made work for students who really need it even more.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u66	Can I interpret this in such a way that the Secretary of State, in his letter, elaborates on both options and that he also sets out the contours and, for my part, the rules and lines of the game, so that the educational field can find solutions within that playing field?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u67	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u68	In my view, the interruption of Mr Bishop is precisely at the heart of the matter. The Secretary of State says he's expanding the possibilities of schools for arrangements. That's what this duty of care is all about. What matters to me is that an individual parent or student cannot derive any right from it. This one's not in a position to ask about a school. The school is put in a position to offer it. That is why it is so important that the other side, the side of the parent and the student, which is precisely what this is about, should be placed in a position to enforce it, but not in a court of law, because when they come to court, it is still the fact that the law of learning is not there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u69	I am not aware of any case that it would run into this particular subject. Parents and schools should agree on the proper implementation of compulsory schooling. That sometimes has some feet in the earth and sometimes it takes a long time. Sometimes parents and school do not come out together and they get some help from the educational consultant. If they don't get out yet, there's a dispute committee. If that is not yet to the full satisfaction, then parents can always make the corridor to the judge. I always hope it doesn't have to come to that, because in the meantime that problem will not be solved. Nor do I know exactly what they can enforce with the right to education in the hands of those schools. If a school doesn't offer that education, do they have to go the same way in order to finally enforce it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u70	If the Secretary of State does not know that, my question in the motion is whether he wants to know and whether he is going to look into it with legal education law to see what the proceeds are for those for whom we are all doing this, namely those students and those parents.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u71	I am absolutely prepared to take a good look at it and to improve it, if I can. Mr Van Meenen cannot convince me that a right of learning adds something to what is already there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u72	I also asked questions about special education. I don't know what block they're gonna end up in. It seems logical to me that they should be included in the appropriate education.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u73	We also completed all yesterday's questions in writing. There are also these questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u74	Thank you. Then Mrs Siderius has questions about the answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u75	Can I interrupt a few times? I've asked several questions about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u76	It can't be endless.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u77	I have a question about the closure of the Ambelt, a school for special education. I also have questions about the budget for severely disabled pupils and about unbundling. There is a very high risk at the Ambelt. In the Zwolle-Apeldoorn region, 13 special schools are closed. The Secretary of State says that most students can stay at their own location. Of course, that's not true. I'll read it for you: in Steenwijk, students must go from special education to the Tromp Master School; in Nunspeet they must go to Nuborgh College; in Meppel they must go to City and Esch; in Hardenberg they must go to Vechtdal College; in Deventer they must go to the Etty Hillesum Lyceum. Those students can't stay at their own special school at all. They have to go to regular education. Then how does the Secretary of State feel about saying that all students can stay at the same location?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u78	There remain two major locations for the children who are really dependent on special education. The directors of special education, together with the schools in mainstream education, have seen opportunities to make it possible for a lot of children to get a good place in mainstream education, with some extra support, in line with what Mrs Faber said.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u79	Then the Secretary of State has misinformed us, because those students cannot stay at their own location at all. That's just what the Secretary of State sent us last night at 1:00 a.m. It's really a problem. The Secretary of State says the director says everything's gonna be okay, but the parents are in a rush. Their child with disabilities and behavioral problems will soon have to go to regular education and will end up in classes of 35 pupils with enormous incentives. How many homeowners is that gonna pay for that, exactly?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u80	As far as I'm concerned, none.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u81	Can the Secretary of State guarantee that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u82	Mrs Siderius, you had three questions. You will have an opportunity to ask a question and a follow-up question. I think you had already announced that you wanted to ask a question on another subject. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u83	Yes. That's good. We'll write that down. Then there is the guarantee that there will be no homeowners due to the closure of the Ambelt. That's noted. I should like to comment briefly on the funding for severely disabled pupils. In March, we received a letter from the Secretary of State stating that he would reserve 8 million for this specific arrangement. After that, he did some research. The study showed that 1,250 pupils are eligible for this funding. Then the Secretary of State said that he has adjusted the budget and is going to make it 5 million, €4,000 per pupil. Turns out what? The scheme is overwritten and now the Secretary of State makes it €2,000. This puts schools, especially tyltyl schools, in great difficulty. Is the Secretary of State prepared to guarantee the budget of €4,000 per pupil?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u84	We have made good agreements in advance, including with tyltyl education. It would be a full budget, and in the event of a transfer, the price per pupil would be brought down somewhat. I do not see why suddenly more money is needed for exactly the same tasks that would have been carried out last year for that amount.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u85	Last year, 10 million was available. This time there is a ceiling of 5 million. That's just a half cut of the budget. Soon, schools will have to negotiate with the parents of these pupils on education and care in these schools. This is exactly what we didn't want. We did not want directors of these schools to have to go to the parents with a collection box to beg for money. Is the Secretary of State going to solve this problem, or is he going to tell these schools that they can cook in their soup?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u86	I never say that to schools anyway. If I'm doing Mrs Siderius a favor, I'd be happy to dive into that one more time. I thought we had a very good arrangement, including the schools that teach severely disabled children. We said in the front: this is going to work. If Mrs Siderius now gets the impression that there are problems there, I will certainly dive into them. For example, I can go into this in more detail in the progress report received by the Chamber next month.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u87	Okay. That's a good promise. Then I assume that the €4,000 will simply be guaranteed per pupil. Of course I'd like to. Otherwise, I will come back to that with the Secretary of State in December, because this is really a problem. It cannot be that we do not provide them with good education. The same applies to the unbundling of special education. This will threaten the right of life of schools. Tyltyl schools are schools with sometimes only 90 pupils: 40 in primary education and 50 in secondary education. The Secretary of State knows that, too. If you tear that apart, the number of students in these schools will be below the minimum standard. How is the Secretary of State going to ensure that this does not happen and that we do not lose these special schools in our educational system?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u88	When it comes to what I have promised, the Acts must speak for themselves. The vso is still very much linked to the po, but of course it is also just a form of secondary education. The unbundling of the vso is an operation that is still ongoing. All kinds of discussions are still taking place, including with those involved in tyltyl education. Let's just wait and see what kind of arrangement comes out of it. It is not the intention at all to say now formalisticly: these schools are covered by a lifting standard and should therefore disappear. On the contrary, I think it is very important that this form of education should be maintained.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u89	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u90	I understand from the corridors that the Secretary of State intends to tolerate them for five years and then to include them in that unbundling. Then you shift the problem before you to next cabinets and that can't be the intention. I think we really need to keep these schools alive. I'm glad the Secretary of State thinks that's important, too. I therefore hope that he will now say: we are going to exempt these schools from unbundling. It's only 10, 15 schools. It's really tiny.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u91	I would like to say to Mrs Siderius: let us wait and see. I will also ensure that the Chamber is informed of this. We can then, if necessary, always have another discussion about it. I come to my fourth block: the curriculum. For what children should learn, a pathway under the heading Education2032 has started in the foundation education. Several spokesmen responded, partly in response to a kind of round table session. I do not know whether the committee and Mr Schnabel have visited individual MPs, but at least there is an initial outline of Schnabel's results. This is not only his work: it is a platform in which people from education are involved, teachers, school leaders, administrators, business people and scientists, and look at the situation with regard to the curriculum in the Netherlands. To be honest, I am very excited about this and impressed by it. That is what I am because of the amount of people they have reached and spoken to and the input they have received, but also because of what it brings about: the conversations in schools, the energy in teachers, in students, in scientists, in parents, in people outside education. In other words, there is broad support. The discussion on whether what we teach our children in school is still relevant and future-proof is a topic that lives enormously. It is now very tempting to respond to the initial findings of Platform Education2032. I hope that with the permission of the Chamber, I will not do so for a moment, because I think it is a good idea for this committee to come out with the first sketches, just to start the discussion. If things are felt to be too short, that aspects are underexposed or that they feel that things are going in the wrong direction, I would like to invite Members of Parliament to respond actively, not only in this forum, but also towards Paul Schnabel and his people. Put different wishes and views on, for example, English or information at a young age or more attention to citizenship, human rights and social traineeships, especially down to them, I would say. On the basis of the final opinion, I would like to discuss the content of the opinion with the Chamber and the follow-up steps to be taken. In response to Mr Duisenberg's argument, I think it is important that teachers in particular are very much involved in the final development of the curriculum. The nice side-catching of this whole process and such a discussion is that it is not just about the end result, what does the final curriculum look like, what themes should be in it, how detailed should it be and so on? But also the ownership of the curriculum for teachers is becoming much greater. This is something I have seen, for example, in growing countries such as Finland, Scotland and Norway, where periodic reviews of the curriculum are much more normal than in the Netherlands. The feeling of "that's something that's our teachers" is much stronger there than here in the Netherlands. I think that is a very positive aspect. Within the vmbo we will not wait for the advice of the Platform Education2032 when it comes to updating the content and making it more contemporary and challenging. Mrs. Jadnanancing asked for that. With the introduction of new profiles in VMBO, we make vocational education more recognizable, robust and attractive. The vocational electives not only offer opportunities for regional coloring of VMBO, connecting with local activity, but also offer more opportunities and space for more student-oriented talent development. Students can choose and get to know and develop their talents through these courses, in which career orientation and guidance also gets a much more prominent place than is currently the case. I'm pretty excited about it. A number of schools started this new curriculum in the professional profiles last year and they are very satisfied with it. For example, when it comes to technical training such as metalworking, in Schoonhoven this is really something different than in IJmuiden near Tata Steel; you can then see with the local business how coloring can be given to the subjects in order to ensure that when children leave school, they also have a chance of getting a job. A number of Members have asked me about refugee children. We have already explained this in detail in the letter from the Minister and myself on education for asylum seekers. Some specific questions have been asked about the budgets. A number of detailed questions have already been answered in writing. Mrs Siderius, Mr Grashoff and Mr Van Klaveren asked for the budgetary impact on the budget to be passed on. That is really something we take into account in the decision-making on the Spring Note. It is always difficult to predict the extent of the influx of new refugees. That will depend a lot on it, but let me make it clear that I think that funding for these students should simply be secured, whether it is a lot of money or less money. Eventually we have extra funding for these children and that money should be there and stay. On Mr Rog's question whether an additional year's funding per pupil in primary education is sufficient, I can at least say that I have the impression that this is the case. The additional funding is needed to accommodate children in a quiet environment, for example a language class, where specialized teachers teach these children Dutch. Within a year they often go back to regular group education and after that year regular funding applies, including disadvantage in the case of pupils of parents with a low level of education. With the current high numbers of newcomers, bottlenecks can arise, for example in pupils entering just after the counting date. When it comes to a few people, it is often possible to solve this problem, but when it comes to several students, the school says that it is really a problem. These are developments that cannot be summed up in regular, generic regulations. That is why we have made it possible for these exceptional situations for schools to contact the Ministry of Education and Science and we also make customization possible. Schools know this and also apply for additional funding. I will see to it that they are dealt with quickly within our ministry. In this way we can offer tailor-made solutions, as Mr Slob, Mr Grashoff and Mr Rog asked me. Mr Van Meenen asked about the problem that the resources that could be used as additional funding after the first year are now divided into the level of education of parents and that many refugee children have relatively highly educated parents, which means that schools are not entitled to this budget. For the first year, all kinds of additional arrangements apply, in combination with that possible customization. Then the weight control applies, but it applies to children of low-educated parents. Children of highly educated parents usually grow up in a much more linguistic environment and therefore learn Dutch much faster. So far, this has allowed schools to get out of their way. However, I am open for the longer term to opportunities to improve weight control. In doing so, I will look at other indicators and other ways of allocating resources. I will look, as Mrs Straus has recently asked in an AO, at the possibilities of setting up appropriate education or looking at other forms of indicators that give a better prediction of possible backwardness than the indicator we are using now. Before Christmas, I will send a letter to the Court on the weight regime and put forward a proposal on the substance of the revision of the system. Mr Krol asked about the capacity of schools when it comes to the influx of refugees. What does this issue do with the workload on schools and the size of classes, does it not make it difficult for appropriate education to get through? The honest answer is that we do indeed see that it sometimes demands a lot from schools and is also a real challenge. That is what we see in all the agencies dealing with the flow of refugees. I must therefore pay great compliments here to schools which see it as a responsibility and a moral duty to do this properly, despite the fact that much is coming towards them. I appreciate that. When it comes to class size, we do see that children are often received in separate classes upon entry, so that it does not have a direct effect on group size in regular education. Then I'll go to the last block, about integral child centers. Mrs. Ypma asked me to come forward with a bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u92	The last block is over. Then we'll go over the questions about the previous block first. That seems clear to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u93	The Secretary of State has clearly indicated that tailor-made solutions can be found. Now I have emphasized the situation of schools which, after 1 October, only receive refugee pupils before 1 April. My question to the Secretary of State is actually very simple. Can he promise that schools that are in such a situation can then still be financed afterwards in proportion to the number of months they have taken in those refugee children? If he promises that, if that is a tailor-made solution he can offer, then that would prevent me from having to table a motion on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u94	We're assuming two dates. For most of the schools, that just works out well. So I'd actually like to stick to that. If schools do not make good use of this, for example because it concerns a large number that, so to speak, has arrived a week after the time limit and there are real justifications for saying that you cannot reasonably solve this one, two, three, then we offer tailor-made solutions. That's the arrangement I'm proposing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u95	Therefore, this tailor-made approach may mean that it is paid in proportion, or that it is already offered in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u96	That is then in individual cases. If we make this a generic rule, it will really be a bureaucratic monstrosity. Working with those two count dates really works really well. We can also see that 90% of schools can do well with that. Let us not now draw up more detailed regulations for this very small group, with all kinds of application pressure, but let us take a good look at them. If there are reasonable arguments why a school can't handle it properly, then we will come up with a solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u97	I wonder whether the communication lines are sufficiently open, because the signals we get through the PO Council, among other things, give us a different picture. Are schools aware of the possibilities of this customization? My question has something to do with this, but it affects a slightly different aspect. The Secretary of State has said that extra funding in primary education for the first year is sufficient. After that, the children would flow into mainstream education. In the case of children who enter and who do not speak the language at all, I cannot imagine that you should not spend years doing special things, making special efforts. Is there not a great deal to be done in the second year? In addition, the Secretary of State said something about the weight regulation, but perhaps I did not fully understand him. Does he intend to adapt the weight regulation in such a way that refugee children with parents with a high level of education, but with a Syrian level of education, who are not so crazy because they do not know the language, will also be covered by the weight regulation?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u98	These are two very different issues. The first question is: do you need more than one year of extra funding? I wouldn't be for that. We are dealing with a flow of refugees which is much larger than the flow of two years ago. This means that more money must also be made available to accommodate these children in education. But then the massive expansion of the scheme is a second. It is about larger numbers, but in my view it is not about more serious problems. Children of highly educated parents sometimes make huge leaps. I was visiting the azc school in Katwijk last week. Some children come from a more disadvantaged position to the Netherlands, but there are also children of doctors, children with parents who value good education very much and who help their children out of school. It's parents who make sure homework is done properly. Those kids are making huge jumps. I do not think that we should unnecessarily problem it in the sense that every child who comes here will need a great deal of extra guidance after that first year. That's possible if the parents are very low-educated. Then these children are covered by the weight regulation and there is extra money in the regular funding. We're gonna take another look at that weight control. Maybe she could get a little more fine tuned. In the weight scheme, we are now only looking at the level of education of parents. Perhaps a combination of factors predicts even better what the position of children is and when they are at risk of disadvantage.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u99	I really do not believe that children from war zones who not only have language problems, but often also war traumas, will no longer need special attention in education after one year. It just doesn't work for me. Then I think it would be wiser to broaden the scheme. I leave it to the Secretary of State to think of sensible rates and such. Just because you don't want to take care of it because maybe some of it won't be necessary, seems to me to tie the cat to the bacon. Then we get follow-up discussions in the Chamber and fuss from the field.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u100	I find this strange. Refugees are of all times. We are now talking about larger numbers, but we also had refugees two and three years ago, and then the scheme apparently did.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u101	Where GroenLinks wants more and more and now even wants a weight regulation for refugees, 40% of whom do not even come from war zones, we naturally want less. The extra money made available is for asylum seekers and for status holders. No distinction is made between status holders and the flow of refugees who still have status. This means that these substantial amounts of money also go to children of parents who do not have any status. I read some amounts for: po €4,000, for €7,000, it's all neatly put together. But will you explain what a status is? Apparently, someone with no status has an immediate right to all kinds of facilities, including education. Then why would one still want to apply for a status?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u102	Asylum seekers, i.e. people who are still in proceedings and who do not yet have a residence permit, have different rights than those who eventually get a status, being a permit to stay here temporarily or for a longer period of time. However, we do not make a distinction in this regard with regard to children under the age of compulsory schooling.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u103	The same applies to all those "status seekers" who will not get any status at all on an x-moment, for example because they come from Pakistan or from safe areas in Afghanistan, from Turkey, or from other countries where there is no war. So we simply give these children the same rights and the same education as the authentic refugees. Am I getting that right? How much money does gross Modo go to children of parents without status right now? Can we not spend that money in a different way, for example, on appropriate education?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u104	If a person has no right to stay here and hear about it at the end of his proceedings, he must return as soon as possible. However, many international conventions and regulations stipulate that children under school age, up to 18 years old, are entitled to good education in the meantime, even if they are awaiting their asylum procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u105	Can the Secretary of State then give an estimate of how much time according to the COA, or the authorities in charge of granting the status, is between the beginning of the investigation and the expulsion of those parents with children? What's "in the meantime"?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u106	Those deadlines are changing tremendously. Normally, the IND tries to do so quickly, but given the large numbers we are talking about, it takes longer for refugees to hear the decision on their case.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u107	A brief question, Mr Grashoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u108	I'll be very brief. The Secretary of State says that additional funding for refugee children, if necessary, will be included in the Spring Note. Can the Secretary of State undertake that if additional money is required, this will not be at the expense of other funds earmarked for the United Kingdom?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u109	Not only the money for the vo, but the total financial demand associated with this flow of refugees must eventually be put on the table around the spring note. I am not making any commitment as to how this is resolved. This will lead to additional costs in the field of education, but also to additional costs in the area of care and in the area of the V&J budget. There is, of course, a very large cost. The cabinet should look into how to solve this in spring.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u110	And then we'll talk about it. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u111	Finally, I would like to say a few words about the integrated child centres. Mrs Ypma has made a fervent plea for this. I also get very excited when I see well-run integrated child centers. At the beginning of this week I was allowed to reopen my old school; something I normally don't do. The name had changed. The school used to be called the KBS: the Queen Beatrix School. Now the school is called Stella Nova. It is a fantastic building, where everything is combined: child care, extracurricular care, everything under one roof. I am seeing more and more of these concepts emerging. I am very much in favour of that. Ms. Ypma asked to come up with a law to solve all obstacles in one go. I'm still looking for exactly what she wants. When you look at integral child centers, it is of course about the form. It is one of the ways to achieve a continuous learning line. Institutions wishing to opt for far-reaching integration of education and childcare into an organisation can do so already within the existing frameworks. I see good examples of this and I mentioned a number of them. That list's been a long time, too. I often say to schools: don't write too many reports and send letters now, but just do it! Get on with it, because a lot is already possible. Local bottlenecks can be experienced. Let me mention a few. A large part of the bottlenecks are, in my view, soluble. On this point, Mr Asscher and I are already taking a number of steps. For example, one can think of the inspection frameworks which apply on the one hand to education and, on the other hand, to reception. One can also think of the rules on the working-age/child-age ratio for extracurricular care, which are more in line with the usual ratios in education. These are some of the things that we take into account in the new supervision. It is also possible to consider adapting the quality requirements for childcare in such a way as to facilitate cooperation between reception and education. So when Mrs Ypma asks for regulation to be aligned, often it is not a matter of legislation, but of lower regulation, I can give her a good look. There are also problems that I believe should be addressed by the sector itself. I am thinking of the various collective agreements in education and childcare. We don't make collective agreements. It is really up to the trade unions and employers to bring them much more in line with each other. In addition, there are bottlenecks that the OCW Ministry can do a little less about, for example the VAT costs resulting from the secondment of staff. Everything related to VAT regulation has a strong European legal component. It is difficult for us in the Netherlands to deviate from that. Finally, there are some bottlenecks linked to the fundamentals of the system. I am thinking here of the different ways in which education and childcare are paid. Education is a public provision paid for by public funds. Childcare is a provision paid by parents, whereby parents receive a tax allowance through a number of institutions. This means, however, that these two different flows of money must be separated. In my opinion, that is right, because I would not want money for good education to go to childcare. For this reason, the two flows of money must be clearly separated from each other in order to avoid accidents. At the moment, I am working with my colleague from SZW to investigate the substantive motives and intensity of the cooperation, the desire to cooperate and the obstacles experienced. In doing so, we have asked the sector organisations to tell us what exactly they are dealing with and to give concrete examples on this point, so that we can take advantage of it. I'd love to wait for the results of that investigation. If these results are available, I can then inform the Chamber so that we can have a good debate on them in the spring of 2016. At that time, we can consider whether there is any reason to facilitate the approximation of laws and regulations.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u112	In my contribution, I brought this up. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his comprehensive answer on this point. It is indeed a complicated subject. What possibilities does the Secretary of State see for making a number of things possible this school year? The Secretary of State is clear about the inspection: one integrated inspection framework for GD and education. However, I hear everywhere that one direction is a real condition for making the child center a success. You can't do that right now. It cannot be a single legal entity from which it is controlled. This creates a fragmentation of money and knowledge. In the case of conflicting interests, it is precisely because of the separate flows of money that we must, of course, keep separate that no decision can be taken. Is the Secretary of State prepared to take concrete action to make it possible for that one legal person to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u113	This argument is raised more often. However, I also see schools that have resolved this in a very good way. They have created a holding company and they ensure that there are two legal entities under that holding company, in order to prevent money for education from being mixed with the money for care, because if that happens, we run the risk of giving up educational money in matters for which it is not intended. The one who has the lead there is one and the same person. That's fine. It does require a legal construction. I have also regularly pointed this out to those involved. It is said that we all want it in one organisation with mixed funding flows. But then it gets a lot more complicated. There are ways of doing it and achieving that one direction, but that has to be done under clear conditions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u114	I also hear that it happens in some places, but also that it is incredibly difficult and made incredibly difficult, while it fits so well with what we want to achieve, including the Secretary of State. How can he ensure that the best interests of the child are at the heart of the child, and indeed that of the parents, for whom it is also very pleasant, and not the separate system of education and care? That legal person is very much needed. It is mentioned, and I am sure the Secretary of State knows this, as the biggest problem and as an obstacle.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u115	Again, I see schools that have found something on that. I would say to anyone who wants to take over that model: look how they did it there and apply it to your own school; enter it. By the way, I also see that it is quite possible to organise very good integrated child centres, where it is not a single holding company, but where there is perfect cooperation between a childcare organisation and an organisation for the school, where the director of the institution, together with the director of the other, makes good plans and thus makes good arrangements. There are attractive examples in many countries around us and in the Scandinavian countries. There is a lot of extracurricular care and a lot of childcare not in the school, but in an organisation with very close cooperation. I think that the call that is often made by education, that it only works if schools are allowed to do childcare and we are allowed to mix these money flows, is a step too far. I really don't think that's necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u116	You have so little interrupted, Mrs Ypma, that I will, of course, allow you to ask this third question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u117	That's very nice, thank you very much for your coulance, Mr. Chairman. I shall confine myself to one brief question. The Secretary of State is gonna hit the nail on the head when he says it's conditional that you work together from one organization, one team, with one control and one person who cuts the buttons. I would like to urge once again that the Secretary of State, in his consultation with SZW, which has the lead in this matter, should make the legal person a priority and that he should see if we can improve this, because many of the primary schools I visit ask for this and would like something with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u118	Working together always requires two parties. Working together can also be very good. Then you don't have to have one more person chopping buttons. Sometimes it helps to put two people together who can get along well and who can agree on something. It is the same in this house when you talk about cabinets in which two people from two parties sit together and try to get out together. They're gonna go a long way too. Why couldn't that happen within an integrated child centre with childcare on the one hand and a school on the other? I see fantastic examples. It is therefore not a necessary condition. Mrs Ypma would like a look at the holding structure, at the legal framework within which it is already possible. She wants us to look together with the sector organisations to see if we can find some sort of format for schools that want to adopt it. She wants us to simplify it so that not everyone has to reinvent the wheel. I think that is a very good suggestion that I will be working on. A law that stipulates that funding flows can be mixed or, as I sometimes hear in education, that one actually wants to go a step further, so that education starts from 2 or 3 years, with a price tag of a small billion, that is perhaps a deep desire of some schools, but it is not something we are going to fight for each other during this cabinet period. Mr. Chairman. I'm through with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u119	Thank you. Then the first term has come to an end. I propose that we suspend very briefly and then proceed with the second term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u120	The next item is the second term of office. First of all, Mrs Siderius has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u121	Mr. Chairman. I am going to start as a madman, because I would like to table four motions in the short time I have left, and I would also like to say something about appropriate education. The Secretary of State talked all the time about the duty of care. When you're a parent, you register your child at a school, all the problems are solved. We really think that's very naive. That's way too easy. The SP has therefore tabled an amendment to set up a fund of 60 million for education for homeowners. This makes it possible to deliver customization. You can really see what measures are needed. In addition, we have also tabled an amendment for 200 million to support education in the classroom, because appropriate education is in danger of falling apart. My first motion concerns the closure of the special school De Ambelt. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the special education school must close down "de Ambelt" because of the introduction of appropriate education;]] [[noting that regular education is insufficiently capable of providing appropriate support and guidance to pupils of "de Ambelt" with specific behavioural problems and limitations;]] [[Considers that the closure of "de Ambelt" will lose crucial knowledge and expertise of education for pupils with disabilities or behavioural problems in the region;]] [[calls on the Government to prevent the closure of "de Ambelt" special education school in order to preserve the specific knowledge and expertise of education for pupils with disabilities and behavioural problems in the region,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Siderius and Mr Slob. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-VIII-19]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u122	My next motion was also co-signed by Mr Slob. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the special funding scheme for severely limited (emb) pupils has been transferred through the Education Implementation Service, which threatens to cut the budget per pupil by half;]] [[noting that the problem of insufficient educational benefits for pupils with severe multiple disabilities requiring more care than can be provided by the school remains intact;]] [[calls on the Government to guarantee the necessary budget of €4,000 per severely limited pupil through the scheme special funding for embezzlers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Siderius and Mr Slob. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-VIII-20]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u123	My next motion concerns the unbundling of special education. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Government intends to unveil special education;]] [[noting that this unbundling for tyltyl schools (for pupils with severe multiple disabilities) means that schools fall below the lifting standard in terms of pupil numbers and have to close the doors;]] [[noting that this unbundling of tyltyl schools can be a major step in the right direction for the development of these schools;]] [[calls on the Government to exempt schools for pupils with severe multiple disabilities who do not offer diploma-oriented education from the unbundling of special education,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Siderius and Mr Van Meenen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-VIII-21]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u124	Finally, I have a motion on safe premises. There have been many accidents in the past, causing pupils to have a lifetime disability or disability. It can't be. If work is to be done safely in the workplace, then so must school. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that 72% of controls in practical premises did not provide sufficient protection for moving parts in machinery or even complete absence of safety devices;]] [[Whereas it is important for pupils to learn how to work safely in their training because they must do so in the workplace;]] [[calls on the Government to tighten up checks on practical premises in schools by means of unannounced inspections and in the event of failure to put safety in practice premises, to close these premises until security is in order,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Siderius. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-VIII-22]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u125	Then I leave the 20 seconds I have left to Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u126	Yeah, yeah, equality within the SP. Mr. Chairman. This budget went better than last year's, I must say. Then she was stopped in the brink of the day and the evening in the wake of the debate on that maleized loan system. You remember. This week we have been better able to talk about education. I will begin with the research that the Minister is going to do on the gap between high and low educated people. It's very good that she's going to do that research, but I still have a suggestion to take with her. That's why I'm filing a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Minister of Education is concerned about a growing gap between higher and lower educated people and that the emancipation of education is under threat;]] [[noting that research is being carried out into this gap, including the impact of "shadow education" (homework guidance, private schools);]] [[considers that ethnic segregation in education (black and white schools) also hampers emancipation;]] [[calls on the Government to consider in this study the extent to which segregation in education can be reduced,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-VIII-23]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u127	It's very good that there's gonna be a letter about the lump sum payment. Mr Duisenberg will be tabling a motion on my behalf shortly, so that will be continued. On the elaboration of my own motion on the 3,000 teachers and the missing millions comes a result next spring. Can't we go a little faster? Maybe I'll hear about that. I consider the Education Supervisory Board to be an unnecessary phenomenon. That's why I'm filing a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that education is regularly plagued by educational institutions facing financial difficulties due to reckless real estate investments, financial resources that are misused or drivers who receive generous premiums;]] [[Whereas supervisory boards fail to carry out adequate checks on colleges;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how the tasks of the Supervisory Board can be transferred to the Supervisory Board,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-VIII-24]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u128	Mr President, I see the clock. I'm going over time anyway. I'll consult with the Defense spokesperson.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u129	Okay. I think that's a good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u130	Mrs Jadnansing is going to table a fantastic motion about school costs in the MBO, along with Mrs Siderius. On the loan system, Mr Rog is going to table a fine motion on the subject of medical students. And then, last but not least, the dance and music talents. I have a motion on that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Netherlands has a great deal of talent, such as those who take part in dance and music education, the so-called DaMu programmes;]] [[Whereas the cost to parents of talent education may be a barrier, for example due to high travel costs, which may prevent talents from taking up talent training;]] [[noting that there is a talent scheme in secondary education designed to stimulate talent, but now does not contain sufficient resources to meet additional costs in exceptional cases and furthermore does not allow the scope of this scheme to contribute to travel costs;]] [[calls on the government, from the resources of the bait bonus for new teachers at master level, to mobilise resources for the talent scheme and to allow secondary schools to provide financial support for, for example, travel expenses,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Jasper van Dijk, Mr Duisenberg and Mr Mohandis. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-VIII-25]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u131	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister and the Secretary of State for answering the various questions. I think we have had a very good debate with each other over the last one and a half days or two days. My plea was centered around an agenda. We're in good shape. We are a so-called top five knowledge-based economy at the moment. However, if we look at the trends that exist in the world and how we stand about the so-called 'human capital', our people, I think that is the plea I made on behalf of the VVD that we need ambition and that we need to make sharp choices. The VVD has set up an agenda for that. We did send it yesterday by app to the Minister and the Secretary of State, in a way of the 21st century. This human capital calendar has the title: Maximum, the new normal. I am now taking two points out of that agenda. The first has to do with the culture of improvement. There have been answers to the questions we had on this subject, but they were just not concrete enough for my group, yet we find this culture of improvement in schools a very important point. For example, 60% of teachers are currently participating in peer reviews. We would like to bring that percentage to 100% as soon as possible. Moreover, the entire Committee of the European Parliament has spoken out in favour of this. According to the Chamber, it is important for education to discuss possibilities for improvements within the school. However, we are not going to decide in The Hague how to do that, but we want to express and facilitate our support very clearly. We believe that the Minister and the Secretary of State could facilitate a movement in this direction. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas having an improvement culture in schools is a crucial factor in improving the quality of education;]] [[Whereas the government has set budget targets for the improvement culture including the objective of 100% of teachers participating in peer review by 2020;]] [[noting that there are still many schools that do not have this culture of improvement, while there are many initiatives that accompany this, such as Stichting leerstracht;]] [[noting that the Council of MBOs and the teaching associations for teachers in the MBOs have drawn up a scheme aimed at promoting the achievement and maintenance of an improvement culture at all MBO schools;]] [[calls on the Government to engage in discussions with the PO Council and the VO Council and to call on them to prepare an initiative to promote the realisation and maintenance of an improvement culture in primary and secondary schools,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Duisenberg and Mr Ypma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-VIII-26]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u132	A second point that I would like to highlight from that agenda concerns teacher training. I believe that we have also had a good debate on this, not only with the Minister, but also with Members of Parliament, including Mr Bishop. This will not be the last debate we have on this issue. I am very much looking forward to the further discussion of this. In my view, we are all aware that craftsmanship and the role of the teacher are crucial. However, we and the Minister note that more is needed in teacher training. More flexible ways are also needed, given both the fact that we will need more teachers in the future and the fact that we want quality to go up. We have put forward a proposal for this. The PvdA also responded to this. We've also had a lot of reactions to it. Many people have sent us an e-mail in which they write: this is taken from my heart. Others write: what you write here cannot. At least we've gotten so many responses that I think: it's really worth going on at this point, to see how far we can go with this. The Minister also made a number of notes. She mentioned examples from New York, or was it from Boston? We must take these issues into account in the debate. I look forward to further discussions on teacher training. I am particularly interested in the idea that teachers should be trained in schools. Students should be put into practice as much as possible. In addition, we must keep craftsmanship in the forefront. I look forward to the debate, which I believe we are going to continue in mid-November. I said, these are steps from A to B. That's how simple strategy is. We're in A and we want to go to B. The strategy is the road from A to B. These are a few of those steps over there. To know if you're on the right track, you need to see if your investments lead to anything. Of course, we have also talked about this funding; about the billion for teachers, about the 150 million for the 3,000 young teachers, about the money for computational education. The Chamber thinks: you give impulses, but does that lead to something? This concerns the discussion we have had on the lumpsum. The Secretary of State has promised to send a letter to the Chamber in three months' time. However, I would just like to highlight very specifically what the Chamber's wish is. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the Dutch foundation education is publicly funded on the basis of lumpsum and therefore schools are free to decide how to spend public money;]] [[Whereas the lump sum gives education a significant degree of freedom and reduces administrative burdens;]] [[Whereas additional resources have been made available in recent years for, inter alia, language and arithmetic education, young teachers and the professionalisation of teachers;]] [[noting that it is not clear whether the additional resources have actually been used for the objectives in question and the results of these additional resources;]] [[Whereas the General Court has developed a monitor to provide the Court with an insight into the extent to which educational objectives are on track;]] [[calls on the Government to develop several alternatives to or in addition to the lumpsum where public funds, in particular resources intended for a specific purpose, are given clear objectives and progress becomes understandable,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Duisenberg, Mr Rog, Mr Van Meenen and Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-VIII-27]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u133	I said, "A to B." We talked about stepping, about knowing where you are. That's what the last motion was about. All that must lead to B, the goal. The great ambitious goal is and remains the top five knowledge-based economies. The Hamer motion is often cited in this context. I wanted to report our position on our young capital. Our people must be given every opportunity in this future economy and society to develop as much as possible. Today's education is being used for tomorrow's society and the labour market. To mark that ambition, I'll file the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Netherlands is in the top five of the World Economic Forum as the most competitive economy and thus the ambition of the Hamer c.s. motion. (32123, No.10) has been reached;]] [[Whereas, however, the Netherlands has fallen on the World Economic Forum's human capital ranking;]] [[Whereas it is important for employment that we can also take full advantage of our top position as a knowledge-based economy in terms of jobs;]] [[noting that a good link between today's education and the demand of the labour market in the future is crucial for this;]] [[expresses the ambition not only to remain among the top five knowledge-based economies in the world, but also to be among the top five on the human capital ranking list;]] [[calls on the Government to add this ambition to the consultative request to the ESC on long-term agenda learning and skills;]] [[calls on the Government to ask the AWTI and the Education Council to come forward with an opinion to strengthen our human capital policy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Duisenberg, Mr Van Meenen and Mr Grashoff. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-VIII-29]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u134	Mr. Chairman. Today it became clear that the first hair cracks occur in the structure of the loan system. Of course, that's not crazy for a house built on financial quicksand. I shall table the next motion for a resolution on this matter. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the abolition of the basic grant affects students with a multi-annual master disproportionately because these students, even if they study nominally, have to borrow one to two years longer than students with a one-year master;]] [[Whereas, by abolishing the basic grant, the financial threshold for choosing a study with a multi-annual master is increased disproportionately compared to studies with a one-year master;]] [[Whereas it is also important that sufficient students, even after the basic grant has been abolished, opt for a study with a multi-annual master's programme;]] [[invites the Government to grant students in a multi-annual master's programme for all additional nominal years above the one-year master's programme an additional grant or financial allowance from the proceeds of the loan system,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Rog and Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-VIII-30]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u135	My second motion concerns Dutch language and cultural education abroad. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas since the cuts in Dutch language and cultural education (hereinafter referred to as the NTC education) abroad from 2013, these schools have become increasingly difficult to manage financially;]] [[Considering that the subsidy granted to these schools since 2014 to partially absorb the cuts will expire in 2016;]] [[Whereas, without additional funding for these schools, the quality and availability of affordable Dutch education abroad is directly at risk;]] [[calls on the Government to continue the apprenticeship grant for NTC education so that this education is maintained, and to cover this from the 141 million non-legally compulsory funds in the budget of OCW,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Rog and Mr Van Meenen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-VIII-31]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u136	I said that before I tabled the motion, but it is true.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u137	Then it just stays there. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u138	My third motion concerns SLO. I have agreed to this with the Minister. She doesn't give a shuffle. That is why I have tabled a fine motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the board of the Foundation for the Development of Learning Plan (SLO) intends to move from Enschede to Utrecht;]] [[Whereas this move would cost a lot of money and would be a sensitive blow to employment in Twente, a shrinking region;]] [[noting that this proposed move is contrary to the policy of diversification of employment previously formulated by the Cabinet;]] [[asks the government to keep SLO for Enschede and not to move to Utrecht,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Rog and Mr Siderius. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-VIII-32]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u139	I've been talking about staying. Mrs Ypma of the Labour Party did the same. We shall table the next motion for a resolution on this matter. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Netherlands is world leader with nearly 50,000 pupils per year in secondary education and that CPB research shows that the direct cost of remaining in prison is around €500 million per year and that indirect costs are even higher;]] [[noting that sitting down does not do justice to customization in education because it may mean that pupils have to repeat a whole year while, for example, they have an insufficient one;]] [[Considering that pilots with summer schools in recent years had some 85% of the participants still flowed to the next year rather than to remain seated;]] [[Whereas schools for students who remain in prison receive an additional year's funding, but do not receive additional funding for students who do not remain in prison as a result of additional efforts;]] [[Whereas schools which continue to be prevented by a summer school or other efforts should make an effort which should be rewarded;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with the VO Council and trade unions, to draw up proposals to encourage schools to stay away from sitting by providing tailor-made guidance for pupils;]] [[calls on the Government to add to the funding the savings value of pupils who do not remain in prison thanks to a summer school or other efforts, provided that the funds released are used to strengthen the quality of education in general and for greater attention to children and tailor-made education in particular;]] [[further invites the Government to inform the Chamber of these proposals by 1 February 2016,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Rog and Mr Ypma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-VIII-33]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u140	I'm coming to my final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that public policies on unemployment are increasingly focused on employment participation and sustainable employability and unemployment benefits have been reduced in almost all sectors in recent years;]] [[Whereas in education alone, the excess unemployment benefit in the Po, Vo and MBO amounts to more than EUR 100 million per year;]] [[Whereas the super-legal WW benefit is already unnecessarily heavy on the budget of schools and alras will be priceless, while the money currently paid to super-legal WW benefits in the Po, Vo and MBO can also provide 1,700 full-time teachers' jobs;]] [[Calls on the Government to urge the social partners in the Education Foundation to reduce the above-statutory WW benefit in all education sectors as soon as possible and to use the available resources for real jobs for teaching staff;]] [[also invites the Government to inform the Chamber about this before the summer of 2016,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Rog. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-VIII-34]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u141	Mr. Chairman. In my first speech I raised three issues: the child centres, the tailor-made diploma and the appropriate education. As far as children's centres are concerned, I would like to thank the Secretary of State for all his answers. My colleague, Mr Keklik Yücel, will take the initiative in the Committee on Social Affairs to come up with a splendid motion to bring this forward. The Secretary of State has indicated that this is where the lead lies. There's one point left that needs to be settled now. I'm filing a motion for that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in the country there are different initiatives for all children aged 0-18 with a continuous learning line and a rich educational offer;]] [[Whereas it is sometimes difficult to make this possible;]] [[believes that the promise academy in Rotterdam is an example for the Netherlands;]] [[calls on the Government to engage with the partners concerned in order to see how the financial gap can be closed in order to enable this initiative,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ypma and Mr Straus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-VIII-35]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u142	In addition, we would like to make more use of the strengths of students and express them in the agenda. We want to adapt the structure to the student instead of the student to the structure. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that young people can only complete secondary education with a diploma at one level of education;]] [[Whereas this does not reflect the diversity of young people's talents and the fact that their levels may vary by profession;]] [[Whereas a customized diploma allows pupils in secondary education to complete courses at different levels and to express this in the diploma;]] [[Whereas the follow-up and completion of further education courses at different levels may ease the flow of pupils and prevent them from remaining seated;]] [[By including an experimental article in the law per coming school year, the Government invites the tailor-made diploma in secondary education so that, in anticipation of agreements on the flow of students to further education, students can follow and complete courses at different levels with a tailor-made diploma in which these different levels are reflected,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in particular cases legislation and regulation is an obstacle to the design of customised solutions;]] [[Whereas the Chamber adopted a motion on 6 November 2014;]] [[calls on the Government to:]] [[the possibility already offered by the Law on Centres of Expertise to derogate from the prescribed time of education also for pupils in regular education and to prepare a legislative proposal for this;]] [[relax the provisions on funding for those cases where the school and the cooperative cannot itself provide an appropriate education offer, provided that no additional parental contribution is requested which impedes accessibility,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is unclear how school boards have spent the additional resources for jobs for new young teachers;]] [[Whereas several school boards have spent this on other educational matters other than those intended to make available the 150 million earmarked for this purpose;]] [[considers that transparency on the use of educational resources by a school board is necessary and that parents, pupils and staff should be able to take note of this;]] [[Considers that parents, pupils and staff should be able to learn through annual reports of the financial and policy choices of school management and at least the impact this has on matters such as class size per class, staff size, and hours of movement education;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that, from next year onwards, school boards should publish an annual report publicly accessible, at least on the Internet, so that everyone can take note of the financial choices made by these boards,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ypma, Mr Straus, Mr Grashoff and Mr Van Meenen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-VIII-36]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ypma, Mr Straus and Mr Grashoff. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-VIII-37]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ypma and Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-VIII-38]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u143	Mr. Chairman. I have three minutes, but in those three minutes I still have the motion that everyone knew would come; the motion on internships. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that it is too common for MBOs to break up their training due to lack of practice, without due to lack of commitment;]] [[Whereas this has a negative impact on their labour market opportunities in particular and on the quality of the Dutch labour force in general;]] [[having noted that, as early as 2006, when examining the DAL bill, the Chamber agreed that the educational institution is ultimately responsible for finding e.g. places for its participants;]] [[calls on the Government, in cooperation with the ROCs and the business community, to ensure that young people of good will do not continue to fall between shore and ship and to organise a coherent approach to this end,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Jadnansing, Mr Siderius and Mr Grashoff. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-VIII-39]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u144	Then there is the motion on school costs in the MBO, as announced by my colleague Jasper van Dijk. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that 16- and 17-year-olds are required to obtain a starting qualification;]] [[noting that school fees are charged to pupils and their parents in secondary vocational education;]] [[having noted that, as of 1 January 2015, for minima, the maximum allowance in school fees for secondary vocational education has been reduced from €690 to €116 per year;]] [[believes that access to and participation of young people in secondary vocational education should never depend on the thickness of their parents' wallets;]] [[calls on the government to consult with the MBO Council, the Foundation for Teaching Money and the MBO institutions to:]] [[to reduce and monitor the school costs of training in MBO to an absolute minimum;]] [[remove all financial barriers to access to and participation in the MBO;]] [[where necessary, establish an emergency fund to which parents of 16- and 17-year-old children of minimum age can appeal so that they can meet the remaining school costs;]] [[inform the Chamber of the results of such consultations by 1 February 2016 at the latest,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jadnansing and Mr Siderius. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-VIII-40]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u145	Then the final motion. I have one minute left, so I'm gonna save it. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Economic and Social Committee has noted that the backwardness of immigrant young people in the labour market is often linked to a choice of study with little perspective on the labour market;]] [[Whereas both the ESC and the Education Council have recommended that greater attention be paid to Career Orientation and Guidance (LOB), coaching and mentoring;]] [[whereas LOB becomes a mandatory part of the exam in the MBO, but many schools still pay little attention to it;]] [[calls on the Government to instruct the Education Inspectorate to better monitor how LOB is designed in VMBO and MBO, to include pupils' satisfaction with this guidance and to indicate whether the funds made available for LOB have actually been used for this purpose and to report annually on this in the Education Report,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Jadnansing and Mr Straus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-VIII-41]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u146	And I've got ten seconds left.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u147	Mr. Chairman. I've got one minute. I thank the rulers for answering our questions. My first motion concerns the civilian effect that we believe is under pressure. To catch that, you have to start at the front, and that's with the Cito test I love so much. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the take-off date of the central final test has shifted from spring (February) to almost the end of the school year (May);]] [[noting that the central final test is no longer a matching instrument providing an objective school advice, making the teacher's advice decisive;]] [[noting that many schools and teachers are struggling to fulfil this role adequately in relation to assertive parents, which poses the risk of over-advisation;]] [[calls on the government to shift the (deduction) date for the central final test to the middle of the school year (February) and thereby to give the test the role of objective matching instrument, in addition to the school's advice,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Beertema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-VIII-42]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u148	Then my second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Islamic College of Amsterdam did not meet the quality standards in 2010 and that the number of pupils was too low for three years in a row;]] [[noting that there are a priori serious doubts about the quality of education at this newly established Islamic school;]] [[Whereas, on the basis of an early assessment of quality standards, the financing of this Islamic school to be set up in Amsterdam may be refused;]] [[calls on the Government to provide for the statutory control of quality standards by the Education Inspectorate before the start of a new school,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Beertema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-VIII-43]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u149	Then I'll file a motion on the Platform Education2032. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas Platform Education2032 should be able to count on broad support from society and thus also from the PVV grassroots;]] [[calls on the government, the current Chair of Platform Education2032, to withdraw from the ruling that "Wilders is dangerous" (Elsevier 2012) or to request him to resign as Chairman of Platform Education2032,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Beertema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-VIII-44]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u150	Then the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is also the task of education to provide pupils with insight into the achievements and freedoms of Western civilisation;]] [[calls on the government to pay explicit attention in education to the western values, norms and traditions such as the Sinterklaas party with Black Piet and the patriotic history,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Beertema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-VIII-45]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u151	Then my final motion, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considers that it is one of the core tasks of education to teach students to think critically from our tradition of freedom of expression, gender equality, individual freedom and responsibility, reciprocity, tolerance and respect for dissidents, faith leavers and sexually different modes;]] [[noting that the statements made repeatedly by the rector of the Islamic University of Rotterdam are diametrically opposed;]] [[Considering that this has definitively lost the chances of achieving these core tasks by the IUR;]] [[calls on the Government to take steps to make it legally possible for the NVAO to withdraw the accreditation of educational institutions in such failing leadership,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Beertema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-VIII-46]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u152	Mr. Chairman. I thank the rulers. I've got so many motions I'd better get started. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the opinion of the Education Council on Article 23 and the report of the Children's Ombudsman "From compulsory education to learning law" call for greater attention to be paid to the position of teachers in education policy and law;]] [[noting that the right to education is enshrined in international conventions;]] [[noting that, as a result of the funding of educational institutions, guidance in policies and legislation is not directed towards educational seekers, but is mainly directed towards providers;]] [[Whereas this creates an increasing tension with ambitions in education policy to meet pupils' learning rights, such as appropriate education, the solution to drop pupil numbers and the pursuit of individual tailor-made teaching;]] [[calls on the Government to ask the Netherlands Centre for Education Law to carry out further research into which aspects of the design and content of the Dutch laws and regulations hinder implementation of the core elements of learning law and how an anchoring of learning law in the legislation of fundamental education is possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that schools offering education to refugee children are affected by the limited number of moments of measurement for the number of pupils;]] [[Whereas sufficient funding and guidance is necessary to continue to provide education of good quality to these children and their classmates;]] [[whereas a second measurement moment is now being set, but this is not yet sufficient to respond to the highly variable inflow and outflow;]] [[Calls on the Government, in consultation with the PO Council and the VO Council, to seek a tailor-made solution in the funding of schools which have to deal with highly changing numbers of pupils due to the influx of refugee children;]] [[calls on the Government to consider how unemployed teachers can be used to teach these children,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that recent research shows that the Dutch education system contributes to social inequality;]] [[Whereas developments and ambitions in education policy such as appropriate education, the degree of customisation, profiling and promotion of talent are limited by the framework of the current education system;]] [[calls on the government to ask the Education Council to examine how to set up our educational system in such a way that equal opportunities, influx, flow and tailor-made work become the norm in the Dutch education system,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that treasury banking is already mandatory for provinces and municipalities;]] [[Whereas treasury banking for educational institutions increases the investment potential of schools and reduces public debt;]] [[calls on the Government to come forward with proposals to require educational institutions to provide treasury banking and to inform the Court of Justice of this before the summer of 2016,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas a rapidly changing world requires continuous retraining, retraining and retraining of people;]] [[Whereas extending the study advance to people over 30 years of age can help many people to pay for additional training;]] [[calls on the Government to make the study advance available to people over 30 years of age,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas research has been carried out into the housing of green education in the Ministry of Education;]] [[points out that green education should be included in the Ministry of Education;]] [[calls on the Government to come forward with proposals to achieve this and to inform the Chamber before the summer of 2016,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to make it possible for schools with bilingual education to also take the final examination in the second language, provided that Dutch is sufficiently protected,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van Meenen, Mr Ypma, Mr Rog, Mr Grashoff and Mr Siderius.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-VIII-47]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Meenen, Rog, Siderius and Bishop. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-VIII-48]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Meenen, Ypma and Siderius. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-VIII-49]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Meenen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-VIII-50]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Meenen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-VIII-51]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Meenen and Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-VIII-52]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Meenen and Mr Duisenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-VIII-53]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u153	Mr. Chairman. I'm filing a number of motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the number of apprenticeships and therefore the funding of schools will fall in the coming years;]] [[Whereas schools face major challenges in the coming years, such as appropriate education, population reduction and education for refugees' children;]] [[Calls on the Government to prepare proposals to ensure that school education is not below the level of the 2016 OCW budget from 2017 onwards,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Klever c.s. motion calls for proposals to enable schools to provide adequate education for refugee children;]] [[Whereas adding an additional time limit on 1 April does not provide sufficient tailor-made work to schools with a relatively high increase in refugee children in a short period of time;]] [[calls on the Government to make additional proposals to provide more tailor-made education to schools in the foundational education and the MBO with a relatively high increase in refugee children,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that some 900,000 primary school pupils will have to deal with slow Internet connections at school in the coming years, especially in the outskirts;]] [[whereas the administrative agreement on primary education contains agreements on the use of digital learning resources, but many schools cannot meet the ambitions;]] [[considers it undesirable to use educational money for high-speed Internet connections;]] [[calls on the Government to:]] [[aim to connect all schools to high-speed internet by 2017;]] [[to open up the investment fund under the Government's primary education agreement to link schools with fast, future-proof, reliable and affordable internet;]] [[involve provinces, municipalities, internet providers and companies in shrinking regions in the throughbreaking project Education and ICT to achieve regional cooperation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Dik-Faber and Mr Slob. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-VIII-54]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Dik-Faber, Mr Slob and Mr Grashoff. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-VIII-55]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Dik-Faber and Mr Slob. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-VIII-56]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u154	In my last second I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his commitment to engage with parents' organisations and Each one about leading children to school with lighter limitations.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u155	Mr. Chairman. I thank the rulers. I thought it was a good debate on the substance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u156	I have four motions, which I will read soon. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas various signals, including from the Education Inspectorate and the Education Council, indicate that the education system is under pressure to flow and flow;]] [[points out that the education system should provide maximum opportunities for up- and down-streaming in order to maximise the development of talents of all children and young people;]] [[calls on the Government to develop consistent policies to ensure the flow of education, and to remove obstacles where possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that the number of so-called 'wide bridge classes', in which pupils of more than one level of education are combined in the secondary class, is falling;]] [[Whereas developments such as underbuilding efficiency, single school advice, shrinkage and efficiency have an impact on the decline in the number of broad bridge classes;]] [[Considering that the advisory bodies advise the government to maintain broad and multi-annual bridge classes due to their positive contribution to children's development opportunities;]] [[Calls on the Government to send a plan of approach to the Chamber by 1 March 2016 to encourage for-schools to maintain broad bridge classes, including positive (financial) incentives;]] [[calls on the Government to include in this plan of approach the encouragement of po-schools to continue to provide multiple school advice from the student's perspective, where appropriate,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the field of education has to do with an unpredictable and large influx of refugee children and indicates that they face financial but also practical problems;]] [[noting that primary education schools receive additional funding only for the first year and that some of the refugee children are not covered by the weight regulation, because parents have received higher education in the country of origin;]] [[considers that education deficits have not occurred after one year;]] [[calls on the Government to send a proposal to the Chamber as soon as possible that primary schools should receive additional funding for the training and reception of refugee children after the first year,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that medical students during their three-year Master's degree studies do not receive any fees for this because this is not considered an internship;]] [[Whereas societies take a full working week or more and that medical students in their master's phase are to a large extent labour-productive for health institutions;]] [[Calls on the Government to consult with the Dutch Association of Hospitals before 1 January 2016 to discuss the desirability and possibilities of granting reimbursement to medical students for part of their studies and to inform the Chamber as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grashoff, Mr Duisenberg and Mr Van Meenen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-VIII-57]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grashoff, Mr Van Meenen and Mr Ypma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-VIII-58]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grashoff, Mr Siderius, Mr Slob and Mr Rog. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-VIII-59]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grashoff, Mr Van Meenen, Mr Duisenberg and Mr Mohandis. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-VIII-60]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u157	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the rulers for the proper response and for the clear response during the interruptions. That is enlightening; thank you for that. I would like to mention a few points, including the dashboard that we mentioned. Reporting obligations already exist; one more is added. We take the statement of the Secretary of State that it will not lead to a heavier burden and accountability for notification, but are still not entirely satisfied. We are still afraid of another duplication of accountability. We will continue to monitor developments and come back to them in the next phase. The Secretary of State has agreed to send a letter on the weight regulation before Christmas. That seems to me to be sufficient at the moment. We still have concerns about the route More room for new schools. We are very concerned about the shadowiness that is already assuming at the moment. That's just a fact. We are also very afraid of the consequences, of the threat it poses to existing schools. We certainly have the impression that the risks in this respect are seriously underestimated. This could cause serious damage to existing schools. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas system changes should be based as far as possible on scientific research;]] [[Whereas the Education Council indicates that the change in school choice motivations has not translated into fundamental criticism of the provision of services and that the dual system seems to have moved well with the development in school choice motives;]] [[Considering that the most recent, representative study on the linking of supply and demand in education is based on data from 2000 and that this study lacks the needs and satisfaction of parents when choosing schools and the extent to which existing school offerings meet parents' needs;]] [[calls on the Government to carry out scientific research into the needs and satisfaction of parents when choosing schools and the extent to which the existing range of schools meets parents' needs,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bishop, Mr Van Meenen and Mr Rog. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-VIII-61]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u158	Mr. Chairman. I too begin by thanking the directors for answering the many questions. I would particularly like to thank the Minister for her positive comments on the usefulness and necessity of adult education. As far as 50PLUS is concerned, the budget will be slightly different from next year and there will be a separate policy article on adult education, regardless of the term "vocational education." That's why I'm filing the next motion. I'm hoping for the Minister's support. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, in the current budget, adult education is classified under the same heading as vocational education;]] [[noting the growing importance of adult education;]] [[calls on the Government to include a separate policy article for adult education in the budget from 2017 onwards,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-VIII-62]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u159	50PLUS would like the target group of the action plan Tel to be expanded with Language with the group of people aged 65 and over. Given life expectancy, it is very strange that this plan only targets people aged 16 to 65. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Government has drawn up the Tele Action Plan along with Language to combat low literacy;]] [[Whereas this programme focuses on low literacy among 16- to 65-year-olds;]] [[Whereas, given the increasing age of AOW and the digitalisation of society, low literacy among people over 65 requires a structural approach;]] [[calls on the government, the target group of the Action Plan Tel to extend Language to include 65-plussers, and to inform the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-VIII-63]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u160	Finally, we believe it is important that as many people as possible can follow all debates as simple and as cheap as possible, even if they do not have the Internet. I shall table the next motion for a resolution on this matter. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, in a democracy, it is very important that everyone has access to the same parliamentary information, including the debates held in the House of Representatives;]] [[noting that the NPO Politiek channel can only be seen via the internet by people with a paid digital subscription;]] [[believes that streaming debates over the Internet alone is not enough;]] [[calls on the government to add the NPO Political theme channel as the 31st channel to the standard channel package,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-VIII-64]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u161	Mr. Chairman. I'm filing four motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the quality of the indoor environment in many schools is not yet in order;]] [[Whereas the quality of the indoor environment in schools is related to the performance and health of pupils;]] [[calls on the Government to come forward with an action plan to improve the internal environment in schools,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that research shows that differences in performance between pupils from different social groups are lost;]] [[Whereas school costs may play a role in the drop-out of pupils from vulnerable environments;]] [[calls on the Government to launch a study on the accessibility of education to different groups in society, including the role of the education system and the costs of education;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the importance of emerging economies outside the euro area is increasing for Dutch entrepreneurs and the Dutch economy;]] [[Whereas foreign language teaching can facilitate economic relations between the Netherlands and emerging economies;]] [[calls on the Government to allow education in more languages than is currently the case in primary and secondary education, provided that the quality of education is guaranteed,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that 60% of pupils who claim to be discriminated against in education indicate that this has been done by a teacher;]] [[Whereas there is a need for equal opportunities and equal treatment for all pupils in education;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that acts of discrimination and racism by teachers are included in the teacher register,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-VIII-65]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-VIII-66]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-VIII-67]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-VIII-68]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u162	Mr. Chairman. I thank the rulers for answering the questions. In the first term and in the brief inter-ruption debate with the Minister, I pointed out the problem of anti-Semitism in schools and the lack of clarity about the costs of the asylum crisis for education, particularly language lessons. I shall make two motions on these points. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that asylum seekers receive Dutch lessons with an asylum authorisation;]] [[Whereas it is now also being examined whether it is possible to give language lessons to applicants for asylum who have a high chance of obtaining an asylum permit;]] [[Whereas, in advance, expectations should never be raised with regard to residence in the Netherlands;]] [[calls on the Government not to pay for language lessons for this category of asylum seekers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that anti-Semitic teaching materials are in use in Dutch education;]] [[noting that some of the history teachers in the Randstad hardly dare to discuss the Holocaust;]] [[noting that in Almere there was an intern in front of the class who called ISIS a Jewish conspiracy;]] [[Whereas these matters undermine student citizenship development and make the fight against anti-Semitism more difficult;]] [[calls on the government to make every effort to combat anti-Semitism in education,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Klaveren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-VIII-69]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Klaveren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-VIII-70]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u163	No, Mr President, I do not have a question for Mr Van Klaveren. I heard his motion. I just want to correct an omission on my part. I understand that I can do that now, so that we do not have to reopen the sitting at another time. I made a mistake in the operative part of my motion in part No. 40. There's got to be something in the operative part. It now reads: "calls on the government to consult with the MBO Council, Stichting Leergeld and MBO institutions." This should be: "calls on the government to consult with the MBO Council, Stichting Leergeld, MBO institutions and the JOB." So "the JOB" should be added to the operative part of that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u164	Thank you. That's sufficiently noted, and we'll take it with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u165	Mr. Chairman. It's a huge pile of motions. I hope that the Registry will be able to keep an eye on whether the Secretary of State and I will soon have given a ruling on all the motions. I am going through it quickly, because a lot of motions relate to debates that we have had together today. I won't repeat them all. I shall begin with the Jasper van Dijk motion in part No. 23 on segregation in education and black and white schools. I don't recommend that motion. The Chamber has recently received a response from the Minister for Social Affairs and me to the SCP report and the WRR report. We are very much concerned about integration, also on the basis of ethnicity. Schools can also be involved. In the Jasper van Dijk motion in part No. 24 the Government is invited to examine how the tasks of the Supervisory Board can be transferred to the Supervisory Board. I also advise against this motion, because it is not based on anything that a supervisory board could never properly control a board of directors in advance. They have a separate role in the governance model. Soon we will be discussing the law on the strengthening of administrative power in education, so the further discussion can be conducted in this context. In the Duisenberg c.s. motion in piece No. 27 The government is invited to develop alternatives to or in addition to the lumpsum, with clear objectives for public resources and a clear understanding of progress. In my contribution in the first term, I said that I am in favour of identifying the different ways of financing, from lumpsum to specific grants, based on the following elements: administrative burdens, implementation consequences and the degree of clarity. I shall therefore leave this motion to the House. In the Duisenberg c.s. motion in piece No. 29 the government is asked to ask the AWTI and the Education Council to come forward with an opinion on the human capital agenda. I'll leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. It's a good addition, but I do notice the following. The motion refers to an application for an opinion to the ESC. However, this is not a request for advice. We have asked the ESC to consider the skills of the future in various ways during the process. So we still need to think about what a good time it is for the AWTI and the Education Council to join, so that we do not have a mess of advice in the future. We will inform the Chamber about this later. In the Rog/Jasper van Dijk motion in part No. 30 The government is asked to compensate students in a multi-annual master's programme for all additional nominal years above the one-year master's programme. I advise against this motion. We discussed this very extensively in Parliament's consideration of the study advance. This has been preceded by an SEO investigation. These students have a strong inner drive and are less guided by finance. In short, there is no reason to change that. In the Rog/Sideerius motion in part No. 32 the government is requested to retain the SLO for Enschede. I don't recommend that motion. I have already answered several written questions. I have always stressed that housing and location is a matter for the administration of the institution concerned. The board has indicated that it wants to go to Utrecht, just to get more synergy. I see no reason to change that now. In the motion-Rog in part No. 34 the government is invited to urge the social partners in the Education Foundation to reduce the above-statutory WW benefit. That is, in fact, policy support. I shall therefore leave this motion to the House. We attach great importance to modernising working conditions. We have taken important steps in this area in the National Education Agreement, but I recognise that further steps are possible. In the motion Ypma/Van Dijk on piece No. 38 The government is invited to ensure that school boards publish an annual report accessible to the public on the Internet as from next year. That too is support for policy. That leaves the House to decide on the motion. We have been working closely with interbranch organisations in recent times to ensure the publication of annual reports by institutions. The VSNU and the colleges have already posted their annual reports on their website since 2014. The MBO Council monitors the disclosure and po and vo have entered into agreements in the Good Governance Code. I am committed to ensuring that by means of codes and not by law. Once again, I shall leave the motion's judgment to point No. 38 to the Room. In the Jadnanancing c.s. motion in piece No. 39 is requested to make arrangements with roc's and aoc's to prevent students from ending up in professional practice between shore and ship. I see this motion as a policy support. A lot's been going on. That is also what we exchanged today. There are legal provisions. There's a learning job offensive and we have practice learning. Now it is important to ensure that this leads to good results.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u166	This motion is seen as supporting policy and therefore the judgment is left to the Chamber. Mr Duisenberg has a question on the previous motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u167	I'll come back to the motion on part No. 38. Last year a motion was tabled on the publication of annual reports signed by my colleague, Mr Straus, among others. That motion was held because it would be included in codes of conduct. What's the status of that? Is this included or is it still to be done? That's useful for us to know.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u168	In the past year, all industry organisations have included such a provision in their code of conduct. This has made it a task of all branches of industry to do so. I only note that one sector is further away from the other, including its compliance. We attach great importance to the fact that the sectors themselves take responsibility for compliance. I gave the example of the VSNU, which is already further along with that. In 2014 it was checked that all the affiliated institutions also posted it on their website. This is being done in other sectors.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u169	What does the request add to what is already contained in the Code of Conduct?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u170	I note that the motion supports policy. It all has to be done. On more motions that I see as policy support, I leave the verdict to the Chamber. As regards the motion on item No. Forty on school fees, I'll leave the judge to the Chamber. Mr Jadnansing and Mr Siderius are asking for them really to be kept to a minimum. I'm gonna work on it. They call for all financial obstacles to be removed. That's a bridge too far for me. I have indicated that there is also a responsibility for parents and students. You may reasonably ask something, but all unreasonable financial demands or unnecessary demands are a different story. I can consult the Chamber on these before 1 February 2016, including on the consultation with the JOB.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u171	How does the Minister assess the coverage of this motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u172	I read in the motion that it is mainly about appointments with the schools themselves. They need to be more transparent and see how costs can be reduced. They need to see whether a special case emergency solution can be found within their own budget, for example a payment scheme. An emergency fund is needed to ensure that one institution does not incur much more burdens than the other. This will have to be settled in consultation with the institutions. I don't consider the motion a call to pull the wallet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u173	The conclusion is that there is no cover proposal in case money is needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u174	If I come to the conclusion that money is needed, I will report to you on where that will be paid for. It is logical that institutions have a role in this. You actually want them to take care of it all as much as possible. Also on the motion on item No. Forty-one Members of the House, Mr Jadnansing and Mr Straus, I shall pass judgment on to the Chamber. In the spring of 2016 we want to carry out an evaluation on career guidance in vao and mbo. I will include the motions from the motion. The motion in part No. Mr Bertema asked for Western values, standards, traditions such as the Sinterklaas feast with black Piet and patriotic history. Today, I have stated in detail that personal education includes participation in society, that standards include values and traditions, that history is part of it and that cultural heritage is part of it. We have already said that the Sinterklaas party is really a question of society that people can think about differently and shape in different ways. I therefore advise against this motion. Furthermore, Mr Bosma, Mr Bertema's colleague, asked me yesterday to write another letter on this subject. I will explain that in that too. The motion in part No. 46 by Mr Beertema is about the Islamic University of Rotterdam and asks for steps to be taken to withdraw the accreditation. I'd advise against it. I can't do that through the NVAO. However, I am already amending the law to ensure that this is possible on the basis of the social responsibility it bears. In the motion in part No. 49 by Mr Van Meenen, the government is asked to have the Education Council examine how we can organise the system in such a way as to enable equal opportunities, influx, flow and tailor-made work. I very much recognize the call to shape upflow, flow and customization. However, I think it is too much to ask for a separate opinion on this, particularly in view of Mr Duisenberg's motion, in my opinion, Mr Van Meenen's name is also included under the heading of the system, and thus also in relation to the components inflow and flow. The Education Council has already issued a number of opinions on the flow in general. I've already pointed that out. We have the OECD review. If there is one, we are going to look at how we can follow up on this in good relations with the ESC and with other organisations. The motion in part No. 50 by Mr Van Meenen on treasury banking, I would advise against, because all educational institutions already have the possibility of treasury banking. There is an interdepartmental policy investigation into treasury banking. It focuses on the risk of OCW. If Mr Van Meenen so wishes, I can inform the Chamber of the results of the ibo about the advantages and disadvantages of compulsory treasury banking. However, I do not see any advantages in that for the time being, so I would advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u175	Surely that possibility of treasury banking only exists in the sense that you can deposit money with the government? It's not like every school has the opportunity to borrow from the government, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u176	Institutions currently have the option of voluntary treasury banking. From the point of view of an educational institution, the obligation to do so does not lead to any change. It doesn't increase investment opportunities. I don't see any added value, so I'm not recommending the motion. The motion in part No. 51 of Mr Van Meenen asked the government to make the study advance available to people over 30 years of age. I'd advise against it. We have had a wide-ranging debate on this. At the top of the list of wishes is flexibilisation and not a study loan. In addition, it costs 50 million and lacks coverage in the motion. The motion in part No. 52 by Mr Van Meenen and Mrs Dik-Faber on green education, I recommend. I have already pointed out in detail that the cabinet has no intention of institutional changes, because this is more upset than is desirable, and that we are now working well with EZ on the design of green education within the financial frameworks, which are similar to those at OCW. The motion in part No. 54 member Dik-Faber requests the government to prepare proposals to exclude school education from the level of the 2016 OCW budget from 2017 onwards. I advise against this, because the cost of education is always based on the regular system and on student numbers. It seems undesirable to me to suddenly depart from that. In the spring of 2016, the cabinet is already preparing the budget, so the motion is also practically not feasible. So I'm gonna dissuade her. The judgment on the motion in part No. 57, by Mr Grashoff, Mr Duisenberg and Mr Van Meenen, I leave it to the Chamber, because I also consider it to support policy. It deals with ensuring the flow of education and the removal of barriers where necessary. I went into this very detail this morning, and I said at that time that I think that is desirable. In the motion in part No. 60, by Mr Grashoff and others, the government is asked to talk to the Dutch Association of Hospitals to see if there is still a special remuneration for the co-workers. I have already promised that I am prepared to talk to the hospitals to see if there are any possibilities for special compensation, just as Mr Grashoff put it this morning. Such a fee is not in the context of the multi-annual masters, but in the context of the fact that co-workers also do work for the hospital and so the hospital gets something in return. I'll coordinate that meeting with the VWS colleague. I do not think I can inform the Chamber about this before 1 January, but it is feasible to do so in the spring of 2016. I'll leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u177	The Minister will leave the motion to the Chamber. Then why don't we make it April 1st in the motion? Then she knocks again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u178	Let's make that happen for now. I hope I'll get it then. I am dependent on others, but I am aiming for 1 April.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u179	I'll do it differently, Mr. Chairman. I'm withdrawing the motion. I think this is a clear commitment, in accordance with the motion. So I'm assuming we have a clear deal. With the date of April 1st, I can get out of my way. I thank the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u180	See, that helps. Now it's not 51 motions anymore, it's 50.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u181	Since the Grashoff motion c.s. (, No ) has been withdrawn, has ceased to be the subject of a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u182	In the motion in part No. 62 of Mr Krol, the government is invited to include a separate policy article for adult education in the budget. I would advise against this motion, because that would only increase the complexity of the budget. The budget is divided by institutions and sectors, not by objectives. The importance is reflected in resources, not in separate budget articles. Many of these elements are also mainly part of municipal policy and cooperation with municipalities. The motion in part No. I also advise 63 of Mr Krol, because the Tel programme with Language is already open to everyone, including 65-plussers, in that alignment with municipalities, with libraries, with language settings and with roc's providing language courses for everyone. That is why the motion is superfluous. The motion in part No. Mr Kuzu (S). - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Kuzu on his excellent report. I do not recommend this motion, because I find this motion to be a lesser variant of the other motions that have been tabled on accessibility, influx and influx. I don't think the motion is very clear. So I'm gonna dissuade her.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u183	I have a procedural question, Mr. Chairman. Mr Krol's motion for a resolution 63 is dissuaded because it is already happening, but I believe that Mrs Ypma's motion is left to the discretion of the Chamber, even though what is being asked is already happening. I don't think that's consistent.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u184	Mrs Schouten has a point there, so I can also say on Mr Krol's motion that she supports policy. There is, however, a false assumption in this motion, namely that it is not now the case. That is why it is something other than genuine policy support. But let me say that I'll leave the verdict on that motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u185	Mr Krol's motion for a resolution on item No. 63 to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u186	Yeah, but let me add this. The problem is that in the operative part it is asked to expand Tel with Language. I just can't expand it, because it's already under current policy. This is a different matter than to stress once again in a motion how important the current policy is. Let me put it differently and more precisely. If Mr Krol wishes to amend his motion to that effect, I leave it to the Chamber to decide.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u187	Mr Beertema was the first to report to the interrupting microphone, but this is a motion from Mr Krol, so perhaps Mr Beertema would agree that I should first give the floor to Mr Krol. I see him nodding in agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u188	I would be happy to amend the motion so that the Minister can live with it. I'm looking for a different formulation for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u189	All right, we're going to have another modified motion for the motion in part No. 63.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u190	Now, of course, I'm going to try it again with my motion on part No. 45, which we were so incredibly in agreement on. The Minister said the same to me, so let us call her'support policy'. I'll tell you what, I'm not gonna change anything about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u191	We're a little less in agreement on that than you might think. The motion calls for explicit attention to Western standards and values in education and to the Sinterklaas party. Of course we pay attention to values and standards, to traditions, to Dutch history and to national heritage, but the whole discussion about sintering class is really a social discussion. It doesn't fit in with the core targets. I hope that sinterklaas can be a party for everyone again this year. I don't think it's gonna help if we start laying down the rules for that. I therefore stick to my judgment: dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u192	Then I'd like to delete the phrase "like the Sinterklaas party with Black Piet."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u193	Of course, we must give insight into the achievements and freedoms of Western society, but also a little wider than that. In education, we also have a responsibility to do so internationally. In view of the discussion that took place earlier today, I do not think it is appropriate to give the impression that we should highlight this in particular. I'm gonna stick with it. Dissuade it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u194	I would also like to make a point of order. Mrs Schouten has raised something that is very relevant. We're the Education Committee. Then you're talking about example behavior. I would like to point out to the Minister that, as she keeps saying 'judge chamber' about unnecessary motions, she is in favour of us discussing 51 motions here next time, but 102. I would like to point this out, because I think this is relevant. Honestly, I'm sorry about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u195	Then perhaps the cabinet and the committee should debate this. I'm afraid of 51 motions, but I don't want to push the Chamber into the curtains. If one has the need to emphasise elements and to add a date to them, that often happens in the motions that I say are policy support, then my remark is: Court judgment. With regard to motions which contain nothing new, I note that "judge chamber" does not mean that you should vote in favour. I would like to discuss this with the committee in order to be stricter. However, I do not want to be accused afterwards that we leave so little to the Court's opinion, as I have seen once again when I say clearly that motions are superfluous, because support for policy, and therefore should not be put to the vote. "Judgment Chamber" still means a very wise consideration of the Chamber. I think you would be delighted if you prevented 50 motions from being voted on, which have been assessed positively. I would have stayed with the motion in part no. 69. It calls on the government not to pay for language lessons for this category of asylum seekers. That is undesirable, also in view of the letter sent earlier this week by the Secretary of State and me. The same applies to the motion in part No. 70 by Mr Van Klaveren. That motion is about citizenship development and anti-Semitism. We have already had the debate on this in detail this morning.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u196	So that would dissuade both motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u197	I dissuade both motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u198	I'll come back to the final motion. We have indeed spoken briefly about this, but that does not alter the fact that there are still anti-Semitic teaching tools at the moment. I have already pointed this out today. In Almere, the situation arose that an intern spoke anti-Western nonsense and expressed anti-Semitic reproaches in the classroom.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u199	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u200	My question is whether it is not very wise to stress once again the need to combat anti-Semitism in education. This has been happening on paper for years, but in practice we see this kind of crazy coming back.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u201	I don't tend to respond to incidents. Mr Van Klaveren has previously asked both the Secretary of State and me questions about teaching materials. We have replied to that. This morning, I told you in detail what we are doing to shape good citizenship education and to invest in it, not only in the form of money, but also in the form of activities to combat radicalisation. I find it undesirable to make these statements on the basis of incidents mentioned in a motion. So I'm gonna keep dissuading the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u202	Of course, it's not about incidents. These examples show a trend. It has been so for years that about 20% of the teachers in the Randstad are anxious to talk about the Holocaust. We're now seeing an intern, for crying out loud, a lily, who's anti-Semitic.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u203	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u204	My point is that they are not incidents, but that there is a structural problem. The means which the Minister mentions to combat anti-Semitism are apparently insufficient. That's why I tabled this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u205	We held a wide-ranging debate there this morning, also in the context of Mrs Jadnanancing's question on citizenship education. I have looked very closely at what we are doing, both in the context of improving citizenship education and in the context of combating radicalisation in schools. Radicalisation can also occur in other places. We are trying to create a balanced school programme for the whole of social education. Knowledge of the Holocaust is a component that definitely belongs in it. We have regular consultations with stakeholders on this. We must continue along this path, also in the context of previous commitments and the answer to Mr Van Klaver's questions by the Secretary of State and me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u206	I see that Mr Van Dijk has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u207	I don't have a question. I have an announcement. I want my motion on piece number one. Twenty-four, hold on. That is the motion in which I ask the government to consider whether the supervisory boards can be lifted. For your administration, I'll let you know.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u208	It's been noted.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u209	That helps to narrow down the amount of motions. Mr Van Dijk can really stick to this for the next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u210	At the request of Mr Jasper van Dijk, I propose his motion (34300-VIII, No. 24). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u211	I'm gonna take a look at the minister. I do not have the amendments before me, but are there any amendments on which you should judge? I understand that the Minister has not yet received the amendments. I therefore propose to give the floor to the Secretary of State and to deal with the amendments at the end of the government's second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u212	Mr. Chairman. In the motion in part No. 19 The government is asked to prevent the Ambelt from closing. I'm deceiving that motion. The partnership is about whether or not locations remain open. It is not up to the Empire to intervene on that point. In the motion in part No. 20 The government is invited to guarantee the budget of €4,000 per severely limited pupil. As I said in the first period and as we have also explained in writing, the resources for the scheme are sufficient. Research shows that it should be around €2,000. €4,000 was a maximum amount and not a target amount. I therefore advise against this motion. The motion-Siderius/Van Meenen in part No. 21 is about the exclusion of the tyltyl schools from the unbundling of the vso. I would ask the authors to hold this motion because the motion is moving ahead of something that I am not at all sure is going to happen. I will be able to show the Chamber in the very near future, namely in December in the eighth progress report, the contours of exactly how the unbundling is going to take place. I will deal specifically with the consequences for tyltyl schools.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u213	The co-author of the motion has flown, but I think it would be good to hold the motion, without consultation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u214	At the request of Mrs Siderius, I propose her motion (34300-VIII, No. 21). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u215	Okay. In December we will discuss it further. I find the motion by Mr Siderius in part No. 22, which is about the practice rooms, going too far. I have already indicated in the written reply that regular monitoring is being carried out from SZW and that re-inspection is being carried out if necessary. Any sanction must be proportionate. The closure of locations is very far-reaching. The inspection must handle this carefully. That's why I advise against this motion. I find the Jasper van Dijk c.s. motion. in piece No. 25 complicated. They're asking us to arrange something for special talents. I assume this is about O.V. cards. I can see that this is not just about DAMU training, but it is also wider. It's about quite a lot of numbers. I also find the motion complicated for the following reason. In the case of reimbursement of transport, there is primarily a task for municipalities. That's on the expense side. In addition, I find the motion complicated because of the coverage. The proposers ask me to get that money from the teacher training grants, which have been agreed in the sectoral agreements. Underneath that deal is my signature. It is linked to the master's ambition in the po and vo. If we take money out of there, I don't know what the consequences are. There's no room in the jar. I can imagine that it is also said from the po and vo: if this arrangement is to be phased out or not, we need to talk again about the master's ambition. That does not seem to me to be the route we should be taking. Maybe this is what I'd like to suggest. If this motion is held, I could talk to the dome responsible for DAMU education to see how big the problem is. We can discuss whether we should settle something for all students or whether it is a kind of hardness clause for a single case. That also determines the size of the financial issue. In about three or four months, I'll be back in the room with that. It can then examine whether this has led to an adequate solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u216	I'm looking at the proposers. They do not have to respond, but in that case I ask for an opinion from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u217	Then I'll advise against the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u218	It's a very strong motion. The Secretary of State may be in a different way. He's making an offer, but that's gonna take three, four months. This subject is not new and has been playing for months. There have been strong statements made by colleagues. The promise I can make is at most that I can consider the Secretary of State's offer, but so far the motion is simply like a house.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u219	The motion in part No. 25 is therefore not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u220	In the Duisenberg/Ypma motion to item No. 26 The government is invited to engage with the PO Council and the VO Council and to call upon them to embrace the initiative of LeerKracht. I am very enthusiastic about this, so I think this motion is in line with the policy. I can leave the judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u221	I'm withdrawing this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u222	Since the Duisenberg/Ypma motion (No ) has been withdrawn, has ceased to be the subject of a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u223	Then there is the Rog/Van Meenen motion on part No. 31, which asks to continue the financing of Dutch education abroad. We've been discussing this for a long time. That was also part of the whole operation to reduce the number of grants. I really don't want to go back on that. Moreover, the coverage is very inadequate. Then submit an amendment and specify where you want to get it. It can't be like this. May I ask the authors for the Rog/Ypma motion in part No. Thirty-three about staying on? In the very short term, I believe this year, there will be an ibo to the Chamber, with a reaction from the cabinet, which is about effective learning routes, so also about what you can do to prevent sitting. If, in that response, I also address the issue that is being raised here, or you can come up with smart financing arrangements, then I would like to go along with that. However, what is being asked here cannot be done. In the base is the thought of the student benefit that the money follows the student. When a student is no longer in education, he cannot get funding. I am sure that my colleague in the Finance Committee will not go along with what is being presented here. I must therefore discourage the motion, but if the proposers hold it, because they find it interesting to include the discussion on that investigation, we may have something that we can get out of our way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u224	Without sharing the Secretary of State's analysis that this cannot be done, I think it wise to hold this motion now, pending the outcome of that report.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u225	At the request of Mr Rog, I propose his motion (34300-VIII, No. 33). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u226	Then I come to the Ypma/Straus motion on part No. 35, about the Promise Academy. I read this motion as a request to all concerned to consider how it can be financed. I do not think that we should again draw the wallet, because there is already a lot of extra money going to the Pact on South. The cabinet has proposed to the SZW budget to reserve extra money for municipal childcare. If the question is: how do we knit the ends together, then I can do very well with that. Then I'll leave the judgment to the Chamber. The Ypma c.s. motion. in piece No. 36 I find complicated, because I do not know exactly what is being asked. If I have to read the motion in such a way that it should be possible for a note to appear on the diploma or on the list of numbers if you have made a course at a higher level, which I am very much in favour of, then I have to say that this is already happening. Then this motion is unnecessary and I would advise against it. If Mrs Ypma says that she wants to go a little further, that should not only be on the diploma or that you have done something at a higher level, but that this should, so to speak, also give an extra right to access to further education, then I think that this motion goes far too far, because we are talking about the civil impact of diplomas. We still have to set up a tree about that. I would be happy to comment on this in the letter that the Chamber will soon receive from us, but I would also like to come to the conclusion that it does not really touch on the basis of our system.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u227	The Secretary of State says he doesn't fully understand the motion, so that's why he explained it. It is explicitly stated in the request to the government: in anticipation of agreements on transit to further education. I understand the point of transit and the civil effect. The Secretary of State can read it in such a way that we would like an intermediate step, so that you can now be on your diploma that you have completed certain courses at a higher level, so that children are rewarded. We are getting the signal from education that this cannot be done now and that it is very much wanted. This is an intermediate step that helps with all those conversations that are going on about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u228	I am going to repeat it for the umpteenth time. If you've done a course at a higher level, it's mentioned on the grade list at your diploma.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u229	Finalizing, Mrs. Ypma.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u230	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's listed on your grade list, but it's not on your diploma.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u231	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u232	That is exactly the point we are making here. That's different, and that's what the schools and the kids are asking for. That is why this also has broad support in the Chamber, so I say with a wink to the Secretary of State. I'd say embrace this. I don't think we're very far apart. I understand that there is still a lot of discussion to be done about the flow to further education, but let us now take this as a first step.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u233	Mrs. Ypma wants it not to be on one piece of paper, but on the other piece of paper. Also for this world-shattering breakthrough, I cannot do that with an experimental article, as Mrs Ypma asks in her motion. This really calls for a fundamental change in the law. After all, the law describes exactly what can and must stand on a diploma. That's not gonna happen in six months. I would like to go ahead with that, but not within the time limit Mrs Ypma mentions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u234	That would dissuade the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u235	Yes. I can't carry out the motion, so I have to dissuade her.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u236	Yeah, okay. Mrs. Ypma, interruptions...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u237	Unless the author of this motion is satisfied with my commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u238	In conclusion, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Ypma. However, interruptions take place in two, so be very brief, Mrs Ypma.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u239	I understand that, Mr. Chairman, but I must also be able to respond to what the Secretary of State says.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u240	Yes, but interruptions go in two, so very briefly, rounding off.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u241	The Secretary of State can interpret it that way. It doesn't necessarily have to be in an experimental article. We would like the Secretary of State to get to work on this legislative change. That's how he can interpret it. Then we are completely satisfied.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u242	Then I'll admit it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u243	Thank you. In doing so, you will leave this motion to the Chamber. Mrs Siderius, you have a question on the motion for a resolution on item No. 36?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u244	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I would like to comment on this motion. I may not have so much a question to the Secretary of State as I do to the proposers. This is where we talk all the time about education at a higher level. However, the motion states "different levels." This may also mean that you take a HAVO course, but do certain courses at vmbo level. I don't think that's the point. Either this should be explicitly mentioned in the motion, or it may not be such a convenient motion after all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u245	If you do things at vmbo level and at Havo level, you get a vmbo degree stating that you have followed a number of subjects at havo level.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u246	Yeah, but that's not what this motion says. That is a bit of a problem for my group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u247	Okay. That's up to you. I made a commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u248	In reply to Mrs Ypma's contribution, the Secretary of State has just expressed his opinion on this motion. Then we go to the motion in part No. 37
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u249	I'll deal with the motion on part number one. 37. This motion is requested...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u250	Chairman! I'd like to hear a clear verdict. That's your job.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u251	The Secretary of State gave that after the interruption of this motion. I cannot repeat that, because that would mean repeating the words in order to give the right judgment. Please read back the Acts on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u252	The Secretary of State has promised something other than what is requested in the motion. Is that right? Does the Secretary of State advise the motion in part No. So 36 like it is now?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u253	I said: if I read the motion and have to take it literally, then I cannot execute it. Then I said: I can do it if I can follow the line of getting on with it and we are going to go for a legislative amendment, although that is not settled in six months and it is not an experimental article et cetera. However, that is something other than what is stated in the motion. After that, I told Mrs Ypma that, if I may interpret the motion in this way, I will be working on it. That was a promise.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u254	So if I vote in favour of this motion, I shall vote in favour of something other than what the Secretary of State has promised. That is the actual situation. It's important to my judgment that I know that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u255	Look, this can be done in a number of ways. I'm making a commitment. The petitioner may withdraw the motion. I'll tell you what lines I can live by with the motion. This may again lead to an amendment of the motion. However, the motion, as it is now, cannot be carried out. In that case, I'd advise her.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u256	Then I'll amend the motion so it says it's a bill. It didn't say "within six months," so that doesn't have to be changed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u257	I'm going to move on to the motion in part No. 37. It draws the government's attention to an opportunity now offered by the centres of expertise and asks them to relax the provisions on funding. I promised the Chamber a letter about education at another location. That letter's coming soon. I suspect that what is being asked in this motion is not contrary to that. That is why I can leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. The motion in part No. Forty-two I'd like to dissuade. The law on the taking of the final test at a later date has just been passed. I do not think we should go back on that now. Now to the motion for a resolution on item No. 1 of the motion for a resolution (Doc. 43 by Mr Beertema to ensure that the Education Inspectorate is allowed to check quality standards before a new school is started. I am concerned about this motion, because I totally disagree with the preamble to this motion, which is so fundamental that I do not recommend the motion in this form. With what Mr Beertema asks in the operative part, I can live very well. I'll tell him I'll work on that in the bill for more room for new schools. If we are to make it more possible for new schools to start, if we are to give more room for this, we must, on the other hand, have a better look at the expected quality at the front. I think that is the essence of what Mr Beertema is asking for in his motion. But I find the recital, which states, a priori, that there are serious doubts about the quality of education at newly established Islamic schools, complicated. That's why I advise against this motion. Also the motion in part No. Forty-four, I'd like to dissuade you. I do not believe that that statement is an obstacle to the functioning of the President. Also the motion in part No. Forty-seven, I'd like to dissuade you. I would like research to be carried out by all kinds of scientific agencies if we have the impression that this will solve a problem. In this motion I see no reason to do so. So I'm deceiving the motion. The motion in part No. 48 calls for a tailor-made solution in the funding of schools with refugee children and to see if we can involve unemployed teachers. If necessary, customization is already provided, in individual situations. I believe that schools themselves are responsible for recruiting good teachers. If they attract an unemployed teacher, that's excellent. That is very nice, because that also reduces the costs of WW. I do not think, however, that this is a task for the government. Then I come to the motion on part No. 53 in which it is asked to make it possible to take final examinations in the second language, for example in the tto. In this form, I advise against the motion, because I believe that it refers to the central final examination. School exams can already be taken in English. So those are the school's own exams. That gives tto-schools the room to respond to the target audience. For a number of reasons, I do not think it is appropriate to take the central exams in English. The group is too small for good standards. There will then inevitably be differences between exams, because you are always dealing with translation issues. It's also relatively expensive. The Cito will have to take extra exams. I don't see any cover in this motion either, which is why I'm not advising her. Then I come to the motion on part No. 55 which calls on the government to make additional proposals to offer more tailor-made solutions due to the relatively large increase in the number of refugee children. I advise against this motion. There's customization already. In primary education, schools receive one year of additional funding for newcomers and asylum seekers. Then we'll go to regular funding. Then the weight control can also count. The motion in part No. 56 is about fast internet in schools. It calls for the investment fund to be used and for provinces, municipalities and Internet providers to be involved. Actually, I'm pretty good with this motion. That is why I leave the judgment to the Chamber. In the motion in part No. 58 calls for financial incentives for broad bridge classes and a plan of action. I advise against this motion. I really think that we do not know enough about the motivations of schools to organise their bridge classes differently. The Education Inspectorate is also very cautious in explaining this trend. So I think it is premature to come up with a plan of action. The motion refers to the incorporation of financial incentives. In my view, we are in the process of working towards a simplification of funding in secondary education. This would make the funding a bit more complicated. That, too, is a reason to discourage the motion. In the motion in part No. 59, by Mr Grashoff and his associates, are asked to provide additional funding for refugee children after the first year of primary education. I'm deceiving that motion. I have already said something about the adequacy of that funding. Moreover, I do not see any cover proposal. If you want to continue with this funding, it's just gonna cost extra money, on top of the regular funding. No additional resources are available for this at the moment. In the motion in part No. 61 calls for scientific research to be carried out on the needs and satisfaction of parents. I also advise against this motion. The reason for choosing a new system for starting schools is not just based on the supposed dissatisfaction of parents with current schools. It is about updating, modernising the concept of direction, regardless of fundamental criticism of the provision of services. The Education Council has already said a few things about this, namely that the social changes make it very logical that we should make the concept of direction, which is now very much defined by, in particular, philosophical reading: religious lines, more letting go and opening up. I don't see any need to re-examine it. Then I come to the motion on part No. 64. I advise against this motion. The media budget is still on the agenda on 16 November, but we have just adopted a law based on a standard package of 31 networks, with the freedom to complete them themselves. In the motion in part No. Mr Kuzu asked for an action plan to improve the internal environment in schools. I advise against this motion. Money has just been added to the lumpsum of schools to invest more in sustainability. The schools are their own move. I see no reason to add resources to that now. In the Kuzu motion in part No. 67 the government is invited to enable teaching in more languages than is currently the case in primary and secondary education. I advise against this motion. It may be that the Schnabel Committee makes recommendations, but we will not be able to discuss them until after January. I do not see why we should now add more languages besides English, German and French. In my view, that is sufficient at the moment. In his motion in part No. 68 Mr Kuzu asked the government to ensure that acts of discrimination and racism by teachers were included in the teacher register. I advise against this motion. In the case of discrimination or racism, this should not be recorded in the teacher register, but should simply be reported to the police.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u258	This has put an end to the debate on the motions. There are four further amendments. First of all, I give the Minister the opportunity to respond to the amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u259	Mr. Chairman. I will respond to two amendments and the Secretary of State will respond to the other two. With Mr Slob/Dik-Faber's amendment No. The aim is to reduce the amount of vocational education by 12 million; this amount should then be transferred to EZ for green education. I strongly advise against this amendment. The Chamber did this last year. This has led to less money being made available in ordinary secondary vocational education, while, on the basis of the results of studies we have sent to the Chamber, we have found that the funding of green education was generous compared to regular secondary vocational education. As far as I am concerned, this cannot be repeated. I have indicated that the Secretary of State for EZ is in talks with the agricultural training centres (aocs) in order to find a good solution within the budgetary frameworks currently in force, including for EZ. They are similar to the funding for similar secondary vocational training. With their amendment to item No. Mrs Lucas and Mrs Jadnansing are seeking a reprioritisation: funds now reserved for the Beta Technic Platform must be spent on a Makerfaire. I leave the opinion on this amendment to the House. Both members have already mentioned the importance of making education. I have also emphasised this, especially in relation to what is happening in libraries, and I know the example from Friesland cultural institutions and roc's, but also in primary and secondary education. I hope I can understand the amendment in such a way that the authors consider the means of technology and the Pact of Technique no less important. I see Mrs Lucas confirming this non-verbal. I'm glad. I leave the opinion on this amendment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u260	Mr. Chairman. The Siderius amendment to point No. I have to advise 15, if only because of the cover proposal. The national regulation of the payment of salaries is completely contrary to the autonomy of individual school boards. We have just agreed on the budget for excellence in education in the sector agreements. The Siderius amendment to point No. I'll have to advise 16, too. This amendment calls for the creation of a fund of 60 million for pupils sitting at home. There is money available for any child who signs up at a school for whom a good, appropriate place must then be found. I'd like to recommend everyone to sign up for a school. This also applies to children who may not be able to attend school permanently for five days a week. Then a process begins, together with the parents, to see how an appropriate place can be organized. Then we'll just receive a grant for these kids. There's no problem there. Mrs. Siderius wants something else. She doesn't want these kids joining a school. She wants a separate fund. That's what she gets from the lumpsum, so that's just a straight cut on all the other kids in education. I'd say that's very wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u261	We have taken as our starting point a limited number of pupils sitting at home, namely 10,000. These students are not registered at a school. So this money is still somewhere in the Ministry, I think on a shelf or something. The moment the child does sign up to a school, the school gets the funding. These kids aren't registered, so the money's just there. There is no solution for these children. For them, you need to take multiple measures. That might be a part one-on-one education, a part home education and perhaps a part just to school. We want a fund to be set up so that these children can still get that funding.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u262	It's really a fiction that we have money on the shelf waiting for these kids. We receive funding from the Ministry of Finance for every student who is registered and enrolled at a school. That's what it starts with. There will be customization for these children very often: a package of measures to ensure that a special place can be arranged for these children. Only then money comes from Finance to OCW. And then the finances are no longer the problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u263	Then the money is not on a shelf at the Ministry of State, but it is on a shelf in the Ministry of Finance. That money has to be there. We all think that every child in the Netherlands deserves education. That's what we reserve money for. That money for these 10,000 That is why we want that fund. I find it very strange that the Secretary of State says that that money is not present at his ministry. That is an easy argument to say: we leave these children at home.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u264	Thank you, your point is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u265	The money just becomes available as soon as parents and children sign up at a school. Therefore, once again the call: sign up! That's what it all starts with.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u266	Mr. Chairman. I would like to say a few words about the motion on item No. 25 on the DAMU programmes. I'm sure the Secretary of State will find that interesting. I've just had a little talk with the co-sponsors. We are prepared to hold the motion provided that the Secretary of State is prepared to discuss a good solution before the end of the year, i.e. before the end of the year.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u267	I can promise you that immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u268	Then I'll hold the motion in part no. 25 on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u269	At the request of Mr Jasper van Dijk, I propose his motion (34300-VIII, No. 25). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u270	On the basis of the argument based on the motion in part No. 53 I want to get my name out of there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u271	The Van Meenen/Duisenberg motion (34300-VIII, nr. 53) has been amended to the effect that it has now been signed by Mr Van Meenen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported. She gets no, was no. 53 ().
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u272	I would like to thank both directors for their reply. The vote on the motions will take place next week. The vote on the amendments and the budget itself will take place in December. I shall suspend the sitting until 7.30 p.m. Then we will continue with the debate on the budget for I and M.
