ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u1	I agree with the Chamber that there are no more than four interruptions in the term of the cabinet per political group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u2	Mr. Chairman. Fraud in health care is unacceptable. Not only do you and I think so, but all the field parties that are honest and do their work in integrity every day. They suffer when a hint of fraud hangs over their sector. Where there is fraud, we must act vigorously. I would very much like to repeat the wise words of Mrs Dik-Faber. She indicated that it's about values, standards and morals. That's where it starts and that's where it ends. Whatever rules, whatever laws we make, they can never replace standards, values and morals. It starts and ends with the question: what do we think is normal here? What do we think is acceptable? How do we deal with our work? Why are we standing here doing that work? Who do we do this work for, anyway? The focus on fraud has contributed enormously to the discussion in the sector. How do we handle it? We see that the field itself with us, but also apart from all of us, has started actions to start the conversation about declaring, about what we normally think. All kinds of actions have resulted from this. That is a huge profit, because it is necessary to go back to the question of what you actually do the work and what standards and values apply in your hospital or practice in any sector. We must also be careful not to throw everything into a pile. The changes in care are great. They were necessary and that is why we have speeded it up. The changes are also large for the field to process. Whether it's the introduction of incentive payment and DOT in hospitals, the introduction of the generalistic basic ggz or the reform of long-term care, it all leads to many changes for the people who do the work. The associated changes in registration and declaration processes require a lot of them and that also lead to unintentional errors. We therefore invest a lot together with providers, health insurance companies and enforcement partners in dealing with errors and fraud. We usually do this with the look ahead by looking where prevention, control and enforcement can be improved. Where necessary, we look back, as in dealing with the accountability and accounting of medical-specialist care. I will deal with this later. Mrs Dijkstra asked me what I think of the NZa's report. The NZa indicated that it found 800 million in healthcare irregularities in 2012. So that includes the AWBZ. Excluding the AWBZ, it would amount to 450 million euros. I would have preferred to have said that the NZa had searched and checked very hard and that she had not found any fraud in the care. We would all like that, because then the money goes to the right place. The NZa cannot indicate exactly which irregularities concern fraud. That has everything to do with our privacy laws. The NZa is simply not authorized to look into medical records to determine the rate of fraud. That's not proportional. She can't. That will always be rejected. In that sense, for such a general investigation, the NZa simply doesn't have the space. We have established this space with each other very consciously. That's why that's so hard to do. Nevertheless, I think it is important that we continue with each other on this path, that we keep looking at what is unjustified, what is likely to be the size and what are the next steps that we can take. That is why we have those eight sectors that are being examined each time throughout the cycle of prevention, control and enforcement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u3	The Minister says it's very difficult. That's what the NZa says. My question, however, was not so much what it produced, but was mainly about not being able to determine the size of the care fraud, although it has been requested to investigate it. Well, that's a little tricky. Was it clear from the outset to the Minister that this was not possible, as has now been shown? What are the follow-up steps?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u4	I had already indicated in a debate with the Chamber that fraud is illegal and that no one is going to come forward spontaneously. It is very difficult to get a real picture of that. That there are all kinds of difficulties in the process, we knew in advance. Mrs Dijkstra has been able to read this in the report of the NZa. The follow-up step is a plan, a programmatic approach to fraud and false declarations. I announced that in the spring. We have defined sectors and, by sector, we will look at the possibilities for errors and fraud and how we can deal with them properly per section. That's where we'll make a plan. So we are no longer talking about "the" care, but also about the Health Insurance Act and the hospitals. Again, I announced this in the third progress report in spring. In my opinion, that is a step forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u5	Clear. I have indeed read about these eight steps and sectors, but what I am likely to find difficult, as well as the Minister, is that fraudsters do not come forward. So the question is how to really find out about this fraud and what else is possible to get a closer look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u6	That's very difficult. Mrs Klever said it's 7%. That's what it is elsewhere, so it is here. If that were the case, it would be quite policy-resistant. It doesn't matter, because it's always 7%. That's way too easy for me. That is why we want to look more closely. It's hard to see what was done by accident and on purpose for your own gain. That is why we have set up a programme based on prevention, control and enforcement. To this end, we have designed a package of measures. We start the cycle, then we don't have to have a huge policy change every time we have a debate, but we take it one step further because we've learned. That is, in my opinion, the method.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u7	Two years ago we were here too, and then the Minister had no idea of the extent of the fraud. At that time, I submitted a number of reports examining the Dutch situation, for example the European Healthcare Fraud and Corruption Network. I have only said it once again, because the Minister says every time I say it is 7%. The reports show very clearly that fraud occurs in any care establishment, from a minimum of 3% to a maximum of 15%. On average, that's 7%. There are other reports.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u8	Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u9	I mention the report of the University of Twente, the SAS report and the report of PriceWaterhouseCoopers. I find it so disappointing that after two years the Minister still says he has no idea the extent of the fraud. Shouldn't we have a tooth?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u10	The characteristic of fraud is that it is illegal. The NZa has more powers than all those people who have written the reports to which Mrs Klever refers. There's a lot of wet fingering in there. I have also seen these reports and I dare to enter into a small debate on the strength of their support. I thought it was too weak, because it's obviously the better guesswork. We want to lay the foundations for this. In consultation with the Chamber, we have chosen the NZa, because it still has the most powers. However, the NZa has also indicated that it has strong restrictions on this. This was an attempt to give reasonable insight into what is going wrong, whether it is intentional or not. On the basis of what is going wrong, this is the starting point for what we are talking about here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u11	Those reports all turn out to be pretty much the same. If the Minister now says "I don't believe those reports," let her look at what her colleague the Secretary of State has done. He just had physical checks done, just house calls, just had everything checked out. What did you get out of that? Rara? 7%. That is exactly the percentage that emerges from all these reports. My question to the Minister is: why would that be less in the other sectors than in the pgb sector? Because where you don't check, you open the door wide to fraud, and that's exactly what's going on here, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u12	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u13	Healthcare insurers don't check. They have no incentive to control and that's why we put the NZa on it. The health insurance companies don't...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u14	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u15	Why would it be less in the other sectors than in the pgb?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u16	You can indeed write a report that can be placed next to the other, because it is indeed apples compared to pears. These are totally different systems. What I find so completely pointless is that we gamble and assume a percentage. Whatever else you can do with that is completely unclear to me. We asked the NZa to make a good analysis, not only of the status quo, but also of legislation and regulation, how to prevent it and how to do it better. I have indicated in the progress report that I am currently looking at how we can stimulate health insurers even more to focus on the fight against fraud. That's how all kinds of things come out. Following such a finding, a specific measure can be taken. In this way, we must work together to ensure that the premium money is well spent. That's the route we're on. There is little point in throwing at each other all kinds of percentages that we can't do anything about. When it comes to physical fraud checks, I'll be right back. They are also carried out, but that is done by the insurer. He's at a hospital watching what happens.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u17	Is the investigation of the NZa the investigation that we are actually expecting? That is a very relevant question put by Mrs Dijksma van D66. The NZa report states that the figures we have received in the tables, of those eight sectors, all come from the research of another, from the FDEC. He did that analysis, except for the ggz. The NZa itself made an analysis of this. Has the NZa actually done the research well enough if it has actually only carried out the further analysis on the ggz and not on all the other sectors of care?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u18	When I order the NZa, she often spends parts of it. If she didn't, we'd have to hire a lot more people at the NZa. Such studies often require highly specialised people who are not used elsewhere. So it's very common that the NZa doesn't do everything by itself. Of course, you hope that maximum specified data comes from an investigation. They didn't come out of here, and I'm sorry about that myself. I have, of course, looked at a way in which they can be more specific. That brings me to a point that Mrs Leijten herself raised in her speech. Do you have to cancel medical confidentiality to do this kind of investigation? That's something you could make a huge step with. If you're gonna do an investigation and lift medical confidentiality, you could really look into the files. However, my conclusion is that this would be a step too far. I'm not suggesting that. We must try to deal specifically with the things that have been identified with a programme that I come with in the spring. The things that we find too unclear must be examined in greater detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u19	I have tabled two amendments to the bill that the Minister has submitted to the Chamber to maintain medical professional secrecy as it currently stands, rather than to remove it for fraud detection purposes. I assume that the Minister has embraced these amendments with her words just now. I'm going back to that investigation of the Fraud Detection Expertise Centre and the further investigation that the NZa has done into the ggz. Of course, it makes sense for the NZa to have done that further investigation into the ggz. At the same time, it's really weird that she didn't have those numbers. After all, the NZa is tracking down our fraud. Can the NZa also make the further analysis of these other care sectors? This will bring much more to the fraud report that we have actually asked for.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u20	The bill concerns suspicions in an individual case. Here, in case there are no individual suspicions, people are asked to look into your file. That's really something else than we want to settle in the bill. That goes a step further. I am, of course, in favour of the first, because otherwise I would not propose it to the Chamber. Furthermore, I do not find it strange that the NZa hires outsiders as an investigation within a certain period of time and needs to be specifically zoomed in on questions from the Minister. That's how the government works all the time. We sometimes hire externals when we get questions from the Chamber. I don't feel much like letting the NZa do that research again. The NZa must, of course, have a very clear picture of the sectors. She does, also because she's doing this extra research. On this basis and on the basis of what has come out of this investigation, it must take further steps. Of course, that makes sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u21	However, the question is whether you are also prepared to carry out a further analysis.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u22	No. On the basis of this investigation, the NZa indicated that it would carry out specific analyses if appropriate in its supervisory mission. It does not, however, do so in general in order to give a general picture. My policy is prevention, control and enforcement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u23	On the same point, Mrs Bruins Slot also wanted to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u24	It is striking that Mrs Leijten started her speech by saying that the Dutch Health Authority has only done that further analysis for mental health care and not for medical-specialist care. In the report of the Fraud Detection Expertise Centre the advice is given to examine both ggz and medical-specialist care. So the question is why this further analysis was done for mental health care, but not for medical-specialist care.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u25	She's done that analysis by now. The Chamber knows that too; this has already been reported to the Chamber. Or is that gonna happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u26	You will return to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u27	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u28	That's extraordinary, isn't it? We have received a table from the Minister containing various information on the possible extent of the fraud. If you look at the report, the fraud in the ggz is around 5 million. For medical-specialist care, it is above 200 million. Then there is additional research which suddenly shows that the ggz and the medical-specialist care have almost the same level of fraud. However, this further analysis is not carried out in the medical-specialist care sector. Why was double standards applied? It is so remarkable, because we always hear the Minister in the Chamber say that fraud is the greatest among the ggz. If the report then states on the basis of arguments that both need to be looked further, the Dutch Healthcare Authority will only look further at the ggz. I find that striking.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u29	That medical-specialist deepening has indeed been done, namely through the annual accounts. Never before in history has that been done so thoroughly. That is much more and much more precise than the NZa will ever be able to do. All hospitals have gone through an intensive route. That wasn't noncommittal. An accountant then checked to see if it was true. Then it went to the NZa again. The NZa checked to see if there were things in there that aren't kosher and that are more than a mistake and therefore fraud. Such a journey has never been done before and so precisely in the history of care. I hear Mrs. Bruins Slot is saying something, but I can't hear her.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u30	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u31	That's an absolute fact. If you go to that cycle, you start with prevention, because preventing mistakes and preventing fraud is a priority. I see it as my job to ensure fraud-proof laws and regulations. Therefore, in any new legislation, major changes to funding systems are subject to prior checks for fraud sensitivity. Moreover, from 1 January onwards, legislation and regulations must be subject to national scrutiny on the basis of a directive issued by the Ministry of Security and Justice. The fraud test developed by the Ministry of VWS has been a model for this directive of V and J. Of course, clear laws and regulations are also crucial. In recent months, the NZa has invested a lot of time and energy in answering questions from hospitals and accountants about the application of the rules in special situations. In this respect too, therefore, the annual accounts process has really yielded something. Field parties themselves promote correct declaration through initiatives such as the pilot for a registration guide of the Order of Medical Specialists and the dissemination of educational material by, among others, the NVZ. In the area of checks, health insurers are called upon. Over the last few years, they have stepped up considerably and invested heavily in improving their physical and formal controls and tackling fraud control. A good example of this is the programme "Sincerely care, pure account," which they have already started. In the third progress report, I indicated that I would examine how the incentive of health insurance companies could be further strengthened so that they could be even more involved in this task. As indicated by Mr Rutte, 2.3 billion in incorrect declarations has been blocked by the efforts made by health insurers in this area. Enforcement is the final part of tackling errors and fraud. By enforcement, I mean the supervision and administrative enforcement by the NZa, the detection by the SZW and the FIOD and the criminal prosecution by the Public Prosecutor's Office. Important steps taken in this area are the strengthening of capacity at the NZa, at the SZW Inspection and at the State Attorney's Office. This amounts to a structural amount of 10 million from 2015. Positioning the detection function at the Inspection SZW is a temporary solution. We have not yet chosen a definitive model. Cooperation with other supervisors and investigation services is very important. In particular, cooperation with the FIOD is essential because of its knowledge in the field of taxation, and the possible coherence between care fraud and, for example, bankruptcy or tax fraud. The recommendations contained in the NPA survey on the extent of irregularities relate to the above mentioned themes. In the third progress report I explained how I deal with it. For the sake of clarity, I would like to refer to that. In any case, we will continue to invest in knowledge about the risks of errors, fraud and how to deal with them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u32	I had another question about the previous point. In the meantime I have three additional questions, but first I go back to the previous point. The Minister has rightly examined how we can stimulate health insurers to do more to combat fraud, errors or unlawful declarations. What conclusion did the Minister draw from that investigation?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u33	We're doing that investigation now. In the progress report, I announced that we are doing that investigation. What comes out of it are probably suggestions to me how I can improve that. Of course, I don't know what's coming out of it, because the investigation is now under way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u34	I am asking because I understand that there has already been a conclusion and that further research is now being carried out. I wonder what's going on in the meantime.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u35	No, the NZa said that there could be more incentives. You should see how to stimulate insurers more to detect fraud and errors. As a result, we have wondered what the possibilities are; how could you do that and what exactly could you do? The investigation is now under way. I'll get back to that in the Chamber when I have that investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u36	Then I will refer to my question from my own term. Will you come up with a concrete target that you are going to impose on health insurers? After all, you have to have a goal. Next, health insurers must have a toolbox, but also a concrete goal to which they must work. Otherwise, it will remain noncommittal. I hope we can see that in the outcome of the investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u37	No, because we're working all over the chain to narrow it down. So if you make a huge commitment to prevention and better legislation that leads to fewer mistakes or less opportunity to commit fraud, you can, of course, set targets, but the objective is to bring it down as much as possible. So we're just trying to adjust it down. With the whole cycle of prevention, control and enforcement, we want less fraud and fewer mistakes to be made. So we all have to make the most of that. However, if the NZa finds that the incentives to the insurer can be better picked up, then it is natural that we should examine how we could do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u38	We can just read in the NZa's research that not all health insurance companies deliver data and not all types of care are achieved by all health insurance companies. Then a new research is absolutely beautiful, but that is now mainly new research to do nothing. That is what Mrs Bouwmeester is looking for, of course. That's what the whole room is looking for. We have been saying for two years that there is care fraud and that everything has to be done, but where there is a link, with the health insurance companies, we see no progress. Is the Minister prepared to punish and fine health insurers or to impose other measures if they do not deliver their data?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u39	The health insurance companies have not all provided data to their own industry organisation, the ZN. That's not up to me. An insurer is a member of ZN or not, it's up to him. That's what he pays a fee for. What he delivers to ZN is his own business. But health insurance companies all have to deliver data to the NZa. They all do. We'll take care of that. That's what the NZa's about. He won't accept it if he doesn't. All health insurance companies do, of course, provide information to the NZa. I'm getting signals that the detection of errors and fraud has intensified considerably. This should be reflected in the next progress report. I'll get back to you on that. When I speak to individual insurers and get feedback, I hear that there is a strong intensification. We will see this in the next progress report. I was asked if I am prepared to take action. That's me. That's why I'm doing research. If you're not prepared to take action, then you shouldn't investigate. So I'm doing research. How can we enlarge that? If there are any suggestions for good measures, I will take them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u40	The NZa simply notes under point 5 that a number of health insurance companies are underperforming. Pending a new investigation, those health insurers are still allowed to do so. I find it unacceptable. We've been talking about this for two years. Two years! And then we read in a report that we received from the Minister at the end of December that some health insurance companies perform below the standards. Then I expect something different from a minister to say: I have sounds that it is intensified and I am doing research into what is possible. This is a long-suffering attitude. Is the Minister prepared to take action now?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u41	The NZa found that insurers could do more. The NZa appealed to the insurers. In my contacts I see that they intensify. I don't know if that's enough. As I said, it will be evident from the cycle. In the next report, I'll see what it's done. In addition, I say that it is not enough for me for the NZa insurers to address that. I also want to see if I can take action. Before I take random measures, I need to know if they're gonna help and if they're gonna be effective. I would therefore like to look at what measures are appropriate and what they would yield. I can take random measures, but that cycle must be as follows. You do research, there's a finding, then I want to know what I can do about it, and I'm being advised about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u42	Mrs Leijten's third question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u43	I'll make him very brief. Is the Minister prepared to disclose at least which health insurers are now underperforming according to the NZa? It would be the least we know.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u44	In the next report I will come back to how insurers now perform according to the deficiency of the NZa. We agreed that I would give the Chamber progress reports, because she would like to be informed about what is happening. I would like to say to Mrs Leijten that we are reporting on this in the next progress report so that the Chamber can assess what has happened in the meantime. This is a cycle. I have a report, things come out, we take actions and then there's another report. We're in between reports now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u45	This minister is now building research on research, while the Dutch Healthcare Authority has given a clear advice. The NZa first concludes that insurers can and must improve their control and fraud detection. In addition, she has also given very concrete advice in her report, for example to ensure that risk settlement is adjusted so that health insurance companies finally start tracking down and reporting fraud. The Minister states that she will first examine whether measures are needed. There are concrete measures in the report. What's the Minister gonna do with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u46	I've sent the Chamber the risk settlement reports. Mrs Bruins Slot knows that it is very difficult to 'just adjust the risk balance'. That's incredibly technical. In the cycle that says the NZa says that insurers need to improve, two things happen. Firstly, the NZa appeals to insurers and the insurers will then have to make improvements. The NZa is the supervisor and it is her job to take action if things are not going well. Secondly, I have said that there are a number of things that have been said for. But I would like to know what concrete measures I can do to actually improve it. That will be in the next report. That's the cycle we're in. Fraud also requires us to form a consistent policy, in which we roll things out step by step. It doesn't really help if we start doing things randomly because it's forceful. I'm not gonna do that. I'll do it the way we agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u47	The Dutch Healthcare Authority strongly concludes that the approach to fraud for health insurers is not rewarding and therefore they are not yet making full progress. The proposal made by the Dutch Healthcare Authority is extremely concrete. When does the Minister expect that she will have worked out that specific suggestion? She now refers to others who have to do investigations. However, she can take this up herself. She can change this herself. In her organisation, she has the capacity and the skills for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u48	The NZa has indicated to me that there is not enough going on and that the incentives can be better. So I didn't just ask anyone, but I asked the same NZa to give me concrete measures that I can take and to tell me how to take them. It's way too general in the report. I can say that I am adjusting the risk balance, but Mrs Bruins Slot herself knows what a complex and long-term journey these are. We must then look at how and how and how to adapt them. That's the trajectory we're on right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u49	The minister said that the health insurance companies did not all submit their data on how to deal with fraud to Zorgverzekerings Nederland. They would have done that to the NZa. I read, however, that the NZa has extrapolated what Health Insurance companies have provided to the Netherlands, because not all health insurance companies had come up with their data. I wonder why the NZa should extrapolate if she did have all the data.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u50	I can't force the insurers to deliver to ZN. That's a private organization. For this research, the NZa used this database, which allowed her to extrapolate. However, health insurers must deliver their data to the NZa themselves. After all, the NZa is the supervisor. It supervises what the health insurance companies deliver to her. The NZa used a ZN study for this study. It's possible. The NZa had its reasons. In principle, however, health insurers should not deliver it to ZN.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u51	I understand that, and I can very well justify it. I was just wondering why the NZa needs an investigation of ZN and it has to extrapolate if she herself gets that data from the health insurance companies. After all, you'll have more insight into what's really going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u52	I did not do the research myself, so I should ask them to do so, but I could imagine that they wanted to use data contained in the ZN study which they did find interesting for further use. After all, the NZa is provided with a set of data. The details on the subject that the NZa needs for a general picture, at my request, may not be so much from her own set of data from individual health insurance companies. If there is a set of ZN that contains those details, the NZa can extrapolate and use that data, instead of asking out that data again. That seems to me to be the most obvious explanation, but well, I did not do that investigation myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u53	I've put forward a whole bunch of reports to the Minister, which she's all wiped out of the table. It wasn't good enough and the minister's gonna do her own research. Now the NZa comes up with an investigation in which it based itself on data from another. That data takes over the NZa without a hitch. The Minister then hides behind all these reports and says that not enough is known. Can you believe this? The Minister said that the fight against fraud is a priority for me. The king even mentioned it in his speech to the throne as a priority of the cabinet, and all the minister does is hide behind reports that are not good and investigate that still need to be done. Are you sure this is a priority?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u54	Fight against fraud is never over. Even after the next progress report, things will come up again that we say: we think that is actually a weak spot; we need to work on it further, we are zooming in on it and we are making measures for that. It's not a package you set in motion on Monday and it's finished on Friday. Fight against fraud must always remain a priority. It will be for me and I fear that my successor and his successor will also have to take it as a priority. It's not like you can't do research based on good data from others. We have also said in this Chamber: shall we look at administrative burdens? If every organization has to ask an insurer again for every investigation because we just want to know something else, then at some point the insurer will spend more time providing research data to such a supervisor than he himself can drive after fraud. I do not think it is surprising that the NZa has said at some point: for certain research questions I can use and extrapolate data that have already been provided rather than ask it out again myself. In fact, I asked the supervisors myself: be a little reluctant in what you ask from all those hospitals and health insurance companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u55	It's all about reports and investigations. When will the Minister say to the health insurance companies: you must carry out checks; control, control, control. That's what the health insurance companies are for, and that's what doesn't happen! This is evident from the NZa report, which is shown by the fact that the Minister has not yet managed to raise only a fraction of the estimated fraud, and it is apparent from the Minister's attitude. The health insurance companies need to move! They only do that if they have a target, if they can achieve something with it. They're not getting anything now, because it's only costing them money.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u56	I'm really throwing this far from me. In the history of medical-specialist care, there has never been so much control done as in the past year. A lot of people have been hired to do that. It has never been so precise whether the accounts are accurate, whether the declarations are correct and if not, what is wrong and what is that about? There has never been such an intensive process as we have done with each other over the past year. What do you mean, no priority? Maximum priority! It is true that the world is not fixable and that we cannot eliminate fraud at the push of a button. In fact, because we have now checked so closely, we have all been given information that offers us opportunities for improvement and allows us to draw up a plan for each sector that I will come back to in Parliament. I report you regularly in accordance with an appointment. If there are results from a study that point in a direction that can be better, then I'm gonna sit on top of it. We've never put together as many people on the accuracy of the accounts as in the past year, really never. I'd like to invite you to a hospital and ask how many people have been on it. You're gonna be shocked.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u57	If that were the case, the care premium would have gone down. But what do we see? The care premium has gone up, its own risk has gone up. Billions of euros are being cheated in healthcare and the minister is not getting those billions back. Instead, the cost to citizens is only going up.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u58	That may be in your election folder, but let's face it. This year's premium is as high as the 2011 premium. Isn't that true? I would say that is true: this year's premium is the same as the 2011 premium, when expensive oncology medicines have been added and many expensive treatments have been added on the basis of expensive technology. We have more elderly and more chronically ill, but the premium has remained the same as 2011. The care sector is doing everything it can to provide more care, and for the first time, care remains below the estimates. Care works very hard to improve performance. That's not going well everywhere, but I wouldn't want to put the whole healthcare sector in one suspect angle. We are working very hard to make health care better, and where it is not going well, we must intervene. The route that this cabinet has used has been a huge journey for the whole sector. Everyone has suffered over the past year from what we have asked them to do. That is why I trust that we can significantly reduce fraud and incorrect declarations.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u59	I have already said in my speech that I think it is a good package of measures; steps are being taken. At the same time, I read in the NZa report that the Minister thinks that health insurers should move a step faster. The Minister says: I ask for further research to see what exactly we need to do to achieve good effects. I think that is positive, but the question is: what happens in the meantime? Could we, for example, see in the NZa's supervisory priorities that it is already on top of the health insurance companies? I ask this because everyone actually finds that health insurers need to do more while we are waiting for a report. That is unsatisfactory. Hence my question as to what is being done in the meantime and what role the NZa can and will play in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u60	The investigation's already under way. In the meantime, the NZa has been on top of it, including the health insurance companies. Then you will see that the health insurance companies that were previously judged weak will have been updated. That is important, because we cannot have health insurers on this subject being weak. In the next progress report, the Court receives a report on this. At the same time, we have allocated an additional 10 million from 2015 to strengthen this on all sides of all parties. It's just a continuous cycle. We've done a lot to strengthen it, but we're not there yet. I fear that we will never get there completely, but we will continue to invest in improvement every time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u61	These are positive signals. When will we get the next progress report in which we can see exactly how which health insurance provider has been helped?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u62	It will come in the spring in accordance with the agreement. I've already promised, and they're gonna make it. In the spring I will also come up with a programme plan for the sectors. I will keep the Chamber informed of the state of play on this matter every year. I'm having a little trouble setting targets. Like I said, we're trying to avoid as much as we can. This often happens, but people are often more convenient than rules, systems and control. That's why morale is so important. I believe that health insurers should deal with all the irregularities they encounter. The NZa oversees this. We see that health insurers have invested a lot in recent years in improving their physical and formal controls, and in tackling fraud control. In the autumn of 2013 they started with the program Sensitive care, pure account. In response to Mr Rutte, I say that signals and results of checks and fraud investigations are shared between the various health insurance companies, so that irregularities can emerge more quickly. When you put everything next to each other, you see the patterns he was talking about. Healthcare insurers monitor their methods of fraud control using a self-assessment. Knowledge in the field of physical control and fraud control is exchanged through working groups. New initiatives have also been taken. Partly as a result of the observation that health insurers need to do more, they themselves have picked up the glove to set new things in motion. I call it jointly and thematicly carrying out physical checks and fraud investigations and exploring a joint investigation unit. Then I come to the development of the new health note. It was set in motion in the summer of this year. When you open a dbc, it often takes a year to close, and now that we have shortened it at least a few months before it is closed. So the first notes are now coming to patients' homes. That note contains more information, such as diagnosis, care activities and dbc care products, in understandable language, so that a patient can understand the note. Patients can view the note when it is closed and declared by the provider to the insurer. Further steps are being taken. Together with health insurers and healthcare providers, a communication pathway on cost awareness is launched. The aim is to better inform citizens about financial aspects of care. This can be done through the mining environment of the health insurance companies, information material from healthcare providers, the website dezorgnota.nl and via the state government. I am also talking to the parties about systematically giving more insight into the costs prior to treatment, preferably as detailed as possible. The site opendisdata.nl of DBC-Maintenance is a first step, but it is very technical and difficult to understand. Parties also examine how they can give their insured and patients more insight into the costs prior to treatment. At my request, the NZa investigates the product structure of the emergency services and the outpatient clinic, because it is precisely with this concern that the question arises as to how much the risk is addressed. For the E.R., of course, you get an average note. People who come for a little thing startle from that average note. So we're looking at how we can split up those notes and make smaller bills. Asked if we shouldn't put the D.A.'s office up front. Now we have set it up in such a way that there is a maximum effect of every euro we invest in the fight against fraud. You must continue to invest in prevention and do the detection in such a way that you achieve maximum results. If you're gonna put the D.A.'s office in place instead of at the back of the front, the D.A.'s office will have to be hugely expanded in order to actually handle it. The question is whether this will ultimately give you more results. We don't think so. We believe that criminal law is one of the links in the fight against care fraud. Criminal matters are complex and they take time and money. That is why criminal law is targeted where this is most effective. It is used as an optimum remedium and not as an ultimatum remedium. In the end, it is an optimal result. We have a joint meeting, the CSO Care. This will take place under the direction of the Ministry. There there is coordination on interventions between stakeholders and partners on the basis of the agreements in the here known Protocol standard compliance care sector. So I think the form we have chosen is a good form. We did say it should be more intensive. So we've made extra money available, including for the D.A.'s office, to do more business. However, I would like to leave the order as it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u63	I don't understand that order. What we have just learned in the debate on St. Antony Hospital is that there is no order. At the moment when there is a case in which criminal offences may be involved, the prosecution is watching and deciding which way is to be followed. So I don't understand the whole story about ultimum remedium. I suggested this because the NZa is a great delaying factor. In 2012 it was announced that she was going to watch the VUmc. It was only three months ago that the VUmc file was transferred to the Public Prosecutor's Office. Does the Minister think that this is a deterrent effect?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u64	I think we should set up the chain in such a way that we achieve maximum results. Sometimes this can be through administrative enforcement through the NZa and by imposing a heavy fine. Sometimes it can be because you're on the criminal road. How this is done shall be determined in the joint consultations on the basis of the Protocol. The D.A.'s office decides which cases it picks up and which cases it doesn't pick up and leaves to the NZa. I think this is a good way to work. The NZa can also decide for itself. However, we have said that it should not be the NZa that does not take things up because it has no capacity, even though it would have liked to pick them up. That's why we want to expand the capacity of the state's attorney's office. The sooner this kind of thing gets decided, the better I like it. Sometimes, however, you need research to do that, and that will take some time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u65	In 2013, the Dutch Healthcare Authority had time for two investigations, namely about the St. Antonius Hospital and the VUmc. She then asked those hospitals to do their own research. As a result, she went to see what she was going to do. At St. Anthony's Hospital, it resulted in a fine, in which the criminal regime was not exploited at all. There perhaps people should have been held personally liable. The VUmc file was only transferred to the D.A.'s office three months ago. Does the Minister really think that this is a deterrent? And does the Minister see that we should not only speed up processes here, but also harden the battle?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u66	I think so, and that is why we are investing extra money. Both the NZa, as well as the Inspection SZW, and the D.A. are strengthened, so that more cases can be picked up and work faster. If there's something going on, there's got to be some bite. It shouldn't just be barking. That's why we want to set it up to the maximum. I have cleared 10 million for this, but I say to the Chamber: if it turns out that things are not being picked up purely because there is a capacity problem, then I think there should be more money. If so much investment is being made, look how many people are joining ISZW. You also have to make sure that people are properly trained and able to do their job well. Then you can only judge if a next step is needed. The ISZW has been extensively expanded. There's more money going to the D.A.'s office and more money going to the NZa. On the next step we will see if it is sufficient and if not, then there will be money. It must act as a deterrent. Action must be taken if it is to be out of line. It is simply not acceptable if premium money is not spent as we want it to be spent with each other. About St. Anthony's Hospital has been asked if the fine has been paid. It was, by the way, the highest fine ever paid; that was what the NZa did last year. The fine is paid in full. It has also been asked whether the repayment obligation to insurers has been completed. Questioning learns that the majority has been reimbursed by St. Antony Hospital and there are still conversations about the rest. I have already replied to the question as to how health insurance companies could not provide anything about controls. Additional research has been carried out on the ggz. That could also be the case for medical-specialist care. That investigation has been carried out. We have had an accounting process. The final piece of it was the NZa. This intensive process has given him a very clear picture of medical-specialist care. It was then asked whether there should be no obligation to report. I've been talking about morality. If you see and find that there's being cheated, you're gonna have to do that to the person you're supposed to be cheating on. It is initially the driver to whom you must report that a colleague is unfair or does not operate fairly. I gave the KNMG a grant last year to set up an anonymous medical reporter to report suspicions of incorrect declaration. The KNMG gave me back the subsidy because there was no basis for such a hotline. The KNMG now focuses on information. Besides, I think that if a doctor does that himself, he's not right. You cheat when you're cheating. If you see it with a colleague, you do have a moral obligation to report it. Putting care premium in your pocket if it doesn't belong there is just stealing from society. No more and no less.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u67	I am pleased that the Minister and I agree that anyone who sees fraud has a moral duty to report it. However, sometimes you work in a dependency situation with your boss, for example. If you see your boss cheating, it's like snitching. If the Minister regulates this legally through a reporting obligation, someone will be more likely to report fraud in the care sector. Then it is not snitching, but you have coverage of that legal obligation. Is that how the Minister sees it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u68	No, I think an obligation to notify fraud is a moral obligation. I think it is even more important than a legal obligation, in my jargon. I'd have liked to set it up with the KNMG myself. There isn't, but of course there is a hotline at the NZa. There is also a reporting option with your health insurance company that pays the bill. I encourage anyone who sees anything to actually report this to the NZa hotline. I would have liked to have it with the association itself. The association itself renounces it, but the Empire, the government, of course has such a hotline.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u69	A hotline is something other than a reporting obligation. Of course, a hotline has been around for a long time. Anyone can call in. But of course there are also people, as I just pointed out, who are afraid to rat out their boss and therefore don't do it. That is why it would be so good to set up a reporting obligation, so that everyone is really convinced to do it and is actually going to report fraud. That's something other than a hotline.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u70	It's something else. I'm not sure what Mrs. Klever expects of me. Does she expect me to say, if you see fraud, are you obliged to report it? I don't really know if, if you really see that there's a scam going on in this society, you're already obligated to report it. Yeah, our lawyer says we have to. So there is already a duty, in fact, indirectly. We do not disagree at all that fraud cannot be done. I also think that if you see fraud, you should report it. We also agree that this is a moral duty. I do not know exactly what Mrs Klever expects of me and what legal amendment she expects of me, which would make it different from: you just have to report it when you see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u71	I would like to congratulate the Minister for trying to find out with the medical association whether we can reach a hotline. The signal from the doctors, who do not want to do so, is very, very disappointing. I will give an example, if the President allows it. I was at work the other day at an academic hospital, where a doctor said to me: we put a bed here, because we are allowed to declare day money. The same doctor sent me an e-mail this week: "You know what we need? Space and freedom." That is a very benevolent doctor, who, in my opinion, does not even realize that he is dealing with care money. It happens all the time. The majority of doctors are very willing to do so, I really want to say, but this is happening. If the doctors say they don't want to do this, that's a disappointing signal. So the question is what is next? What are these doctors gonna do? Otherwise we can make systems and laws up to heaven...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u72	Your question is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u73	But if that morality doesn't change, nothing changes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u74	The doctors are involved in all kinds of projects we have on clarity and information on the declaration, which they themselves provide information on. I told you, we already have that hotline. It is not that we depended on their hotline, but we thought it might be easier for a doctor to report to their own professional association. If there's no basis for that, I can't force it. I can make sure there's another hotline. That's what's at the NZa. All the doctors who see this and want to report it can call that hotline, which is easily accessible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u75	Minister, how far have you come with your response? After all, you have already had 15 minutes of speaking time. The Secretary of State also wants to say something.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u76	I'm busy. It depends on the interruptions. I think they last longer than my text.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u77	Yes, but you've been answering for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u78	Well, if I have to stop, you give me that. I'll quit. I'm flexible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u79	No, but maybe you can speed up your answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u80	I come to the physical control by health insurance companies of care in kind in hospitals. The insurers do this: they carry out formal and material checks on the basis of Article 87 of the Health Insurance Act. Sometimes they do the same physically. Is it not often more effective to dismiss a board than to impose a fine? Both sanctions are in principle effective. It depends on the individual case which sanction is more effective in that case. How do I ensure that the D.A. has sufficient capacity to deal with care fraud? I have therefore made additional resources available for this purpose. The D.A. can extend the control of care. If I'm getting signals that the D.A.'s gonna have to drop cases based on capacity, I'm gonna look at that again. Is the DOT system being investigated for simplification? I would like to point out that the DBCs were greatly upcoded and that was the reason for going to the DOT system. The criticism of doctors on the DOT system is that they cannot see exactly what they are declaring. Yeah, when they could see that, we had upcoding. Year by year, the DOT system is improved and simplified, but also looked at with a view to fraud. In fact, I have already gone into the insightful health note. Ms. Bruins Slot asked for an update of the public prosecutor's efforts in tackling care fraud. In addition to information contained in the pgb letter received by the Chamber on 29 January, I can provide the following summary of the number of minutes provided by the Special Investigation Services, the FIOD and the Inspection SZW in the period 2013-2014 and of their follow-up by the Public Prosecutor's Office. It is good to remember that these are cases in which multiple suspects can occur. So the number of suspects will be higher than the numbers I mention here. During this period, the inspection SZW submitted nineteen minutes, sixteen of which are now in the pre-trial phase. In these cases, the functional court is in the process of assessing the case, interviewing the judge's commissioner or planning a hearing date. In three cases, the judge gave judgment. The FIOD has filed four minutes, one of which is in session preparation. Two cases were closed by a judge's judgment. In the fourth case, the defendant died. In addition to these completed investigations, there are currently seven ongoing investigations at the SZW Inspection and twelve at the FIOD. How many cases does the Inspection SZW deal with and how many hours does it have available? The inspection has been extended since 2014 and has been carrying out criminal investigations into declaration fraud in the Health Insurance Act since that date. To this end, capacity has been increased to 50 fte. This allows the Inspection SZW to take up a larger number of cases every year. The Inspection SZW and the Office make annual agreements on the number of investigations to be carried out. Seven investigations are currently under way at the inspection. If you have 50 men for that and if you soon have a few men on a case, it's countable that you can pick up 12 to 16 cases a year. Is it true that the NZa does not provide sufficient evidence of material and formal inspections of insurers? I've already gone into that ZN monitor. Are health insurers who have detected fraud allowed to share that information with other insurers? Healthcare insurers may register healthcare providers who have committed an infringement in the External Reference Register (EVR). The register warns insurers, who, on the basis of this information, may decide not to enter into contracts with a healthcare provider. However, with the refund policy, if the bill is correct, they will simply have to pay. Healthcare insurers are already cooperating more closely in the field of control and fraud control under the "Sincecare, Clean Account" programme. Together, health insurers pay attention to specific healthcare sectors every year. Another part of the programme is to improve the screening of healthcare providers to monitor quality and integrity and prevent fraud. As I have just pointed out, health insurers have recently launched a number of new projects following the NZa's critical report. They're also investigating the possibility of setting up a joint unit. It has been asked whether I can give an overview of the number of cases that have been returned to the police or fraud collection point since 2012. I'm not ready for that. I will answer the question in the next progress report. How many people work in the health insurance fraud departments? I don't know exactly what that division of people is like. There are also health insurance companies in the gallery which I have been told work five times as much in fraud as in marketing. I don't know exactly how it's handled with the health insurance companies. I don't think it's a good idea to ask out. The NZa must check whether the insurers are doing enough and report back to me. Shall I examine dentists and hospitals as well as the pgb? We do this in a different way, of course, but as I said, medical and specialist care has just been destroyed. What's the chance of specialists? I have already said that the insurers have stepped up their approach. What's the possibility for Rialto? Can insured persons who fraud be included in a separate insurance scheme? You will then have to set a standard, Mr Rutte spoke of five years on the basis of which an insured person may return to a normal health insurance provider. Of course, you cannot leave that to the health insurance companies themselves, because there is an acceptance obligation. The government opts for a single system for all insured persons, regardless of their medical risk or other characteristics. The point is that a separate collective insurance for difficult customers with one health insurance company next to the regular system does not fit in with that, because those involved are no longer integrated into the system, but are placed in a separate position. Moreover, there is a risk of precedent. Once there is a special insurance for troublesome cases, you will hear over and over again saying: "These cases are actually quite difficult. Shouldn't we include them?" I point that out, because that's what happened with the old WTZ. This would gradually increase the problem. These are my reservations about Mr Rutte's solution. Is it allowed to put anonymous declarations next to each other? As long as there is no data traceable to a person, you do not conflict with the Personal Data Protection Act. So if you do it carefully, there's a lot to do. So you can see that health insurance companies, if allowed, are increasingly working together to combat fraud.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u81	The Minister says that there are quite a lot of opportunities for cooperation and that insurers are trying to arrive at an integrated approach. It is very good that this can be done, but is it enough? Do we still need to remove obstacles to genuine cooperation? Or does the Minister want to look first at what is already possible and whether that is sufficient? If so, will that question be discussed afterwards?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u82	One is currently looking at what one can do together in such a unit. Perhaps that means that a unit wants to do things that are not possible because of certain obstacles. If that is found, we can see whether those barriers are real and whether we can solve them. In individual cases there are obstacles to medical professional secrecy, but in order to remove this obstacle, we have now tabled a legislative proposal. Healthcare insurers are increasingly working together. For example, following the NZa's critical report, new steps have been taken, for example, to co-ordinate files. Things like that are getting more and more structural.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u83	That sounds good. I trust the Minister will return to the Chamber if there are any obstacles. We can then discuss them and try to solve them. When an individual physician makes a declaration to five individual insurers on a day of 90, an individual health insurance provider never fish out of it. If we work together in a concentrated approach, we can do it. Is that something we can do now, or do we have to investigate whether that's okay?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u84	They're already putting data files next to each other. When you do that, of course, your eye-catching business fishes out. As insurers feel attracted to their role and want to check better, they are currently very often investigating whether they can do business together. When faced with real barriers, we will have to weigh the importance of the patient's privacy against the importance of the fraud investigation. I admit that if that happens, I will return to that dilemma in the progress report. Mr. Chairman. We have been asked whether disciplinary law can be used against fraudulent doctors. It's possible. Financial carelessness is covered by the second disciplinary standard. In addition, health insurers are competent to exercise disciplinary law. Moreover, I have already called on them in the second progress report on combating fraud in the care sector to make greater use of disciplinary law. The evaluation report of the BIG Act points out that there is so far little disciplinary enforcement policy in the case of care fraud. The evaluation shows that the instrument of disciplinary law deserves more attention in the comprehensive approach to fraud by healthcare professionals. I will therefore continue to bring the instrument of disciplinary law to the attention of insurers. I have already done so, but I will continue to do so so that they will really be more active in the use of the instrument. The programme plan is legitimate concern I promised to the Chamber in the spring. "What's taking so long? You need to tackle fraud now." I agree with that. A lot is happening. The progress report contains many pages on the actions that have since been implemented by individual health insurance companies, by health insurance companies together, by individual providers and by professional organisations such as the KNMG and the Order of Medical Specialists. All these parties have entered into discussions on what to do and whether they are doing enough. As a result, a multitude of actions have now been launched. I would therefore like to say that before we come up with new actions, let us now implement these actions. We need new actions only if new things are identified in the progress report. The NZa has also reported on fraud sensitivities by sector. Following the analysis, the NZa makes recommendations on the eight sectors. I've indicated how I deal with it. During the period 2015 to 2017, we will place the search task at the Inspection SZW. It has been asked whether it is efficient to set up an own extraordinary investigation service under VWS or whether it is better to do so at a department, where there is an inspection that already has a lot of knowledge in the house that can be shared. We have chosen for the latter for the time being. This is one of the opinions contained in the AEF report. We are still getting the results of the Borstlap Committee's investigation. In any case, it is obvious that such a special investigation service always falls within the remit of a minister and is never assigned to a Zbo. This does not happen at any inspection; they all fall within a department. It has been asked to look fundamentally at the system in the context of prevention. We are indeed doing so systematically. Since mid-2013, all new laws and regulations have been tested for fraud prevention through the VWS fraud test. The NZa may assess any substantial changes in funding systems for fraud-proofing. An inventory of fraud sensitivities within the existing legislation was carried out within VWS at the end of 2014. 50 laws and over 600 lower regulations have been vetted. The inventory shows that the majority does not contain any fraud sensitivities. Where they are, the necessary actions are being taken. In addition, Zorgverzekerings Nederland will look at our laws and regulations on the basis of fraud investigations by insurers and will send us signals.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u85	Mrs Bouwmeester has another question. Mrs. Bouwmeester, that's your fourth interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u86	Yeah, and it's about an unanswered question. Technically...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u87	We always do this 'technically' in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u88	Now, I'll just use my fourth interruption. It doesn't matter. I asked a question about the reverse burden of proof.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u89	There is a health insurance company that already applies that principle. It's already been arranged that you have to prove that the declaration is good if you file it. The reverse burden of proof therefore exists. Mrs. Bouwmeester was right. I should have answered that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u90	I would like to return to one of the points raised by the Minister, my words on the morality of concern. I am well aware that we cannot enforce morality in the care of law and regulation, but I am very shocked by the Minister's remark that the KNMG is giving back subsidies because there is no basis for an anonymous hotline. If that's not there already, I'm sure it's not going to appeal to each other for unwanted behavior either. Are there no possibilities other than laws and regulations to put this high on the agenda? What can the government, the government, do to take that step forward towards anchoring morale in health care?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u91	What is very important about that is that you are in conversation with each other and remains about what is normal in this, what we stand for and how we do our job. Do we do our job for our own gain or do we do our job to provide the best care to the patient and do we have an honour to be so good at it that we are then paid? The dbc system was the first decision I had to make as a minister. The DBs were destroyed by the upcoding. Then we introduced the DOT and now doctors can't see what they're declaring. They only give up what they do and then a declaration is added in a grouper. Doctors say they don't have control of it anymore. No, because when they had it, there was upcoding. We ourselves must ensure clear rules in which the number of errors is as low as possible. We ourselves must ensure that this regulation does not give us as much reason as possible to deal with it effectively fraudulently, but we must also talk to each other. I can see that this kind of debate, the progress reports and the NZa, which are on top of it, is getting off the ground. As a result, the KNMG, which does not organise a hotline, does receive calls and information. There too, that debate is being initiated.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u92	It seems extremely good to me that employees, doctors and institutions in the care sector should consult each other and reflect each other on the question: how are things in your organisation? There are already boards of supervision. In the first instance, I proposed that these supervisory councils be placed in a further position. They're already here. I don't want to build new structures. Is it possible to test that morality as an integral part of the policy of institutions? Are those directions that still offer perspective?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u93	Yes. I think that task is already with the Supervisory Board. However, I also think it is important to start talking with each other. I can put this on the agenda in all the administrative documents we have with the question: what are you doing about it? I can say: take a look in your own environment and take stock for me if you're having this conversation with each other. I agree with Mrs Dik that there is something to do with legislation and regulation, but it should also be intrinsically in an organisation. Let me agree with the Chamber that in the next progress report I will come back specifically to this and I will ask everyone what they are doing to have that conversation, without coming up with a rule again. Maybe that's a good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u94	Mr. Chairman. Fraud in pgbs damages the vast majority of budget holders who are very responsible for handling the pgb and for which the pgb is an indispensable tool for getting good care, focused on heavy and special care needs. Budget holders regularly give me the signal to suffer from fraud because it puts the pgb in a bad light, while for many users who are in good faith it is an essential tool to shape the care themselves. These are the words my letter begins with. I believe, in fact, that budget holders should not be criminalised and that we should tackle fraud hard, precisely in order to ensure that the good tool of the pgb is a solid and reliable instrument for the future, which can be preserved. That is why I have anchored it in all four health care laws that we have recently amended. So I'm fighting that combating fraud in pgbs wouldn't be good or criminalize people. It is precisely in order to preserve the good instrument that we need to look closely at fraud. I have sent a number of reports from the SZW Inspection and the Dutch Healthcare Authority. I've reported on the house calls. We have had discussions in the past on the pgb instrument. Maybe it's good to look through the hairs of the eye and see what signals come out of the different reports. They are not clear, but they do shed light on the issue that can help us to think about whether we have the right package to take in order to ensure that that solid instrument, with which we want to combat fraud, is good. In the reports and alerts of the Inspection SZW, where people working every day are dealing with fraud cases, I see the accent you have to look at the front. They actually think that the scheme is too broad and that it is too easy to use it. That is why we are up against a lot of things. That makes sense, too. Those are people who deal with fraud cases every day. They come up with that finding. They think the front is too open to say so. The NZa report says that care firms could do a little more, especially in conversations with clients, and better look at the grounds for refusal: when and when do you not do it, when will you or will you be eligible for such a personalised budget? When you look at the health offices, they signal that they do have grounds for refusal, but that it is difficult and that they run into a number of lawsuits. If they try, they're not gonna be okay. The health offices that stick their necks out often also end up in legal discussions. That is what I can say about the grounds for refusal. In the Chamber we also had discussions about the pgb instrument. We believe that this instrument is precisely intended to give people freedom and, perhaps more than we would normally do, to make demands on the front. These are contradictory images resulting from the effectiveness of the various organs and bodies. They shed a different light on the way you could look at the pgb-instrument. What is the package that we have developed with each other and are developing to respond to these different principles and side lights? First of all, that's the right to draw. Mrs Leijten was right to say that the right to draw is not the panacea in the debate with Mr Van 't Wout. It does help, though. It helps to see claims from the caregivers, allowing you to do checks at the front and making sure that you can look over the domains hopefully more likely to detect fraud cases, or at least better control afterwards. So it's not a panacea, but it's very important. We have also talked about other reasons, and they are also important in this context. Seeing the people in the indication, and not indicating it on paper, but just having a conversation, helps the central indicator body. The conscious choices made by the health offices help to inform people about the use of the pgb and what comes with it, but also to see if it is a conscious choice. Looks like those house visits are a good line, but we're getting reports on that eventually. Not only from the point of view of fraud, but simply from the point of view of good information. Let me give you an example. We all too often see that malicious agencies............................................................................................................................................................................................... Sometimes the caregiver gives his DigiD or care card and he or she later knows nothing. It is important to mention this when visiting the house and, in terms of information alone, to say what you do and what you do not do. I will come back to that later. House visits will be incredibly helpful not only from the point of view of the fight against fraud, but also from the point of view of information. The Dutch Healthcare Authority is investigating the legal instruments, in particular with regard to the grounds for refusal. Can you say at the front: when and when? I think it is important to include budget holders, such as Per Balance, in the examination of the grounds for refusal. They have a great interest in knowing when and when. I know that's something they've got a high profile on. When we talk about whether you can give more hands and feet to the grounds for refusal, it is important that this happens in consultation with those who have a great interest in it. The next point is that we have arranged in the Long-Term Care Act that we can make demands to third parties. Should we not make demands on the management by a third party when a pgb is awarded to a vulnerable person who may not be able to manage it so well himself? Shouldn't we talk to each other about when we "allow" that such a third will manage the budget for a pgb holder? Mrs Leijten added another element. Mr. Van't Wout insisted on that, too. If vulnerable people resort to a personalised budget because care in kind does not actually apply to them, then you should not also discuss whether care in kind should be better organised for these people. So you don't choose a pgb because you don't have any other options, but because the care you can get is better focused on vulnerable people. So we need to look at how care in the personal budget is organised for vulnerable people. Mrs Leijten made a number of proposals for this. I think it is very important not only to look at the punishments and the grounds for refusal, but also at how we can make care in kind for vulnerable people much more tailor-made, so that, as it were, you also have a positive incentive rather than just the negative incentive with all the relevant regulations.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u95	I imagine there are grounds for refusing someone a personal budget. However, I do not want to think at all about this solution, because we still have no idea why people sometimes have no alternative. However, I am pleased that the Secretary of State refers to this and wants to make an alternative possible for care via a pgb. Can we have the analysis I asked for in the short term? In my view, there are a number of practical obstacles for providers why they cannot be covered by the Wlz, but sometimes there are also very strange rules that cannot be applied. If we know that quickly, we can really take steps in the new financing form for the Wlz, because that is what we are going to discuss this year in order to see how we can also pay those providers via care in kind.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u96	In fact, we have created a number of new possibilities in the Long-Term Care Act, so that care can be offered not only in an institution but also through personalised budgets in packages or packages. It would indeed be good to look at how this is going and what we are learning from it. I believe that these home visits can also provide a great deal of information on what is being encountered in this respect. To be honest, I am actually in favour of looking into that properly. Around May we will get the results of the house visits from all those care offices. I would like to promise to include in the May report the question of how we could focus more on care in kind on vulnerable groups.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u97	That's good. I don't think you just have to do it through the house calls. Then you can miss a group. You could also look very carefully at what exactly is the basis for the pgb and whether a particular group is remarkably well represented in it. What organised initiatives, such as certain types of housing, are there via the pgb? We have very good examples, but we also know the cases of terrible financial exploitation that we are discussing today. I think that can be mapped out by region. It would be nice if we could involve that, because then we can see how we can reverse supply in such a way that vulnerable people are less at financial risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u98	I'm sure I'd like to take a look at that. I think it is important to look closely at the alternatives. If we find that an instrument is not working properly, and is particularly vulnerable to vulnerable people, then we need to look at how care can be organised differently and better in order to prevent this kind of thing. Prevention is also better than cure in that respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u99	The personalised budget is of course intended for tailor-made care. It would be very sad if the really vulnerable people would not be able to make use of it, because there are too many criminals in the Netherlands who want to take advantage of it. So should we reduce the care of vulnerable people, or should we make sure that we deal with these criminals, these crooked care agencies?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u100	The latter, of course, anyway. If we want good access to care, and in some cases tailor-made care because the current care offer for those people is not yet suitable or not suitable, then the instrument of the personalised budget is very important in that regard. There are two ways of shaping that. One way is as follows. In certain cases, we may have to allocate a personal budget, but you cannot let the person in question manage it, but you must do so by a third; we must then talk about what we are asking of that third party. If we do not do that, we will pave the way again for agencies where there are also malicious organisations; I would also like to say that there are also a lot of good mediation agencies. In fact, you need another system within the system to make sure that it works properly. However, we need to think together about what that means in terms of control burdens, administrative burdens and so on. The other way is to see if there are alternatives that can be tailored to the needs of the care system. I would point out that, in the context of the Long-Term Care Act, we have just said that this should not only be institutional care, but intensive, long-term care that can be provided in different forms. If it can also be done with a pgb, a modular package at home or in another way, it offers many perspectives for many more alternatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u101	It is true that it is a matter of hard-working these crooked care agencies. That's what people are behind taking advantage of vulnerable people. They're criminals. It's like weeds: they set up one desk, get tapped on the fingers and continue with another desk. How can we effectively ensure that these crooked care agencies do not get laid?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u102	By not being distracted by pre-checks and house visits, where you find out what's going on, where you better see if people get care, whether all passes have been issued and whether people have to wait and see. Why are we making these house calls? As far as I'm concerned, there are two reasons. First, to sit much closer and by looking at the client's eyes whether there is a desk behind it that is good or bad, and then to pass that information from the health offices to the inspection or the Public Prosecutor's Office. Secondly, these visits are not only done from a fraud point of view, but also to inform people, to tell them: watch out, watch out who you are doing business with. We want to give these house visits a more structural place. The cabinet has earmarked money for this purpose and the Chamber has agreed to this in the budgetary procedure. We do this not only from the point of view of a good indication, but above all from the point of view of whether things are still going well at the beginning but also in the interim. Then we have a good, structural way of monitoring where crooked agencies are going, to denounce that and to take action if necessary. I very much agree with Mrs Bruins Slot's call for the root and branch of these malicious agencies to be eradicated from care. It's a difficult subject. It always turns up. It's like weeds, like Mrs. Bruins Slot said. We just have to put in a lot of weed killer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u103	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u104	With drawing rights, house visits, taking a good look at the indication, once again examining whether the legal instruments are good and looking together at grounds for refusal and offering alternatives, we have a package that has taken a good step towards the future in long-term care. Various questions have been asked from the Chamber. Mrs Leijten asked: should we not even look at the target groups and the pgb-aid and the issues in which people are at risk? Mr Van 't Wout and Mrs Leijten asked if the bill will always be presented to the people who are the victims. Members have read from my letter that I too think that is an important point. On the one hand, we have arranged with the personal budgets that the responsibility for quality and management lies very much with the budget holder. On the other hand I also come across cases where you feel on your clogs sometimes it is quite obvious that the budget holder can't really do that much about it. Then you run into the phenomenon that the formal responsibility lies with the budget holder, when you actually want to look behind it. On the basis of a case involving Agis and Pyxis, I have already mentioned it to Mrs Leijten: let us take a step in the right direction with the recoveries to look together with the healthcare office at what we can do together against the person who caused the fraud. It's not that easy. That's got all kinds of legal hooks and eyes on it. I think we should look much more closely at what is possible. Can you bring civil claims together? What about right of reg? How can you ensure that the distribution of pgb goes on in a good way, while you fight together against the fraud? I want to investigate that very seriously. I have also found a great willingness at the healthcare office to do so, not only to shoot in formal mode but also to see how we detect the criminals behind the fraud. I'm looking at it. I want to do that very seriously. We're doing that now on the basis of a case. Well, that's good, 'cause you'll have something in your hands. If I once again report to the Chamber a total status, for example in connection with the NZa investigation on the legal instruments that are still to come, I would like to take this point into account. I very much agree that we should not only take the formal path that we have legally devised with each other, but also the path that leads to, in the words of Mr Van 't Wout, the real criminals. I have already raised the issue of malicious agencies. Mrs Dijkstra asked me about the serious violations of undue payments. On October 13, 2014, I sent a letter to the Chamber stating that we have investigated the situation. The Dutch Health Authority said that there were no serious infringements. Where such a payment was wrongly requested for lack of clarity in communication, an indication of the NZa has been followed and all funds have been repaid. That doesn't mean the stocking is finished with that. In our governance letter we can see that we are looking even further at what it means if there are really unwelcome payments. Then you should also be able to address the driver. This can be read in our governance letter. Fortunately, however, this investigation has resulted in cases that were immediately repaid and that there was no serious illegality.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u105	I find that so complicated. If you get AWBZ money as an institution, you know what that is for. If you still charge that money to your clients, how can there be no willfulness?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u106	The analyses of the Dutch Healthcare Authority, but also of the Dutch Healthcare Institute, show that the rules were sometimes a bit multi-interpretable. That is why we are considering whether they should be tightened up. Sometimes the information and communication weren't good. Where these violations were found, they were immediately arrested and repaid. That doesn't mean the stocking is finished with that. You have to keep checking to see if that's what's going on. This is also apparent from the investigations carried out by the Dutch Healthcare Authority.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u107	In some cases, it was really large sums. The Secretary of State is talking about the regulations. With the declarations in the healthcare sector, we see everywhere that the regulations are often in the way. However, if there are such obvious issues on the agenda, there is still a question of whether something should be done after reimbursement. St. Anthony's Hospital has been fined. Nothing else happened here. I find that hard to beat.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u108	There's been a lot of research on that. This is evident from the letter of 13 October. It has been considered whether there was a deliberate question here, in which it has been said: we have someone paying for something we knew did not have to be paid for. That wasn't the case. However, there were payments that really had to be paid within the framework of the AWBZ. That was established and therefore repaid. It has also been examined whether there was illegality or willfulness. This has not been the case so far. The Dutch Healthcare Authority will keep an eye on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u109	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u110	Mrs Bruins Slot asked me how I looked at the number of cases detected during the inspection, in relation to suspicions. It was 11 cases. I'm a little careful about these suspicions. She then referred to that 7%. I didn't add it up, but it was in my letter. I did not add it up, but Mrs Leijten was right to point out that there was a risk selection, with a study based on that and that 7%. That's still a lot. Every case is too much. In the fight against fraud, we will always find that the capacity at the back, say the criminal offences, is almost never large enough to catch every case. Then you're not doing very well either, because then you're using very expensive research capacity too early in the process. The people of the inspection also say: make sure you do more in front of prevention, so that we can grab some things that really matter. That doesn't change the fact that you have to constantly check whether the balance is right. Are sufficient cases being addressed that really need to be addressed? The Social Affairs and Employment Inspectorate keeps us constantly informed of this. In case of suspected fraud, they are analysed by the care office's fraud department. Sometimes it is stopped and passed on to the Social Affairs and Employment Inspectorate. For example, the Social Affairs and Employment Inspectorate also brings together information on malicious agencies, in order to be able to deal with them in its entirety. We will have to watch this with each other all the time. Do we have sufficient capacity for the number of cases that occur, which are sufficiently legally harsh and can be used as an example? However, can we above all ensure that measures are taken in the chain in advance to prevent these things? That's gotta be an interaction. I think it's very good that all these people are in a network now. A separate department has also been set up at the Ministry to coordinate this with each other, so that we can constantly monitor whether the investments at the front and the capacity at the back match well. We, too, believe that every issue that needs to be addressed needs to be addressed. At the same time, I understand very well that priorities must be set in the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Social Affairs and Employment Inspectorate and that they must address issues that can be successfully brought to an end. We will have to watch this with each other all the time. The capacity is now around 18 investigations per year. We will see if that will be sufficient in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u111	I am pleased that the Secretary of State is now explaining it so nuancedly, because I was, of course, addressed by a lot of people after that newspaper article who asked whether we should continue with that personal budget. If, however, the Secretary of State himself indicates that he has 0.5% of these 2,100 cases prosecuted, that also sheds a different light. But I agree with him that we have to deal hard with every fraud case, especially those crooked care agencies. I come to another point and that is what my question is about. The Dutch Health Authority has also indicated that care offices are not yet sufficiently active in the fight against fraud. The NZa makes a remarkable observation: the care offices do too little to combat fraud in the normal care institutions. How does the Secretary of State view this observation?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u112	If the Dutch Healthcare Authority finds that out, who am I to say that it is not? At the same time, you always have to make sure that you have proof and that you can also take action. Especially in the case of fraud, you have to have a serious suspicion of that before you can go to search. I make no distinction in dealing with fraud with care in kind or with pgbs. If care firms discover fraud, whether it's at an institution or somewhere else, then they need to investigate it properly, possibly stop things and let them have consequences for the purchase. If there's any suspicion of fraud, they'll have to pass it on. Whether that's in institutions, in crooked agencies or in individuals who want to run away with the money.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u113	The personal budget covers 8% of the total care paid by healthcare agencies. Normal care covers 92%. Healthcare agencies only raise €500,000 in fraud at normal health care institutions. Of this, the Dutch Healthcare Authority says that it is very strange, that it is out of balance and that there is insufficient priority. What is the Secretary of State going to do to ensure that care offices also invest sufficient time and energy in the fight against fraud in the normal care institutions?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u114	We have, of course, done a great deal about this almost automatically. For example, Mrs Bruins Slot talks about the upcoding, I think, because that was what the report was about. She now shows that it is very broad. That's true, but one of the most important things is that someone gets more money than the healthcare indication indicates. This has indeed been investigated by the Dutch Healthcare Authority. All indications issued in mandate have been examined as to whether the CIZ would have given the same indication one month later. It is true that in some of these cases there could be upcoding. That doesn't mean that it's all fraud, because the care gravity can actually be agitated. But there could also have been upcoding. As a result, the mandates and controls have been strengthened in the first place. When we introduced the Long-Term Care Act, we decided not to do so at all in terms of mandate. This means that access to care is made on the basis of an indication by the CIZ and not by mandate by the healthcare institutions. I am not saying that this will never happen again, but that is a measure that will at least prevent upcoding at the gate. That is an important observation, because it has taken an important step towards preventing upcoding, and thus possible fraud in the indication.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u115	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u116	Mr Van 't Wout had a question about the investigation into the 15,000 people who didn't request pgb. That was, of course, also discussed at length yesterday in the debate on the right to draw. I agree with the two-sidedness of the research mentioned in this debate. On the one hand, you have to look at what's behind it, what reasons it was. But on the other hand, you should also see why people didn't request it and whether that was perhaps wrong. I'm sure I'd like to take those two sides of the investigation with me. I hope that the results will be available at the beginning of March. Mrs Dik-Faber asked whether there was a policy of discouragement, for example through the deliberate decision-making. That is a particular point, because we want to prevent vulnerable people, who cannot manage it themselves, from falling into the hands of crooked agencies. At the same time, we do not want to discourage people. I would like to put it this way: we must discourage when necessary. For a vulnerable person who cannot manage the budget himself and who is in danger of being handed over to a desk that cannot be trusted, I would be happy if at least a very good conversation was made at the front: if you do it already, make sure you don't give up your pass and your DigiD, and you pick out a bona fide desk and not just take someone. I do not know whether Mrs Dik-Faber thinks this is a policy of discouragement, but I would like to pursue a policy of discouragement in those situations where it is very much necessary to ensure that people do not fall into the hands of crooked agencies. Of course, it should not be an obstacle for people to get tailored care, because that is precisely why we have introduced the pgb and incorporated it into all laws.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u117	I read in the letter from the Secretary of State that the health offices are also involved in the formulation of the grounds for refusal. The NZa is investigating that. I think it is very important that the grounds for refusal are never used as an excuse to raise thresholds. We have held debates on this in the context of the WlZ, among other things. Of course, there are situations in which we need to protect people from themselves and it is more sensible that they do not choose a pgb. However, it must never be an excuse to set unnecessary thresholds. Unfortunately, too often I get emails that show that care offices and municipalities find the pgb a bit difficult and prefer to deliver care in kind. Those grounds for refusal must therefore be properly applied and never set unnecessary thresholds. That's my plea.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u118	I agree. That is why I would also like the further discussion on the grounds of refusal to be conducted with those concerned themselves, for example with Per Balance, in order to ensure that these improper thresholds do not slip in gradually. Then I come to the question of where people can report who are the victims of fraud. I think it is of the utmost importance that people can report and that they can count on reliability. It was just about to happen: are you going to suffer yourself if you report it? That was also why I stated in that case that we need to ensure that people can come forward safely and not suffer themselves. In practice, you can report to the healthcare office, to the Inspection SZW, to the Dutch Healthcare Authority, to Per Balance and to the police. We have arranged for the network to exchange information between those involved in the fight against fraud. This creates an information network in which attention can be concentrated. Secure reporting is very important. To sum up, I think that we have taken two important steps together in relation to pgbs and care in kind. As a result of this debate, I would like to add that we need to consider carefully whether tailor-made care can take place within care in kind, so that vulnerable people have an alternative. I'd like to take that with me. On the other hand, for the time being, we need to put the mandating in the refrigerator in the indication for the Long-Term Care Act, in order to see how that might be possible in the long term. I believe that this has taken two important steps to ensure that fraud in long-term care is combated as effectively as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u119	I will reopen the second-term meeting in the debate on care fraud. The speaking time during this period is two minutes per political group, including the reading of a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u120	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister and the Secretary of State for the answers. There is a solid package of measures to prevent fraud, errors and inappropriate use. We have faith in that. We would also like to see progress in the progress report, which fortunately is already coming to the Chamber in spring. We can make laws here up to heaven, but when they have no effect in practice, it doesn't work. We think this is important; thank you for the commitments on this. I do have a question about the inappropriate declaration, about the variation in practice. That really saves a lot of money. Reports say that this could go up to 1.6 billion. Healthcare insurers can actually see the variation in practice and they can talk about it. That's important, because then doctors start thinking about what they're doing and why. It also has to do with morality, which has been discussed here before. You'd like more to be done next to a conversation as a stick behind the door. If they cannot explain why they make much more declarations, the accounts must not be paid or recovered. Hence my request for the reverse burden of proof. The Minister says it's already possible. My question to the Minister is: will she include in her progress report how mirroring the variation in practice leads to different behaviour? Do health insurance companies want to measure that themselves, or do the medical associations want to measure that? We are really disappointed in doctors who give back the subsidy intended to prevent misdeclaration. This seems like a very nice option for doctors to make things better based on mirror information. Doctors are the first to declare, then the health insurance companies are on the move and then the NZa.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u121	Mr. Chairman. It's like there's two debates today. Let me start with the Secretary of State. During my very first budget of Health, Welfare and Sport, a motion was adopted to combat pgb fraud. That was in 2008. Mr President, you were there at the time. We've had a long discussion. There's been a lot of experience tracking it down. We have also come to the conclusion that we must try to prevent this from happening in the front. I welcome the two commitments made by the Secretary of State. We're not going to punish the financially exploited pgb holder again by reclaiming the pgb. It will be legally complicated, but I have heard clearly that the approach must be that there is no double penalty. In addition, the Secretary of State will identify where an alternative supply of care may be needed to make people less vulnerable, which requires care to run through a pgb. That's good. But then the Minister. Two years ago, we had the first major debate on fraud in the care sector. It was an absolute top priority and research was carried out. If I put in a row how many reports have been produced by now, I'll come up with meters of paper. Still, almost nothing has been achieved. Healthcare insurers aren't even providing information yet. The NZa needs other research offices to make an assessment of the fraud. I'm filing two motions, and they speak for themselves. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that fraud detection is not in good hands with the NZa;]] [[considers that the Office should consider whether there may be an intention in the case of unlawful declarations;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that, in the future, in the event of suspected fraud, the Public Prosecutor shall consider whether administrative or criminal proceedings are being carried out,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a number of health insurers are now underperforming in the field of controls and the fight against fraud;]] [[noting that these benefits of health insurers are already monitored by the NZa and data are therefore available;]] [[calls on the Government to make public those health insurers who are underperforming in the field of controls and the fight against fraud,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28828-76]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Leijten and Mr Bruins Slot. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28828-77]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u122	Mr. Chairman. I'm really disappointed in the Minister's approach to fraud. The Secretary of State had 30,000 house visits carried out in the context of the pgb approach and found fraud in 7% of cases. There are stacks of reports that show that care is being cheated in the Netherlands. But the minister continues to hide behind reports, task forces and administrative consultations. She's leaving billions of euros behind. The Minister really shows minimal ambition, contrary to her attitude to abolishing the free choice of doctors. In doing so, the Minister threatens to even cross the parliament through an AMvB. But it really leaves the fraud approach completely out of the question. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that research shows that billions of euros are lost in health care due to fraud;]] [[Whereas these fraud billions can reduce the basic insurance premium;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that every euro detected in fraud is returned to the contributor in the form of a lower care premium,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Klever. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28828-78]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u123	I'm counting on the VVD's support for this motion. Then I come to the duty of reporting fraud. The Minister indicated that she does not know how to implement it. I just figured it out. The NZa already has a duty to report on continuity of care and the merger test. The Minister can arrange this through the Market Organisation Health Act. It's a shame I have to tell the Minister, but I'm happy to do it. If necessary, it can arrange this through a General Measure of Management. For example, her colleague, the Minister of V and J, also regulated the obligation to report health insurance companies for care fraud, i.e. through an AMvB. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that care fraud is unacceptable and that it involves a public interest;]] [[Considers that caregivers who receive signals of fraud with declarations, signals of upcoding or other unlawfulness should be encouraged to report this;]] [[Considers that reporting obligations will help to detect more fraudulent cases;]] [[calls on the Government to introduce a reporting obligation for caregivers for suspected fraud in the care sector,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Klever and Mr Gerbrands. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28828-79]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u124	Mrs Klever has indicated both in the first term and in the second period that everything must be done to combat fraud and that we must give the money back to the citizen. I think that is a very good starting point. The NZa has indicated in its opinions that one of the things that should be done to combat fraud is that insurers should no longer be obliged to pay full compensation in the case of uncontracted care. How does Mrs Klever look at that principle of the NZa?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u125	That is the VVD's way of reducing the cost of care: no more reimbursement of all care. The PVV believes that it is precisely the fraud that needs to be dealt with and, in this way, that care should be kept affordable. How do you do that? Just by checking. Healthcare insurers need to carry out much more checks. If the health insurance companies don't do that, you're basically giving a pass to cheat. That is exactly what we need to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u126	I would like to make another attempt, because Mrs Klever is very disappointed in the Minister, because she would not do everything possible to tackle fraud. One of the measures recommended by the NZa to tackle fraud is that insurers should no longer be obliged to pay full compensation for uncontracted care. They would be able to keep the fraudsters out of the door and would not have to pay the bill. Isn't that what Mrs. Klever should be talking about? How does she look at the NZa's advice?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u127	That is a very broad measure that affects a lot more people than when you really go after that fraud. You'd be dipping well-meaning caregivers with this, too. I think you shouldn't take such a broad approach that you're dipping a lot of people into, purely and simply to deal with this fraud. Those health insurance companies just need to check. If they then encounter fraud, they should not reimburse the bill, but you should not rule out all uncontracted care in advance. That seems far too rigorous to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u128	Your time is up.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u129	I have another motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u130	Yes, but your time is really up. You're way over two minutes. So I guess that's one for next time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u131	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u132	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u133	Mr. Chairman. Fraud is the axe at the root of trust in health care. That is why it is important to put a good lock on the front and the back door. The Secretary of State has done this recently with 30,000 house visits. That's good. I would like to challenge the Minister a little more in that regard, also because today, above all, there was the impression that many investigations have been carried out which we can turn against the door. However, we have not yet locked the door. The crooked care agencies are getting away with this too easily. As the Secretary of State said, it is indeed important to eradicate that weed. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that since 2009, Chamberwide calls have been made to make crooked care agencies impossible to work;]] [[Considering that in 2015 there are still malicious care agencies active;]] [[Whereas vulnerable budget holders are the victims of these malicious health care agencies and the personalised budget is recovered from them;]] [[calls on the government to send a plan of action to the Chamber before the summer recess of 2015 in which the government concretely indicates how it intends to prevent the work of malicious care agencies,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bruins Slot and Mr Pia Dijkstra. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28828-80]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u134	Why this motion? Because the measures taken by the Secretary of State mainly concern the budget holders and not so much the malicious care agencies. The next motion takes note of the fact that the healthcare offices and the health insurance companies are simply not yet sufficiently committed to tackling fraud. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that the fight against fraud should be a top priority for health insurers and health offices;]] [[Whereas, however, the Dutch Health Authority concludes that health insurers and health offices are still not sufficiently active in combating fraud;]] [[calls on the Government, to make arrangements with health insurers and health offices to deploy sufficient capacity to combat care fraud, and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bruins Slot and Mr Fat-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28828-81]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u135	The Secretary of State didn't really come out either, but the care offices do a lot of pgb fraud but the care in kind they really leave behind. It's still pretty fragmentary what they do. I am not saying that myself, but that is what the Dutch Healthcare Authority says. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Dutch Healthcare Authority concludes that care offices do not carry out enough fraud investigations into care institutions providing care in kind;]] [[Considering that, in addition to paying attention to fraud involving personal budgets, care agencies should also pay sufficient attention and commitment to the fight against fraud of health care institutions providing care in kind;]] [[Whereas a more preventive policy should be pursued here;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with the 32 healthcare offices, to develop a joint approach to tackle fraud prevention in healthcare institutions providing care in kind and to inform the Court of Justice of this before the summer recess 2015,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Bruins Slot. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28828-82]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u136	Mr. Chairman. I thank the rulers for the comprehensive explanation. It is good to hear that there will be more scope for cooperation, that insurers will make use of it, and that, should there be any obstacles to doing so, there will be action on it. The Minister did respond to the idea of a separate insurance scheme for systematic fraudsters, as is the case with car insurance. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas fraudulent insured persons can be disbarred by their insurer but cannot be excluded from another insurer because of the obligation to accept them;]] [[Whereas it is also necessary for insured persons who are fraudulent to have access to care, but it is desirable that they should be better monitored by the insurer;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the possibility of introducing a "last resort" insurance scheme for those who have been fraudulent, including the possibilities of an adjusted premium and the possible period of time during which insured persons are obliged to be covered by this adapted regime, and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Rutte. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28828-83]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u137	Now we've had a lot of debates about how easy it is to make your declarations so that you cash the maximum price. Nothing is actually being done about it and if so, it is an unjustified declaration, an error with filling in etc. Does the VVD really think that citizens are the problem when it comes to care fraud and that there should therefore be a new insurance policy? Isn't the problem with the hospitals and care institutions rather than with the people themselves?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u138	I have been very clear in my first term by saying that care fraud occurs throughout the chain and in all places, but that this does not mean that every hospital is cheating and they are all crooks, or that every doctor is cheating and a crook or that every insured person is cheating and a crook. But appropriate measures are needed at every place and they are also being taken. I note that where there is a small group of insured persons who do cheat, they can now visit different insurers in a kind of travelling circus, which I find undesirable. Mrs Leijten should also think that this is undesirable, because she too wants to be tough on fraudsters. So it is not a question of this being the solution for everything, but in my opinion it is one of the missing links.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u139	I would like to know from Mr Rutte how big the problem is. I think this is really shooting a cannon at a mosquito, knowing that it has to be taken elsewhere and that those who have to detect fraud, namely the health insurance companies, have not even provided data on their detection. We all let that go, but measures must be taken against the insured.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u140	I'm resisting this frame, because that's bullshit. All these other measures must be taken, and we support them to a large extent. It is important that you act everywhere in the chain where necessary. Here is the problem that fraudsters can be evicted but cannot be refused. In the case of car insurance, it is quite normal that there should be a separate regime, precisely to keep an eye on fraudsters. I want to see if it can and what the consequences are, and no more than that. That is the content of the motion and I hope to get a majority in favour of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u141	Suggestions for studies should always be possible. The central question is, of course, whether or not insured persons are being treated hard enough. The Stichting Complaints and Disputes Healthcare Insurance keeps a close eye on this. In her 2013 annual report, she wrote: "The sanctions imposed, if any, are generally far-reaching. The financial consequences of this can be considerable." In fact, she says to the health insurance companies that they need to make it even more plausible that there was an intent to mislead them if they accused insured persons of fraud. The official agency says that there is already quite a lot going on. I ask Mr Rutte how one can be reconciled with the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u142	The example given here by Mrs Bruins Slot shows that you have to be careful when describing when something is fraud and when a mistake or a false declaration is made. We really need to be careful about that. I really wouldn't want anyone who makes a false declaration to be assigned to another separate insurer as a fraud. It must be part of the research that we define this sharply and that we do not just put everyone in a separate regime. If Mrs. Bruins Slot thinks that's important, I'll share it with her.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u143	That's right. In fact, the official body says that the insured is now not sufficiently careful when it comes to proving that there was fraud. The health insurance companies need to be more careful. The question is, therefore, whether we should examine not only Mr Rutte's question, but also whether it should be carefully addressed to the insured person. In fact, Mrs Leijten is right: if you are to tackle the one small group of individual insured people hard, you must also tackle all the major institutions hard. Equal monks, equal hoods.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u144	That is very much the question. I fully agree with that care. I said that in the first period. Then it was said that insurers do far too little about fraud. There's a very big difference between misdeclaring and what you can really qualify as fraud. There's a very large area in between. This applies to providers, but it also applies to the individual insured. The same care must be taken everywhere. When it comes to providers, we tend to find everything scandalous here. In the case of fraud, on the other hand, everything is in a great deal of trouble. That doesn't fit in there. We have to make sure that it is properly declared, but it doesn't fit in with the insured person either. I am not concerned about more people being tracked down and dragged by the hairs. It concerns the systematic fraudsters. Maybe I'd like to put them in a different regime. At least I'd like to have looked into that possibility. That's the point. I've got eight seconds. I assume they're for my colleague.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u145	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister and the Secretary of State for replying in the first term. I very much welcome the generous and clear commitment of the Secretary of State to get on with it now that, where budget holders are victims of fraud, the bad guys who did it are caught instead of them. That is what I find really profitable in this debate. The only downside to his generous commitment is that the rather unique opportunity is taken away from me to submit a motion together with the SP once. Anyway, it's about the content. It is still important that we continue to tackle those who commit fraud and make it possible to do so. There is one question I have left out of the first term. That's whether you can deal with doctors who are guilty of supplying false indications through disciplinary law. And if not, would that be an interesting thought?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u146	Mr. Chairman. I don't have any motions, but I do have a few comments. I have already tabled a motion with Mrs Bruins Slot on how to deal with malicious pgb agencies. It has shown that we are all in broad agreement here on the importance of preventing and combating fraud. The Minister says that much is already happening. He is working on a plan of approach with the various parts of the healthcare sector. I look forward to that. I understand that plan is coming around May of this year. I look forward to it, but I also express the hope that in the meantime the fight against fraud will continue vigorously. There's an investigation from the NZa that shows the irregularities and weaknesses. The Minister explains why the NZa could not give figures on care fraud, for example because the NZa is not competent to do samples. I also understand these limitations, but the announcement of the report, of course, gave rise to the expectation that we would be given a report on care fraud. Once again, I find that we have not received it. Furthermore, the Minister indicated that health insurance companies in the Netherlands do not receive all information from health insurance companies about checks and fraud investigations. However, it is important that the NZa has the right information and is not dependent on extrapolation. Can the Minister confirm that the health insurance companies will provide all the information to the NZa? Another question to the Minister about the investigation of declarations carried out by the hospitals themselves and checked by the NZa. The Minister says that it has all been done very precisely and that everything has been turned upside down, with the bottom stone coming up and no deliberately wrong declarations have been found. On the one hand, this can mean something very positive, it can also say something about the complexity of showing fraud or it can indicate inadequate methods. I'd like a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u147	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the two directors for their answers to all the questions asked. In particular, thanks to the Minister for the commitment to make morality a part of the next progress report, although I also realise that it is an intrinsic value in the care of which it is very difficult to lay down rules. One question remained, namely about the DB agencies that advise hospitals. I hear that's very lucrative. What's the Minister gonna do about it? I tabled a motion together with Mrs Bruins Slot from the CDA because I also believe that, as the NZa has also concluded, healthcare agencies and health insurance companies are really doing too little to detect fraud. That's why my name's underneath. I also have a motion of my own because I have not heard in the term of the Secretary of State that he has promised to do so. But maybe I'm wrong; I'd still like to hear it. It is about the fact that at the moment people with a personal budget are the victims of the mediation agencies acting, but also of the fact that they are getting a story and that personal budgets are being suspended, and that therefore the continuity of care is at stake. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that vulnerable people suffer from pgb fraud by rogue mediation agencies;]] [[Whereas, in the interests of these people, continuity of care should be paramount;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with health offices and municipalities, to make every effort to prevent the suspension of personal budgets and, if so, to ensure continuity of care,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28828-84]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u148	I would like to say in my last second that I unfortunately have to leave this debate because of a debate on sustainable public procurement, on which there is a lot to be said. I will be happy to read back the stenogram of the rest of the sitting.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u149	Thank you for taking part in the debate so far. This ended the second term of office. The Minister indicated that she could immediately answer the outstanding questions and give a response to the motions tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u150	Mr. Chairman. I think that this debate makes it very clear that the attention and priority for fraud are unabated. Every euro must be well spent, and if it is not, we must combat it as much as possible. Mrs Bouwmeester asked me to comment in the progress report on the extent to which mirror information leads to different behaviour. This is not going to work in this spring's progress report, which has already been launched. We will include it as part of the autumn progress report. So we're gonna set it in motion. Mrs Leijten pointed out that the NZa did not have sufficient information. The big difference is, of course, that the NZa has information on an individual level. If I ask a question in a research assignment, the NZa can use third party information. There's nothing against that, because it's only efficient. In her motion in part No. 76 calls on Mrs Leijten to arrange for the prosecution to consider whether administrative or criminal proceedings are to be carried out in the event of suspicion of fraud. The protocol shows that there is a joint consultation, involving everyone in the chain involved: ISZW, the IGZ, the FIOD and the Public Prosecutor. This central selection consultation shall be chaired by the Office. The prosecution is also called upon in that consultation, because the prosecution must assess the cases in which it intends to proceed with criminal proceedings. I think we've done so well, and that's why I advise against adopting the motion. In the motion in part No. 77 call on Mrs Leijten and Mrs Bruins Slot to make public to the government which health insurers are underperforming in the field of controls and the fight against fraud. That is not public information, but information on the basis of which the NZa supervises. I will look into the extent to which I can obtain information on a voluntary basis, because it is important for us to be able to give a good picture of this. I am therefore not authorised to disclose this information, but I would nevertheless like to pay maximum attention to this request in the progress report. However, I advise against the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u151	The NZa considers it necessary, according to the letter of the Chamber, to see point 5 "Improving ex post control', which a number of insurers now underperforming in the field of controls rapidly improves its performance. If this is noted in that letter, then what is against just giving us that information?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u152	The supervisor supervises a lot of aspects that in principle do not need to become public. In the next progress report, I will also report on the situation. I have just promised that I will see if I can report more at individual level on what has happened there in the next progress report.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u153	So in May we can know, but not in February. That's a little crazy. We are not only looking for good measures, but also for concrete information on what exactly is going on: naming-and-shaming. The health insurance companies play a crucial role and if they are underperforming, we must not let them get away with it. It is substandard and therefore the NZa considers it necessary to adopt this recommendation. I therefore ask the Minister once again to ask the NZa to make this information public.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u154	I tried to meet Mrs Leijten by taking a rather unusual step in response to her request to include this information in the next progress report. I think she reacts rather wonderfully to that. Because I can't just claim that information. Mrs Leijten responded by saying: why can you not make that information available in February but in May? The next performance moment of the health insurance companies is not yet there! That's what you do with preliminary reports. We are talking about the previous one, and when we talk about the next one, you have the results of the research we are doing now. Mr. Chairman. I'm deceiving the motion in part No. 77 so, but I will try to meet the applicants' desire to obtain more information at insurance level. I will look into what is possible within my powers to publish the information requested.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u155	I see the Minister's positive intention. Maybe I can help her with this. The Dutch Healthcare Authority also has a policy rule on disclosure, BR/AL-0014. She writes that under the Health Organisation Act and the Public Administration Act, she has the power to make decisions which it takes public. So it looks like the NZa can actually do this. So perhaps the Minister could ask the NZa the open question as to whether she is prepared to do so. Perhaps she could let us know the answer before the motion is put to the vote. Then she'll just make the request.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u156	I have said that I am doing everything within my powers to ensure that information is included in the next progress report. Then you ask me to do everything within my powers. I've already indicated that I'm doing what's within my jurisdiction. The NZa is an independent Zbo. She's about what she does and what she doesn't. What lies within my powers to give more insight at individual insurers level, I will do so. I already promised.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u157	I can see the Minister's mistaking my interruption. I was just trying to support her in what she said. The Dutch Healthcare Authority has a policy for this and apparently also has the space to do so. So I understand the Minister is going to ask the NZa if she wants to make this public?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u158	I have indicated that within my powers I will do what I can. A question to the NZa is included, but the motion calls on the government to make something public. I can't. I've indicated that I'm going to make an effort to give maximum insight. Mr. Chairman. The next motion is Mrs Klever's motion in part No. 78. It invites the government to ensure that every euro detected in fraud is returned to the premium payer in the form of a lower care premium. I have a number of comments to make on this motion. Firstly, the operative part is not correct, because I do not see that billions of euros are lost because of fraud. We have an investigation that does not give rise to this. Secondly, the request states that this money must be returned in the form of a lower care premium. Every euro must indeed return, but this can also be done in the form of better care or an innovative project, for example. In that the health insurance provider has a certain freedom. I believe that this motion has been tabled before, but unfortunately I cannot leave it to the Chamber. I'm dissuading the motion. The motion by Mrs Klever and Mrs Gerbrands on item No. 79 considers that a reporting obligation will help to detect more fraudulent cases. In principle, we are not very far from each other, when you talk about standards and values and about morality. I think you have a moral duty to report care fraud when you see it. However, I do not know whether a reporting obligation will result in more notifications. The proposers say so. In different areas of care we do have a reporting code, for example in the area of child abuse. We do not have a reporting obligation there, but we do have a reporting code. It says what we expect from each other when we find child abuse. Perhaps we will get closer when I undertake to investigate whether such a code of conduct will help and work in a normal manner, in the sense that it is clear that we do not accept fraud, that we believe that someone should report fraud, that we therefore have this code and that we believe that we should act by this method. A notification obligation goes too far for me, but if it is made "meldcode" I am excited about the idea of investigating this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u159	Thank you for this commitment. I will indeed change it to "Login Code." Can the Minister indicate what period it thinks it could have investigated and realised this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u160	I can check a code. Before the summer I come up with a result or, if so, how we can possibly do it. Then I've had the conversations and I'll send the Chamber my response. Mrs Bruins' motion for a resolution and Mrs Dik-Faber's motion for a resolution 81 is unnecessary. The NZa does this as a supervisor, but we are also constantly in conversation with the party concerned in chain, not only with health insurance companies, but also with the Public Prosecutor and with ISSW. We make agreements to deploy sufficient capacity.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u161	And your judgment?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u162	Needless to say. In his motion in part No. 83 asks Mr Rutte to examine the possibilities for introducing last resort insurance. I've already given my argument. It is well known that I am not very enthusiastic about this in advance, also in view of the experience with previous insurance. I have no objection to an investigation and for that reason I leave the judgment to the Chamber. Mrs Dijkstra has asked whether enough has been done in the meantime, until the plan of action. A lot is happening. Health insurers have also recently started new actions, in particular on research, to see whether they can work together and even whether they can set up a unit together. It is not that we go from progress reporting to progress reporting or plan of action. Each time something comes out that we actually introduce. I'm sure I can sense that urgency. If there is anything we can do today, we will not leave it until tomorrow. I'm sorry, too. Not for nothing have I asked the NZa for this investigation. I thought I'd get a clearer picture of it. I think it is a pity and I expected more of it, but that has also been reflected in my response today. Healthcare insurers The Netherlands does not receive all the information from its members. These are private agreements they make themselves. However, the NZa gets everything and must also get everything based on the Health Insurance Act. If it does not, action can be taken. In the annual accounts process, the bottom stone has been brought to the fore. I don't know if there's been any fraud, because I don't know what the NZa's up to. It's a ZBO, and as a supervisor, of course, she never reports me on business. So maybe something came up that she's working on, but I don't know. If something comes up that's a mistake or something more, it has to be discussed in the CSO. That's where it's gonna be decided if the D.A.'s gonna do anything about it. As the Chamber knows, my name is not on the cc list for the agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u163	I quoted the hospitals myself. They've established that. I assume that the Minister is getting signals about this sort of thing in the administrative consultation, but that does not appear to be the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u164	The hospitals can see that, but I have always said again and again that the NZa is not bound by an auditor's or hospital's finding. The NZa has a stand-alone judgment and if she sees something that amazes her, if she dives further into it and brings it into the CSO, I don't know anything about it. I'll never be informed of that. They are always routes that operate outside the Minister and the Ministry in the context of supervision. We have had intense discussions about the DB agencies. Hospitals themselves have put in place a stricter policy towards DB agencies. That's a good thing. The NZa must also ensure that no tricks of scam are passed on. That is the responsibility of the NZa, but the hospitals themselves have already taken measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u165	Mr. Chairman. For me, one question and two motions remain. The remaining question was asked by Mr Van 't Wout. He asks if disciplinary law can be applied to fraudulent doctors. I thought the Minister had spoken about this for a while. Financial carelessness is indeed covered by the second disciplinary standard. That means that doctors can also be brought under disciplinary law for that reason. Health insurers are competent to exercise disciplinary law. A report has indicated that this can be done more actively, and we will therefore bring that instrument of disciplinary law to the attention of health insurers in the fight against fraud so that it can be used more actively. In the motion in part No. 80 the government is asked to draw up a plan for combating malicious agencies before the summer recess. In view of my commitments, I consider this motion to be a policy support. I do not have the illusion that we can make it completely impossible, but I would like to do so, so we have to look into whether we can do so. I leave the judgment to the Chamber on that point. In the motion in part No. 82 the government is invited to act in consultation with the health offices in order to arrive at a joint approach to the fight against fraud in kind care. I'm being called to talk, and I want to talk. I would point out that, in a formal sense, the care authority has oversight over the health offices. I cannot and will not take up the tasks of the healthcare authority on this point, which does not mean that the discussion on the joint approach is very useful and necessary. I'll leave the verdict to the Chamber. Mrs Dik-Faber has tabled a motion on item No. 84. I made a commitment to Mr Van 't Wout to suspend pgbs while people there can do nothing. I am now being asked to make an effort to ensure that pgbs are not suspended. However, this cannot be said in general. For example, fraud could be involved. In view of my other commitment and given the duty of care agencies to ensure continuity of care, I consider this motion superfluous. I don't recommend taking it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u166	The vote on motions for resolutions will take place on Tuesday. Thank you all for taking part in the debate.
